ARTICLE III. - UNSAFE BUILDINGS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Ordinances relating to repair, closing and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation or buildings or structures that imperil health, safety or morals, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-11; municipal ordinances relating to unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq.

Sec. 11-220. - Unsafe buildings defined.
All buildings or structures within the corporate limits of the city which have any or all of the following defects shall be deemed to be unsafe buildings:
(1)
Buildings which, exclusive of the foundation, show 33 percent or more, of damage or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50 percent of damage or deterioration of a nonsupporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
(2)
Buildings which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs, or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose for which it is used, or intended to be used;
(3)
Buildings which have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes, so as to have become dangerous to life or the general health and welfare of the occupants thereof, or the people of the city;
(4)
Buildings which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that they are unfit for human habitation, or are likely to cause sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the health, safety, or general welfare of those living therein, or may live therein;
(5)
Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings who live or may live therein;
(6)
Buildings which have inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic, or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or other means of communication;
(7)
Buildings which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall and injure members of the public or property;
(8)
Buildings which, because of their condition, are unsafe, unsanitary, or dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of the people of the city;
(9)
Buildings which exist in violation of any provision of the building code of this city, or any provisions of the fire prevention code or any other ordinance of the city, so as to constitute a nuisance, and to be unsafe, unsanitary, or dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of the people of the city.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.010; Ord. No. 548, § 1, 5-12-1980)
Sec. 11-221. - Unsafe buildings as nuisances.
All unsafe buildings as defined herein are declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired, vacated, or demolished as provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.020; Ord. No. 548, § 2, 5-12-1980)
Sec. 11-222. - Duties of owners.
It is the duty of the owner of every dwelling, building, structure or property within the city to construct and maintain such dwelling, building, structure, or property in conformance with applicable codes in force within the city, or such ordinances which regulate and prohibit activities on property and which declare it to be a public nuisance to construct or maintain any dwelling, building, structure or property in violation of such codes or ordinances.
Sec. 11-223. - Duties of building inspector.
(a)
The building inspector or assistant building inspector of the city is specifically charged with the responsibility for the enforcement of this article and upon finding, within the corporate limits of the city, an unsafe building as defined herein, shall cause an inspection to be made of such building, and if the same is found to be unsafe as defined herein, shall make a written report of the conditions and defects of such building and such evidence as may be available to the clerk of the city. When such report is filed with the clerk of the city, the clerk shall immediately give notice to the owner and the tenant and/or tenants occupying the same by United States mail at their last known address, as shown by the tax and/or utility records of the city, that a report has been filed and that the report will be referred by the clerk to the mayor and council not less than 15 days from the date of the notice.
(b)
The building inspector at the time such report is filed with the clerk of the city shall specifically in the report point out defects in the building which should be repaired, shall specify whether the same is unsafe for human habitation and/or shall recommend the steps which in his opinion should be taken to remedy the conditions found to exist so that the building will no longer be unsafe, as defined herein.
(c)
Upon the expiration of ten days from the date of notice to the owner and tenants as provided herein, the clerk shall refer the building inspector's report to the mayor and council, together with the response of the owner and/or tenants, if any, and the report, together with the response of the owner and/or tenants shall be considered by the mayor and council at its next regular meeting thereafter. If, after consideration of the report and evidence of the building inspector and the response, if any, of the owner and/or tenants of the building concerned, the mayor and council shall determine that reasonable cause to proceed exists, the mayor and council shall then order that a hearing be held at a regular meeting of the mayor and council within not less than ten days, nor more than 60 days, to determine whether the building described in the building inspector's report is an unsafe building, as defined herein. The owners of such building and the tenants, if any, shall be served with a copy of such notice of hearing not less than ten days prior to the date fixed for such hearing. The owner of such building shall be served personally with such notice, if they reside or can be found within the city limits of the city. If the owner lives outside the city, said owner shall be served by certified or registered mail. If there is no return receipt received by the city, then such owners shall be served by publishing a copy of such notice, addressed to them, in the newspaper having general circulation in the county in which sheriff's advertisements appear, once a week for four weeks immediately preceding the date of such hearing or a copy of such notice shall be mailed to such owners at their last address as shown by the tax records of the city, at least ten days prior to such hearing, by registered or certified mail. The tenants in such building, if any, shall be served by leaving a copy with an adult residing in such building.
(d)
At the hearing before the mayor and council, as related in subsection (c) of this section, all interested parties shall have the right to be heard and be represented by counsel, and the burden shall be upon the building inspector to prove that such building is an unsafe building, as defined herein, and that certain unsafe conditions exist which should be remedied, and/or that the building is unsafe to an extent that the same should be demolished, as herein provided.
(e)
After hearing evidence at the hearing, the mayor and council shall by resolution issue an order based upon the evidence produced at such hearing, and if by such order they find and determine such building to be an unsafe building, as defined herein, such order shall specify the acts and things to be done to such building or in or about such building, including demolition, if necessary, to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of the people of the city and the persons who live or may live in, or who may inhabit such building.
(f)
Further, in the event the mayor and council determine that such building is unsafe and/or that the same should be demolished, the owner of such building shall be given a reasonable time within which to repair the same or demolish the same as the case may be, and upon the failure of the owner to comply with such order within the period of time, the mayor and council shall order the building inspector, or such other proper official of the city, to repair and/or demolish the same, as required by such order, and assess the total cost thereof against the owner, as hereinafter provided.
(g)
If the mayor and council, pursuant to the hearing herein provided for, shall determine that the building is an unsafe building, and if they also find that the same is unsafe for human habitation, the tenants and/or inhabitants of such building shall be immediately ordered to vacate the same, and the same shall be posted as an unsafe building, and all persons prohibited from entering therein, except for the purpose of restoring, repairing or demolishing the same, pursuant to an order entered hereunder.
(h)
In the event that the repairing and/or demolition of such building as required herein is performed by the building inspector, or such other proper official of the city, such official, upon completion of such work, shall file with the clerk of the city an itemization of the cost of such work, and the clerk is ordered immediately to issue an execution against the owner of such property for the total cost of such work, which execution shall constitute a lien against such real estate as of the date of the resolution ordering such work to be done, and which execution shall thereafter be enforced and collected in the same manner as an execution or fi. fa. for unpaid taxes for the city and such execution shall rank in dignity second only to taxes of the city.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.030; Ord. No. 548, § 3, 5-12-1980)
