PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the city, as adopted by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 412), page 5030. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - GENERAL DEFINITIONS, CITY LIMITS AND CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1.01. - Charter [established].
This Act shall constitute the whole Charter of the City of Grantville, Georgia, repealing and replacing the Charter provided by an Act making Grantville, in Coweta County, a town, approved August 1, 1912 (Ga. Laws 1912, page 925), as amended, particularly by an Act approved February 18, 1959 (Ga. Laws 1959, page 2041), making Grantville, in Coweta County, a City. The City of Grantville, Georgia, in the County of Coweta, and the inhabitants thereof, are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate by the name and style of the City of Grantville, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the Courts of law and all such actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Sec. 1.02. - Definitions.
As used in this Act the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
"City" shall mean the City of Grantville, Georgia.
(b)
"Councilman" shall mean a person elected to the city council as provided in this Act.
(c)
"Member of the council" shall mean the mayor and each councilman.
(d)
"Nonpartisan" shall mean without any designation of candidates and members or candidates of any state, national party or organization.
(e)
"At large" shall mean the entire city as distinguished from representation by wards or other districts.
(f)
"Public way" shall mean any land used as a passageway including but not limited to streets, roads, highways, expressways, freeways, boulevards, avenues, parkways, alleys, lanes, sidewalks, walks, bridges, viaducts, subways, underpasses, tunnels, and other thoroughfares, and, including the right of way of such public ways.
(g)
"Code" shall mean any publication or compilation of rules, regulations, specification standards, limitations or requirements by an agency of the federal or state government or by a municipality, by a trade association or other organization generally recognized as an authority in its field of activity.
(h)
"Agency" shall mean any office, court, utility board, commission, institution, or other organization in charge of administering any public function or municipal affair of the city.
(i)
"Officer" shall mean and include the mayor, councilmen, members of boards and commissions, and any other person classified as public officers by the laws or judicial decisions of this state. An "officer" as herein defined shall fill an office and an employee shall fill a position of employment.
(j)
"Elector" shall mean a person residing within the city who is qualified to vote therein.
(k)
The "masculine" shall include the feminine, and the singular shall include the plural and vice versa.
(l)
The word "shall" is mandatory, may is permissive.
Sec. 1.03. - City limits.
The city limits shall be:
(a)
Three-fourths of a mile in every direction from the freight depot of the Atlanta and West Point Railroad as now located. (Georgia Laws 1912, P. 925);
(b)
In addition to the area provided for above, the corporate limits of the City of Grantville shall embrace the following tract of land: Begin at the point of intersection of the existing City Limits line with the South line of Land Lot 269 and from said beginning point run thence Westerly along the South line of Land Lot 269, 270, and 271 to the West line of Land 271; thence Northerly to the Northwest corner of Land Lot 271; thence Easterly along the North line of Land Lot 271 to the East line of Land Lot 271; thence Northerly along the East line of Land Lot 242 to the North line of Land Lot 242; thence Westerly along the North line of Land Lot 242 to the West line of Land Lot 242; thence Northerly along the West line of Land Lot 239 to the Northwest corner of Land Lot 239; thence Easterly along the North line of Land Lots 239, 238, 237 and 236, to the Northeast corner of property owned by Hall in Land Lot 236; thence Southerly along the East line of the property of Hall 1000 feet; thence Westerly on a line parallel with the North line of Land Lot 236 to the West line of Land Lot 235; thence Northerly along the West line of Land Lot 235 to the North line of Land Lot 235; thence Easterly along the North line of Land Lot 235, 234, 233, to the Northeast corner of Land Lot 233; thence Southerly along the East line of Land Lot 233 to the South line of Land Lot 233; thence Westerly along the South line of Land Lot 233 to the West line of Land Lot 233; thence Southerly along the West line of Land Lot 247 to the Southeast corner of Land Lot 247; thence Westerly along the South line of Land Lot 247 and 246, to the Southwest corner of Land Lot 246; thence Southerly along the East line of Land Lot 268 to the property of Jeter; thence Westerly along the property line of Jeter to the existing City Limits line; thence Southwesterly along the existing City Limits line to property of Maynard Jeter; thence Easterly 420 feet to the Northeast corner of property of Maynard Jeter; thence Southeasterly along the property of Maynard Jeter, 420 feet; thence Westerly along the South line of the property of Maynard Jeter, to the right of way of a county road; thence Northwesterly along the right of way of said county road 420 feet, more or less, to the Northwest corner of the property of Maynard Jeter and the existing City Limits of the City of Grantville.
The land-use restrictions in effect on January 1, 1973, (Ga. Laws 1973, Page 3465), for the above tract of land provided for by the governing authority of Coweta County shall remain in effect for said tract until such time as the City of Grantville shall adopt a comprehensive land-use and zoning plan, and thereby provide for other or different land-use within said tract.
(Ga. Laws 1973, Page 3465)
Sec. 1.04. - Corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city to be exercised by the mayor and council, shall include the following:
(a)
To levy and provide for the assessment and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation.
(b)
To levy and provide for the collection of the license taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions.
(c)
To appropriate and borrow money to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditures of money for any municipal purpose or matter of national or state interest.
(d)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
(e)
To condemn property inside or outside the city for present or future use under the applicable provisions of Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], and its amendments, or under other applicable public acts.
(f)
To acquire, operate and dispose of public utilities, subject to the provisions of the applicable general laws.
(g)
To grant franchises, or make contracts for public utilities and public services. The mayor and council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor; provided, however, nothing in this subsection shall be construed to apply to public utility companies regulated by the Public Service Commission.
(h)
To regulate the rates and services of public utilities insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Public Service Commission or other similar state or federal agency having jurisdiction in such matters.
(i)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements, inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, for such purposes, property may be taken under the applicable provisions of Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], as amended, or other applicable public acts.
(j)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(k)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse. Charges may be imposed to cover the cost of such services which, if unpaid, shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property taxes, and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for property taxes.
(l)
To define, regulate and prohibit any acts, practice, conduct, or the use of property, detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
(m)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building construction and repair; electrical wiring and equipment; gas installation and equipment; plumbing; and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(n)
To regulate and license weights and measures.
(o)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the recorder's court shall work out such sentences in the streets or any public works of the city, or in a city workhouse, established for this purpose, as provided by ordinance; or the council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to the county workhouse or jail, by agreement with the appropriate county officers.
(p)
To regulate and license or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of the same in violation of any ordinance or lawful order and for their disposal by sale, gift, or humane killing, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance.
(q)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city, to limit the number of such vehicles, to require the operation thereof to be licensed, to require liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts described by ordinance, and to regulate and rent parking spaces and public ways for the use of such vehicles.
(r)
To levy and provide for the collection of special improvements.
(s)
To provide that violation of any ordinance, rule or regulation or order shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(t)
To exercise and enjoy all powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants, and all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Act as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein, no enumeration of particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be an addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the Constitution or applicable public acts of the state.
Sec. 1.05. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules, and regulations now in force in said city, not inconsistent with this Act are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the mayor and council of the city.
ARTICLE II. - ELECTIONS, MAYOR, COUNCIL AND CLERK

Sec. 2.01. - Registration of electors.
The registration of electors of the City of Grantville shall be according to the Municipal Election Code of the State of Georgia, Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.]
The city shall provide for the following matters pursuant to the Municipal Election Code:
(1)
Compensation of poll officers;
(2)
Voter registration system;
(3)
Procedures for deciding elector challenges;
(4)
Selecting polling places;
(5)
Remuneration for polling place, rent, heat, etc.;
(6)
Specifying dates of elections.
Sec. 2.02. - Qualifications and election of mayor and councilmembers.
(a)
There is created the office of mayor of the City of Grantville. There are created four (4) council posts of the City of Grantville, which shall be known as Council Posts 1, 2, 3, and 4. Each and every council post shall be for the city at large.
(b)
The mayor and the councilmembers shall be elected by the qualified electors 18 years of age or over and may be qualified as a candidate for mayor or councilmember by submitting to the city clerk a notice of candidacy at least 15 days prior to the election. In case of a candidacy for councilmember, the candidate shall give the number of the post for which he or she is qualifying as a candidate.
(c)
The terms of the two councilmembers from Post 3 and Post 4, respectively, who were elected in 1995 shall end on December 31, 1997, and when their respective successors are elected and qualified. Their respective successors shall be elected on Tuesday following the first Monday in November, 1997, and shall take office on the first day of January following their election. Thereafter, successors shall be elected quadrennially in odd-numbered years and shall take office on the first day of January following their election.
(d)
The terms of the mayor and the two councilmembers from Posts 1 and 2, respectively, who were elected in 2018 shall end on December 31, 2022, and when their respective successors are elected and qualified. Their respective successors shall be elected on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November, 2022, and shall take office on the first day of January following their election, and when their respective successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be elected quadrennially in odd-numbered years and shall take office on the first day of January following their election.
(e)
The terms of office of mayor and councilmember shall begin at 12:01 A.M., on the first day of January following their election, and they shall serve until their successors have been elected and qualified.
(f)
Those candidates seeking election for the office of mayor and council who receive a plurality of the votes cast shall be deemed elected.
(1993 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 129), p. 4351; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 144), p. 3865; Res. No. 2017-01 , § 1, 1-23-2017)
Sec. 2.03. - Governing body.
A mayor and four councilmen shall constitute the city council, in which is vested all the corporate, legislative and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this Act. The council shall be the final judge of the election and qualification of its members. The council shall hold regular meetings at a stated time and place, as provided by ordinance. The council shall meet in special sessions on written call of the mayor, or any two councilmen. This written call may be served on the other members personally, or left at their residences, at least 12 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice of a special meeting shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called. Only the business stated in the written call may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent by all members of the council. The council shall exercise its powers in public meetings. A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum. The council may by ordinance adopt rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business, including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of the absent members. The council may examine witnesses, order the production of books and papers, and discipline persons for disorderly or contemptuous behavior in the presence of the council.
The mayor and council shall have the power at their discretion to appoint a city manager who shall serve at the city council's pleasure. Said city manager shall be the principal managerial aide to the mayor and shall perform such duties, as may be assigned to him by the mayor and council.
Sec. 2.04. - Compensation of mayor and council.
The council may determine by ordinance the annual salary of the mayor and councilmen provided that any salary increase shall not be effective until after the taking of office of those elected at the next regular municipal election. The mayor and councilmen may receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
Sec. 2.05. - Powers and duties of mayor.
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council, shall have a vote only in the cause of a tie, shall be the ceremonial head of the city, shall sign ordinances and resolutions for their final passage, shall sign deeds, bonds, and contracts when authorized by the council to do so, shall be the officer to accept process against the city, and shall perform all other duties imposed by this Act and ordinances not inconsistent with this Act. Also, see Section 3.03, Administrative duties of mayor.
Sec. 2.06. - Mayor's power to veto legislation.
Within 96 hours after the adjournment of any council meeting, the city clerk shall present to the mayor the record of proceedings of the meeting and all ordinances and resolutions adopted at the meeting. The mayor, within seven (7) days of the receipt of an ordinance or resolution, shall return it to the city clerk, with or without his approval, or with his veto. If an ordinance or resolution is vetoed, the mayor shall attach a written statement explaining the reason for his veto. Ordinances or resolutions vetoed by the mayor shall be considered at the next regular meeting of the council, and the council may pass the ordinance over the veto by the affirmative vote of three of its members. The effective date of an ordinance passed over the mayor's veto shall not be less than 15 days after the date of the final passage. The mayor's veto shall extend to disapproving or reducing the individual appropriation items in the budget or any ordinance or resolution, except appropriations for auditing or investigating any part of the executive branch. The mayor shall not have the power to veto any emergency ordinance.
Sec. 2.07. - Mayor pro tempore.
The council at the first regular meeting after the newly elected councilmen have taken office following each election shall elect from its membership a mayor pro tempore for a term of one year. In the event that no mayor pro tempore is elected at such first regular meeting, or within five ballots taken within ten days following the first meeting, the councilman who received the highest number of votes when he was last elected shall become mayor pro tempore. The mayor pro tempore shall perform the duties of the mayor during his absence or his inability to act, and shall act as mayor until the next regular election for the office of mayor, in which case a new mayor pro tempore shall be elected by a majority of votes of the council.
Sec. 2.08. - Vacancy in office of mayor or councilman.
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilman resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, has been continuously disabled for a period of six months so as to prevent him from discharging the duties of his office, or is convicted of a felony in office, a felony in violation of this act or a violation of the election laws of the state. The council shall appoint a qualified person to fill such vacancy until the next election. In the case of a vacancy in the office of mayor, a special election shall be called and handled in the manner of general elections as hereinbefore provided within 45 days after the vacancy occurs.
Sec. 2.09. - Restrictions on council.
The Council shall act in all manners as a body and no member shall seek individually to influence the official acts of the Mayor or any other officer or employee of the City, or direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his removal from, any office or position of employment, or to interfere in any way with the performance of the duties by the Mayor or other officers or employees. Each member of the Council shall chair a committee and serve on two other committees. It shall be the duty of each such committee to oversee the activities of and to establish policies for the operation of one department of the city government; provided, however, that neither the committee nor the chairman thereof shall have any authority to direct the day to day activities of the members of such department of city government. Furthermore, neither the committee nor its chairman shall interfere in any way with the Mayor's, the City Manager's, or the individual department heads' authority to direct the activities of the individual employees in each department of city government.
(1988 Ga. Laws, p. 5185)
Sec. 2.10. - City clerk.
The city clerk shall be appointed by the mayor and council and shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all the records of the council; attending meetings of the council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, on each motion considered; preparing and certifying by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the mayor and council.
Sec. 2.11. - City legislation.
A.
Any action of the council having a regulatory or penal effect or having the force and effect of law shall be done by ordinance. The affirmative vote of a majority of the Council present and voting shall be required to pass any motion, resolution or ordinance.
B.
No ordinance, except in the case of an emergency ordinance, shall be adopted until one (1) of the two (2) following procedures is followed:
(i)
The full written text of the proposed ordinance is posted for public inspection at two (2) consecutive council meetings, not less than seven (7) days and not more than forty-five (45) days apart. The posting of the ordinance shall be publicly announced at the first meeting at which the text of the ordinance is posted. The text of the ordinance shall be available at City Hall for public inspection after the first meeting. The ordinance may be adopted at the second or subsequent meeting; or the adoption of the ordinance may be continued from meeting to meeting upon public announcement at the second meeting or at subsequent meetings, of the Council's intention to continue the vote on the adoption of the ordinance until the next Council's meeting, be it the next meeting called or regular. The ordinance may be amended or modified by the Council at the public meeting at which the ordinance is adopted; or
(ii)
At lest five (5) days but not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the meeting of the council at which the ordinance shall be considered for adoption, the City Clerk shall cause to be published in the official legal organ of Coweta County or in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Grantville a notice of the proposed adoption of the ordinance, stating the purpose of the ordinance, the date, time and place of this proposed adoption, and the fact that the full written text of the proposed ordinance shall be available at City Hall for public inspection during regular business hours of City Hall. The ordinance may be adopted at the meeting as advertised, or the adoption of the ordinance may be continued from meeting to meeting, upon public announcement at any meeting of the Council's intention to continue the vote on the adoption of the ordinance until the Council's next meeting, be it the next meeting called or regular. The ordinance may be amended or modified by the Council at the public meeting at which the ordinance is adopted.
C.
When an emergency exists affecting life, health, property, safety or public welfare and expediency is required, an ordinance containing a statement of the facts and reasons for the emergency may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is first introduced if approved by at least three (3) members of the Council. No ordinance relating to thee levy of taxes, grant, renewal, extension of a franchise, regulation of the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorizing the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within thirty (30) days shall be adopted as an emergency ordinance.
D.
The City Clerk shall number ordinances consecutively in the order of their final adoption and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose and the City Clerk shall do likewise for resolutions using a separate series of numbers and a second record book. The original copies of all ordinances and resolutions shall be filed and preserved by the City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 03-2007, 4-23-2007)
Sec. 2.12. - Rules and regulations.
The council may by ordinance authorize officers and agencies of the city to promulgate formal rules and regulations within their respective jurisdictions, subject to such restrictions and standards of guidance as the council may prescribe. No such formal rule or regulation shall take effect until it is filed with the city clerk, who shall file and preserve the original copy in his office. Amendments of such rules and regulations shall be accomplished only by setting forth complete sections or subsections in their amended form.
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Sec. 3.01. - Departments.
The city government shall be organized into the following departments:
Police Department
Utility Department
Administrative Department
Street and Public Works Department
The utility department will be composed of the gas system, water system, and electrical system.
Unless and until otherwise provided by ordinance, the mayor shall, on the second Monday in January of each year, appoint a committee composed of the councilmen duly qualified and elected to oversee the functions of the various departments.
Sec. 3.02. - Planning commission.
There shall be a Planning Commission appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Grantville comprised of five from the city at large. The planning commission so appointed shall serve as a recommending body to the mayor and council and shall carry out those duties as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 3.03. - Administrative duties of mayor.
The Mayor shall be the executive head of the city government responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules and regulations, ordinances, and for franchises in the city and the city attorney shall take such legal actions as the Mayor may direct for such purposes. He shall have the authority to control the work of all offices and employees of the city and shall further have the authority to relieve any employee of his duties without pay for up to seven (7) days for failure to properly perform those duties or for failure to follow lawful instructions. The Mayor shall submit to the Council annual budgets, reports and such other information as he may deem necessary or the Council may require. He shall have authority to make allotments of funds within the limits of appropriations and no expenditures shall be made without his approval. If no other employee or official is designated as purchasing agent, he shall act as purchasing agent for the city. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such other powers and duties as may be provided by Ordinance not inconsistent with this act.
(1988 Ga. Laws, p. 5193)
Sec. 3.04. - City manager.
Should the post of city manager be filled, the city manager shall be appointed by the mayor and council who shall be the chief managerial aide to the mayor. He shall have the authority to appoint, promote, demote, transfer, suspend and remove all employees and to direct and control their work except as otherwise provided in this Act. With the approval of the mayor and council, he shall be responsible for preparing for the mayor and council annual budget reports and such other information as the mayor and council may deem necessary and require. He shall be the purchasing agent for the city.
The city manager shall notify the mayor and city council, as soon as feasible, of all work being performed on city property save for ordinary repair and maintenance activities, identifying who is performing the work and the funding source for such work.
( Ord. No. 2019-15 , 1-23-2020)
Sec. 3.05. - City attorney.
The mayor shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party, shall be the prosecuting officer in the recorder's court unless a prosecutor is separately appointed pursuant to Section 3.06 of the charter, and shall advise the council, mayor and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs.
The city council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized, by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party, shall be the prosecuting officer in the recorder's court unless a prosecutor is separately appointed pursuant to Section 3.06 of the charter, and shall advise the council, mayor and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs.
(Ord. No. 01-2013, 1-14-2013; Ord. No. 02-2014, 2-10-2014 ; Ord. No. 2019-04 , 6-17-2019)
Sec. 3.06. - Recorder's court.
a)
Generally. There shall be a court to be known as the "Municipal Court of the City of Grantville, Georgia."
b)
Chief judge, associate judge.
(1)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge appointed by the Mayor and Council and such part-time, full-time or stand-by associate judges as may be appointed by the Mayor and Council.
(2)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge of the municipal court unless that person is twenty-one (21) years old and licensed to practice law in the State of Georgia.
(3)
Compensation for judges shall be fixed by the Mayor and Council.
(4)
Judges may be removed by the Mayor and Council.
c)
Convening. The municipal court shall convene no less than once a month at a time and in a place designated by the Mayor and Council.
d)
Jurisdiction; powers.
(1)
The municipal court shall try and punish all violations of city ordinances or laws.
(2)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish for contempt in accordance with general state law.
(3)
The judge of the municipal court shall have the power and authority to impose upon the violator of any law or ordinance, for each violation thereof, the following punishments:
(i)
A fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
(ii)
Imprisonment for a period of not more than twelve (12) months;
(iii)
Community service work; or
(iv)
Any one or all of these punishments when the facts of the case justify such punishments;
provided, however, that each contempt of municipal court shall be punishable either by imposition of a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for a period of time not exceeding thirty (30) days or both.
(4)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts.
(5)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizance to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as security for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail to assure appearance and fails to appear at the time fixed for trial, that person's bond shall be forfeited by the judge, and an execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and the defendant's sureties with a rule nisi, at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. If property or cash is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if said defendant fails to appear at the time and the place fixed for the trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared to be forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(6)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(7)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all persons necessary to dispose properly of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by general state law.
(8)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of this city granted by general state laws to municipal courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
e)
Appeals. Parties dissatisfied with the decision of the municipal court may petition for a writ of certiorari to the superior court as provided by law.
f)
Rules for court. With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court. Such rules or regulations shall be with the city clerk and made available for public inspection.
g)
Court Clerk. The Mayor and Council shall appoint a Clerk of Municipal Court, along with any such Deputy Clerks, as they may deem appropriate.
h)
Prosecutor. The Mayor and Council may appoint a Prosecutor in the Municipal Court, along with any such Deputy Prosecutors, as they may deem appropriate.
(Ord. No. 09-2009, 12-14-2009)
Editor's note— Recorder's courts have been renamed municipal courts pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1.
Sec. 3.07. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the Mayor and city council by ordinance shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, alter, consolidate, or leave vacant all nonelective officers, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, the heads of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointed officers and department heads shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance.
(d)
There shall be a head of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each department head shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the Mayor or city manager, if one is appointed, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of that department head's department or agency.
(e)
All appointed officers and department heads under the supervision of the Mayor, or city manager if one is appointed, shall be nominated by the Mayor or city manager with confirmation of appointment by the city council. All appointed officers and department heads shall be employees at will and subject to removal or suspension at any time at the recommendation of the city manager or mayor, with confirmation by the city council, unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
(Ord. No. 03-2010, 4-26-2010)
Sec. 3.08. - Personnel policies.
All employees serve at will and may be removed from office at any time by the Mayor and city council unless otherwise provided by ordinance. The council shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of any position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected; and
(4)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of the personnel affairs of the City of Grantville.
(1988 Ga. Laws, p. 5189; Ord. No. 02-2007, 4-23-2007; Ord. No. 03-2010, 4-26-2010)
Sec. 3.09. - Oath of office.
Before a person takes any office in the city government, he shall take, subscribe to, and file with the city clerk the following oath or affirmation:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution and will obey the laws of the United States and the State of Georgia; that I will, in all respects, observe the provisions of the charter and ordinances of the City of Grantville, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of ___________."
Sec. 3.10. - Official bond.
The mayor and every officer, agent, and employee of the city having duties embracing the receipt, disbursement, custody or handling of money, and other officers and employees, as may be required by ordinance, shall give a fidelity bond or faithful performance bond, as provided by ordinance, with some surety company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia, as surety, in such amount as shall be prescribed by ordinance, all such bonds and sureties hereto shall be subject to approval by the council. The costs of such bonds shall be paid by the city. All such bonds shall be kept in the custody of the city manager or city clerk except that the city manager's (or in the case of the city clerk) bond shall be in the custody of the mayor.
Sec. 3.11. - Political activity prohibited.
No officer or employee of the city, other than the mayor and councilmen, shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any public office. No person shall directly or indirectly give, render, or pay any money, service, or other valuable consideration to any person for or on account of or in connection with any test, appointment, proposed appointment, promotion, or proposed promotion to any office or position of the city government. No person shall orally, by letter, or otherwise, solicit or be in any manner concerned in soliciting any assessment, subscription or contribution for any political party or political purpose from any officer or employee of the city. An officer or employee of the city, other than the mayor and councilmen, shall not make any contribution to the campaign funds of any candidate in any city election, and shall not take any part in the management, affairs, or political campaign of any city election, other than in the exercise of his rights as a citizen to express his opinions and to cast his vote. Any person who by himself or with others willfully or corruptly violates any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine and imprisonment for not more than one year, or a fine of not more than $500.00, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Any person who is convicted under this section shall be ineligible to hold any office or position of employment in the city government for a period of five years thereafter, and if he be an officer or employee at the time of conviction, shall immediately forfeit and vacate the office or position he holds.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 4.01. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of October and shall end on the thirtieth day of September of the next year, but another fiscal year may be fixed by Ordinance for the entire city government or for any utility.
Sec. 4.02. - Preparation and submission of budget.
(a)
The Council shall adopt and operate under an annual balanced budget for the general fund, each special revenue fund, each enterprise or utility fund, and each debt service fund. The annual balanced budget shall be adopted by ordinance or resolution and administered in accordance with this Charter.
(b)
The Council shall adopt and operate under a project-length balanced budget for each capital projects fund in use by the City. The project-length balanced budget shall be adopted by ordinance in the year that the project initially begins and shall be administered in accordance with this section of the City Charter. The project length balanced budget shall appropriate total expenditures for the duration of the capital project.
(c)
A budget ordinance is balanced when the sum of estimated revenues and appropriated fund balances is equal to appropriations.
(d)
Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the Council from adopting a budget for any funds used by the City other than those specifically identified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, including enterprise funds, internal service funds and fiduciary funds.
(e)
The Council may appoint a City Manager who shall function as the budget officer.
(f)
On or before a date fixed by the Council, but not later than sixty (60) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the City Manager shall submit to the Council a proposed operating budget for the next fiscal year. If a City Manager is not appointed the Mayor shall serve as the budget officer.
(g)
The proposed budget shall, at a minimum, be an estimate of the financial requirements at the legal level of control for each fund requiring a budget for the appropriate budget period and shall be in such form and detail, with such supporting information and justifications, as may be prescribed by the budget officer or City Council. The budget document, at a minimum, shall provide, for the appropriate budget period, a statement of the amount budgeted for anticipated revenues by source and the amount budgeted for expenditures at the legal level of control. In accordance with the minimum required legal level of control, the budget document shall, at a minimum, provide a statement of the amount budgeted for expenditures by department for each fund for which a budget is required.
(h)
The proposed budget shall show separately for the general fund, each utility, and each other fund the following:
(i)
revenue and expenditures during the preceding fiscal year;
(ii)
appropriations and estimated revenue and expenditures for the current fiscal year;
(iii)
estimated revenue and expenditures for the next fiscal year;
(iv)
a comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the preceding fiscal year; and
(v)
such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the Mayor and Council Members.
(i)
The Council shall adopt and use such uniform charts of accounts as developed by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs.
(Ord. No. 04-2010, 6-28-2010)
Sec. 4.03. - Public hearing.
(a)
On the day that the proposed budget is submitted to the City Council for consideration, a copy of the budget shall be placed in the Office of the City Clerk, and in a public location convenient to the citizens of the City of Grantville. A copy of the budget shall also be made available, upon request, to the news media.
(b)
A statement advising the residents of the City of Grantville of the availability of the proposed budget shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Grantville. The notice shall be published during the week in which the proposed budget is submitted to the City Council. In addition, the statement shall also advise the residents that a public hearing will be held, at which time any persons wishing to be heard on the budget may appear. The statement shall be a prominently displayed advertisement or news article and shall not be placed in that section of the newspaper where legal notices appear.
(c)
At least one week prior to the meeting of the Mayor and Council at which adoption of the budget ordinance or resolution will be considered, the Mayor and Council shall conduct a public hearing, at which time any persons wishing to be heard on the budget may appear.
(d)
The City shall give notice of the time and place of the budget hearing required in paragraph (c) of this Section at least one week before the budget hearing is held. The notice shall appear in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Grantville. The statement shall be a prominently displayed advertisement or news article and shall not be placed in that section of the newspaper where legal notices appear. The notice required by this paragraph may be included in the statement published pursuant to paragraph (b) in lieu of a separate publication of the notice.
(e)
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude the Mayor and Council from conducting further budget hearings if they deem such hearings necessary and comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(Ord. No. 04-2010, 6-28-2010)
Sec. 4.04. - Action by council on budget.
(a)
The City Council may amend the operating budget proposed by the City Manager or Mayor, except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year, and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, inter-fund transfers, reserves and revenues.
(b)
On a date after the conclusion of the hearing required by Section 4.03(c) of this Charter and before the beginning of the fiscal year, the City Council, by ordinance or resolution shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. If conditions prevent the Council from adopting a budget ordinance or resolution before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the amounts appropriated for operations for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year. The appropriations set out in the budget ordinance or resolution need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department, office or agency.
(c)
Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the Council from amending its budget so as to adapt to changing governmental needs during the budget period. Amendments shall be made as follows, unless otherwise provided by Charter:
(i)
Any increase in appropriation at the legal level of control of the City, whether accomplished through a change in anticipated revenues in any fund or through a transfer of appropriations among departments shall require approval of the Council. Such amendments shall be adopted by ordinance ore resolution.
(ii)
Transfers of appropriations within any fund below the legal level of control shall require only approval of the budget officer or Mayor; and
(iii)
The Council may amend the legal level of control to establish a more detailed level of budgetary control at any time during the budget period. Such amendment shall be adopted by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. No. 04-2010, 6-28-2010)
Sec. 4.05. - Purchasing.
All contracts and purchases shall be made in accordance with the procedure for procurement and for the solicitation and consummation of contracts with the City as established by ordinance.
(Ord. No. 03-2007, 6-25-2007; Ord. No. 01-2014, 2-10-2014 )
Sec. 4.06. - Sale of public property.
The city council may sell or convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by state law and pursuant to any procedures or policies adopted by the council.
(Ord. No. 05-2012, 6-25-2012)
Sec. 4.07. - Annual audit.
The council shall employ a certified public accountant or a registered public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the council, at a time agreed to between him and the council, and shall prepare a summary of the report which shall be posted in a public place designated by the city council.
Sec. 4.08. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, including the capital stock of merchants and public service companies, assessed as of January first in each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the city. The mayor and council by ordinance may elect to use the county assessment or may provide for an independent city assessment as provided by Georgia law, if an independent city assessment is made, a board of tax assessors, consisting of three persons appointed by the council with compensation fixed by ordinance, shall assess property subject to taxation by the city. The mayor and council shall act as a board of equalization and shall hear appeals of taxpayers taken within ten days after the board of tax assessors has sent a notice by ordinary mail of a new or increased assessment, provided that such notice shall not be required on appeals to be taken in the case of initial city assessments that are the same as county assessments, except as otherwise provided in this section. Appeals involving city property assessments may be taken as provided by general laws. The mayor and council acting as the board of equalization may increase or decrease the assessments of all property of the same class by a uniform percentage, in which case individual notices shall not be mailed, but a notice of such action shall be published once in the official city newspaper; such a blanket increase or decrease shall not be subject to appeal.
Sec. 4.09. - Tax levy.
The council shall make a tax levy expressed as a fixed rate per $1,000.00, of assessed valuation, and if no tax levy is made within 90 days prior to the tax due date, the property tax rate in effect the last fiscal year shall continue in effect as the tax rate for the new fiscal year.
Sec. 4.10. - Tax due dates and tax bills.
The due dates of property taxes shall be fixed by ordinance. The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers showing the assessed valuation, amounts of taxes due, tax due dates, and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent after the due date, at which time a penalty of ten percent, shall be added and thereafter such taxes shall be subject to $1.50 collection fee, plus interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum on and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court of record. The city clerk may issue an execution when such taxes become delinquent which may be recorded in the general execution docket of said county.
Sec. 4.11. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The city council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by a police officer of the city under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment date of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those of the federal, state and county taxes.
Sec. 4.12. - Special assessment.
The city may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, sewers or other utility mains and appurtenances against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent 30 days after their due dates shall thereupon be subject to a penalty of 10 percent and shall thereafter be subject to $1.50 collection fee and interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this article for city property taxes.
Sec. 4.13. - Disbursements by check.
All disbursements shall be made by checks signed by the city clerk or such other persons as the mayor and council shall designate in their discretion.
Sec. 4.14. - Official depository.
The council shall designate an official depository or depositories for deposit and safekeeping of the funds of the city, and may require such collateral security as it deems necessary.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Section
this Charter
1973 3465 1.03
1988 5185 2.09
5189 3.08
5193 3.03
1993 129 4351 2.02
1997 144 3865 2.02
  CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE ORDINANCES
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ordinance
Number Date Section Section
this Charter
02-2007  4-23-2007 3.08
03-2007  4-23-2007 2.11
6-25-2007 4.05
09-2009 12-14-2009 3.06
03-2010  4-26-2010 3.07
3.08
04-2010  6-28-2010 4.02
4.03
4.04
05-2012  6-25-2012 4.06
01-2013  1-14-2013 3.05
01-2014  2-10-2014 4.05
02-2014  2-10-2014 3.05
2017-01(Res.)  1-23-2017 1 2.02
2019-04  6-17-2019 3.05
2019-15  1-23-2020 3.04
