ARTICLE XXII. - ADMINISTRATION OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE

Section 22.01. - Administration.
The provisions of these regulations shall be administered by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. No. 2006-5, § 1, 10-24-06; Ord. No. 2008-2, Exh. A, 2-18-08)
Section 22.02. - Establishment of the zoning ordinance and zoning map.
Before enacting the zoning ordinance the governing body shall hold a public hearing thereon, at least 15 but not more than 45 days' notice of which shall be published in the legal county organ, which said notice shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing. No change in, or departure from the text or maps, as certified by the planning commission, shall be made unless such change or departure be first submitted to the planning commission for review and recommendation. The planning commission shall have 30 days within which to submit its report. If the planning commission fails to submit a report within the 30-day period, the governing body may proceed without the recommendation of the planning commission.
(Ord. No. 2006-5, § 1, 10-24-06; Ord. No. 2008-2, Exh. A, 2-18-08)
Section 22.03. - Amendments.
1.
Role of the planning commission. The zoning ordinance and the zoning maps may be amended by the governing body from time to time. No amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by, or shall have been submitted to, the planning commission for review or recommendation. The planning commission shall have 30 days within which to submit its report, said 30 days being measured from the date of the public hearing before the governing body. The recommendation of the planning commission shall be submitted by the secretary of the planning commission to the governing body. If the planning commission fails to submit a report within the 30-day period, the governing body may proceed without the recommendation of the planning commission.
2.
Public hearings. A public hearing shall be conducted on all applications to amend the text of this zoning ordinance or the zoning classification of property. Notice of the public hearing shall be advertised in the legal county organ at least 15 but no more than 45 days prior to the date of the public hearing stating the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing. Additionally, the notice shall include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property, the proposed zoning classification of the property, and the name and address of the applicant, if the rezoning is initiated by a party other than the governing body. A sign containing the same information set forth in the notice shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property not less than 15 days prior to the date of the hearing.
3.
Fees. The established fee for the submittal of an application to change the zoning classification of property shall be collected by the building official's department in advance of the legal advertisement of the application for rezoning. The amount of the fees for submittal of applications for rezoning shall be established by the governing body.
4.
Frequency of zoning applications. An application to change the zoning classification of property may be withdrawn at any time at the discretion of the individual initiating such a request for rezoning, upon the receipt of formal written notice to the governing body. No action for a change in the zoning classification of the same parcel of land shall be initiated by any person more than once every 12 months. Additionally, if the zoning decision of the governing body is for the rezoning of property and the amendment to the zoning ordinance to accomplish the rezoning is defeated by the governing body, then the same property may not again be considered for rezoning until the expiration of at least 12 months immediately following the defeat of the rezoning by the governing body.
5.
Amendment of the rezoning application. In acting on an application for a change in the zoning classification of property, neither the applicant nor the governing body shall alter either:
1.
The proposed new zoning district for the property; or
2.
The boundaries of the property proposed for rezoning.
(Ord. No. 2006-5, § 1, 10-24-06; Ord. No. 2008-2, Exh. A, 2-18-08)
Section 22.04. - Variances.
In hearing and acting upon applications, the governing body may also grant, in specific cases, such variance from the terms of this ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship so that the spirit of these regulations shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the governing body that:
1.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question and because of its size, shape, or topography; and,
2.
The application of these regulations to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship; and,
3.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and,
4.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of these regulations, provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by this ordinance. In exercising the above powers, the governing body may, in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken in relation to this ordinance, and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
A public hearing shall be conducted on all applications for variances. Notice of the public hearing shall be advertised in the legal county organ at least 15 days but no more than 45 days prior to the date of the public hearing and will state the date, time, place, and purpose of said public hearing. Additionally, the notice shall include the article and section that is being petitioned for relief, and the name and address of the applicant, unless the applicant is the governing body. A sign containing the same information set forth in the notice shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property not less than 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing.
(Ord. No. 2006-5, § 1, 10-24-06; Ord. No. 2008-2, Exh. A, 2-18-08; Ord. No. 2010-2, § 1, Exh. A, 4-19-10)
Section 22.05. - Performance bonds.
Wherein the zoning ordinance there is delegated to the planning commission and county commission the function of establishing certain physical site improvements as a contingency to securing a zoning amendment, special use or variance, the planning commission or the county commission may, to insure strict compliance with any regulation contained herein or required as a condition of the issuance of a permit, require the permittee to furnish a performance or surety bond executed by a reputable surety company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia in an amount determined by the planning commission and county commission to be reasonably necessary to insure compliance hereunder; provided, however, that in fixing the amount of such performance or surety bond, the planning commission and county commission shall take into consideration the size and scope of the proposed improvement project, current prevailing cost of rehabilitating the premises upon default of the operator, estimated expenses to compel operator to comply to court decree, and such other factors and conditions as might be relevant in determining the sum reasonable in the light of all facts and circumstances surrounding such application. (Ord. No. 2006-5, § 1, 10-24-06)
(Ord. No. 2006-5, § 1, 10-24-06; Ord. No. 2008-2, Exh. A, 2-18-08)
Section 22.06. - Standards governing exercise of zoning power.
In any zoning decision, the governing body shall always balance the interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality, or general welfare of the citizens of the county against the right to the unrestricted use of property. Specifically, the governing body shall use and apply the following standards governing any exercise of zoning power, which said standards are deemed to be relevant factors in the balancing process:
a.
Existing uses and zoning of nearby property;
b.
The extent to which property values are diminished by the particular zoning restrictions;
c.
The extent to which the destruction of property values, resulting from the existing or proposed zoning of parcels, promotes the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the public;
d.
The relative gain to the public, as compared to the hardship imposed upon the individual property owner, by the proposed zoning classification;
e.
The suitability of the subject classification;
f.
The length of time that the property has been vacant as zoned, considered in the context of land development in the vicinity of the property;
g.
Conformity with or divergence from any land use plan in existence at the time.
(Ord. No. 2006-5, § 1, 10-24-06; Ord. No. 2008-2, Exh. A, 2-18-08)
Section 22.07. - Appeals.
Any person who may have a substantial interest in any decision of the governing body may appeal any decision of the governing body to the Superior Court of Colquitt County, Georgia. The appeal to the superior court shall be by writ of certiorari. Such appeal may be filed within 30 days from the date of the decision of the governing authority, and upon failure to file the appeal within 30 days the decision of the governing authority shall be final.
(Ord. No. 2008-2, Exh. A, 2-18-08)
