ARTICLE IV. - THE CITY OF MOULTRIE-COLQUITT COUNTY AIRPORT AUTHORITY[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1953 Ga. Laws, page 3035, which provides for a Moultrie-Colquitt County Airport Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Aviation, O.C.G.A. § 6-1-1 et seq.

Sec. 1. - Created; name; board generally.
There is hereby created and established in and for the City of Moultrie and Colquitt County an Airport Authority which shall be known as `The City of Moultrie-Colquitt County Airport Authority' which shall be a public body corporate and politic having jurisdiction within the territorial limits of Colquitt County and shall consist of a board of nine (9) members. The word `Authority' as hereinafter used shall be deemed to mean The City of Moultrie-Colquitt County Airport Authority.
(1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3798, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Board members.
(a)
The authority shall consist of nine members, with two members to be appointed by a majority vote of the Board of Commissioners of Colquitt County, hereinafter 'county appointees,' one of whom may be a member of such governing authority; two members to be appointed by a majority vote of the mayor and council of the City of Moultrie, hereinafter the 'city appointees,' one of whom may be a member of such governing authority; and the remaining five members, hereinafter the 'authority appointees,' to be appointed by majority vote of the county appointees, the city appointees, and the sitting authority appointees. In selecting appointees, preference should be given to candidates with experience in or knowledge of aviation issues. The county administrator of Colquitt County and the city manager of the City of Moultrie shall be nonvoting, ex officio members of the authority. The governing authorities and the authority board existing as of the effective date of this Act shall appoint the initial members selected hereunder whose terms shall commence on the first day of the month following the month in which this Act is approved. Such members, hereinafter, shall be known as the 'initial members.'
(b)
To be eligible for membership on the authority, an individual shall be 21 years of age, shall have been a resident of Colquitt County for at least two years, and shall reside in Colquitt County during his or her membership.
(c)
The terms of the membership of the authority members shall be as follows:
(1)
One of the initial county appointees, one of the initial city appointees, and two of the initial authority appointees shall serve a term to expire June 30, 2021. One of the initial county appointees, one of the initial city appointees and two of the initial authority appointees shall serve a term to expire June 30, 2022. One of the initial authority appointees shall serve a term to expire June 30, 2023. As the initial members' terms expire, thereafter all members shall each serve a term of three years;
(2)
Successors to county appointees shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Board of Commissioners of Colquitt County;
(3)
Successors to city appointees shall be appointed by a majority vote of the mayor and council of the City of Moultrie; and
(4)
Successors to authority appointees shall be appointed by majority vote of the membership of the authority as it exists prior to the respective expired term. Members may succeed themselves in office.
(d)
The members of the authority shall enter upon their duties immediately upon their appointment.
(e)
The office of any member of the authority shall be declared vacant upon a determination by a majority of the members of the authority that such authority member has been, while in office, arrested for or convicted of a felony, a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature, or a crime involving moral turpitude; or has moved such member's residence from Colquitt County. The authority shall be authorized to remove from office any member of the authority by a two-thirds' majority vote in the event that such member of the authority is found to be guilty of misfeasance or malfeasance in office, is found to have failed to attend three or more successive regular meetings of the authority without a reasonable excuse approved by a resolution adopted by the authority, or who is found to have engaged in actions or activities which are detrimental to the carrying out of the duties and obligations of the authority.
(f)
Any vacancy on the authority shall be filled within 60 days through appointment by a majority vote of the body that had appointed the member whose resignation, removal, or ineligibility resulted in such vacancy. The individual so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(g)
Immediately upon appointment of the initial members, such members shall elect, as provided in this Act, one of its members as chairperson, vice chairperson, secretary, and treasurer. Such officers shall serve a term to expire on June 30 of the following year. The chairperson shall have such powers and duties as granted from time to time by resolution of the authority. When the vice chairperson is acting on behalf of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall have the same duties and powers of the chairperson.
(h)
The authority shall meet at least once quarterly in July, October, January, and June for the transaction of business. The chairperson may convene meetings of the authority. If the chairperson is unable or fails to call a meeting, upon request of an authority member, the authority may convene a meeting upon call by a majority of its members.
(i)
A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum, but no action may be taken by the members of the authority without the affirmative vote of a majority of the full membership of the authority. A member may participate in meetings by teleconference as provided in Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(j)
The authority shall make bylaws and other rules and regulations for its own governance, which may include the use of Robert's Rules of Order and may amend such rules and regulations by a majority vote of the authority. The authority may delegate to one or more of its officers, agents, or employees such powers and duties as may be deemed necessary and proper.
(k)
The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed from any available funds for their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(l)
No member of the authority shall have, directly or indirectly, any financial interest, profit, or benefit in any contract, work, or business of the authority, nor in the sale, lease, or purchase of any property to or from the authority unless:
(1)
Any interest, profit, or benefit by such member is disclosed in advance to the other members of the authority and is recorded in the minutes of the authority;
(2)
Such member having any such interest, profit, or benefit shall not participate in discussion or vote during that portion of an authority meeting when such contract, work, business, sale, lease, or purchase is being discussed; and
(3)
Such member having such interest, profit, or benefit does not participate in any decision of the authority relating to such matter.
As used in this section, the term 'interest, profit, or benefit' means any interest which reasonably may be expected to result in a direct financial benefit to such member as determined by the authority, which determination shall be final and not subject to review.
(m)
All meetings of the authority shall be open to the public to the extent provided in Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A.
(1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3798, § 2; HB 1223 (2020), § 1, 6-30-20)
Sec. 3. - Powers and duties.
Said Authority shall be deemed to exercise public and essential governmental functions and shall have all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate its purposes and projects, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority: Separately or jointly, to acquire, establish, construct, expand, own, lease, maintain, operate, regulate and police airports and landing fields for use of air crafts within the limits of said county, including such airports and landing fields which may now be owned by Colquitt County; to sue and be sued; to have a seal and alter the same; to make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary to the exercise of the power of the Authority; to acquire by the exercise of the right of eminent domain any property essential to the purposes of the Authority; to sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, or dispose of any real or personal property or interest therein; to mortgage, pledge and assign any revenues, incomes, tolls, charges or fees received by the Authority; to issue certificates of indebtedness for the purpose of providing funds for carrying out the duties of the Authority, provided such certificates shall not extend beyond the period of thirty (30) years beyond the date of issuance thereof and provided further that such certificate shall be repayable from the revenues realized from the projects or any part thereof; to borrow money for any corporate purposes; to appoint officers, agents or employees; to make use of facilities afforded by the Federal Government or any agency or instrumentality thereof; and to exercise any and all powers now or hereafter possessed by private corporations performing similar functions.
Sec. 4. - Projects.
Said Authority shall not operate or construct any project for profit, and shall fix rates and charges consistent with this declaration of policy and such as will produce revenues only in amounts sufficient together with other funds of the Authority to pay principal and interest on certificates and obligations of the Authority; to provide for maintenance and operation of the project and to create and maintain a reserve to meet interest and principal payments due on any certificate in any one year after issuance thereof, and to provide reasonable reserve for the expanse of the facilities and service of the Authority. Said revenue certificates may be issued by said Authority in the same manner and subject to the like provisions as provided for the issuance of certificates of hospital authorities under the "Hospital Authorities Law" and may be validated in the superior court as provided for in the Constitution of this State and according to the provisions of the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, as amended, providing for the issuance of revenue certificates for the purchase, construction, and operation, in whole or in part, of any revenue producing facility. No such certificate shall be a personal or general obligation of any of said trustees and none of said trustees, nor any person executing such certificate on behalf of said Authority, shall be personally liable thereon.
Sec. 5. - Interpretation.
Nothing in this Act [article] shall curtail or limit in any way the power and authority now existing in Colquitt County and their offices in respect to airports by reason of laws heretofore enacted.
