CHAPTER 3 - Pawnbrokers
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A., Sec. 44-12-130 et seq.; municipal regulatory authority, O.C.G.A., Sec. 44-12-136.

Sec. 9-3-1 - Definitions.
The following words and terms shall have the following meanings for the purposes of this chapter:
(1)
Pawnbroker. Any person engaged, in whole or in part, in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or engaged in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or engaged, as part of the business activities described above or in conjunction therewith, in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers.
(2)
Person. An individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, trust, association, or any other legal entity however organized.
(3)
Pledged goods. Tangible personal property other than choses in action, securities, or printed evidences of indebtedness, which property is purchased by, deposited with, or otherwise actually delivered into the possession of a pawnbroker in the course of his business.
Sec. 9-3-2 - License required.
No person shall conduct business as a pawnbroker, or maintain an establishment for the purposes of conducting business as a pawnbroker, until a business license has been obtained from the City Administrator or designee. Such license application shall be made to the City Administrator or designee and license issued only upon approval by the Mayor and council.
(Ord. of 6/21/04)
Cross reference— License fee for pawnbrokers, Exhibit A to Sec. 3-4-1.
Sec. 9-3-3 - Review of application.
No action on any application for pawnbroker's license shall be taken until the chief of police has reviewed and investigated such application and forwarded his recommendation thereon to the mayor and council for their consideration, approval, or denial.
Sec. 9-3-4 - Hours of operation.
(a)
The hours for opening and closing a pawnshop shall be as follows: opening hour, no earlier than 6:00 a.m.; closing hour, no later than 7:00 p.m., except on Saturdays, when the closing hour may be 10:00 p.m.
(b)
Pawnshops shall not be open on Sundays.
(Ord. of 8/3/87, Sec. 3)
Sec. 9-3-5 - Records to be kept; inspection of records authorized.
(a)
Any pawnbroker shall be required to keep a book or register, upon which shall be entered each article or thing taken or held as security for a loan made by the person, as well as the name and place of residence of the owner or person pledging the same. The book or register, as well as the articles themselves, shall be at all times open to the unrestricted inspection of City Police Officers.
(b)
Any person selling or pledging any article as provided in this section shall be required to show positive identification and the person taking the pledge shall require and record in the above-required book or register that identification.
(Ord. of 8/3/87, Sec. 1)
State Law reference— Additional requirements for records are found in O.C.G.A., Sec. 44-12-132 et seq.
Sec. 9-3-6 - Daily report to police; inspection of shop authorized.
(a)
Each pawnbroker shall make a report to the police department before 12:00 noon each day (except Sunday, when the transactions of Saturday shall be reported on the following Monday), of every article or thing pawned to or purchased, whether such purchase is unconditional, or with the privilege of redemption on the part of the seller, and made on the previous business day. The report shall specify the article or thing, giving a full description, such as number, mark, and all other details as will make identification of such article or thing clear and positive.
(b)
Each pawnbroker's shop shall be subject to visitation and inspection by the police. If any pawnbroker refuses to submit to visitation or inspection, his or her shop shall be immediately closed by order of the Mayor.
(Ord. of 8/3/87, Sec. 2)
Sec. 9-3-7 - Penalty.
Violators of this chapter shall, upon conviction in municipal court, be subject to the penalties provided in section 1-1-8.
