Chapter 34 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.; special county one percent sales and use tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-110 et seq.; joint county and municipal sales and use tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-80 et seq.; providing funds or extending credit to private persons, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ VIII; taxation power of municipal and county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MOBILE HOME LOCATION PERMITS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Registration and licensing of dealers, manufacturers and persons transporting mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-38; removal of transportable housing from lands subject to writ of possession, O.C.G.A. § 44-7-59; ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.; issuance of mobile home location permits; display of decals, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492; the Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.; authority of general assembly to classify mobile homes as a separate class of property for ad valorem property tax purposes, Ga. Const. art. VII, § I, ¶ III(b)(2)(B).

Sec. 34-19. - Location permit; decal.
(a)
Each year every owner of a mobile home subject to taxation under this article shall obtain on or before April 1 from the tax commissioner of the county a mobile home location permit. The issuance of the permit by the tax commissioner shall be evidenced by the issuance of a decal, the color of which shall be prescribed for each year by the state tax revenue commissioner. Each decal shall reflect the county as the county of issuance and the calendar year for which the decal is issued. The decal shall be prominently attached and displayed on the mobile home by the owner.
(b)
Each year every owner of a mobile home situated in the county on January 1 which is not subject to taxation under this article shall obtain on or before April 1 from the tax commissioner of the county a mobile home location permit. The issuance of the permit shall be evidenced by the issuance of a decal which shall reflect the county as the county of issuance and the calendar year for which the permit is issued. The decal shall be prominently attached and displayed on the mobile home by the owner.
(Code 2005, § 74-31; Ord. of 9-9-1997, art. 1)
Sec. 34-20. - Permit display.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to fail to attach and display on a mobile home the decal as required by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492.
(b)
Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, in the magistrate's court shall be punished as provided in section 1-12, except that upon receipt of proof of purchase of a decal prior to the date of the issuance of a summons, the fine shall be $25.00.
(Code 2005, § 74-32; Ord. of 9-9-1997, art. 2)
Sec. 34-21. - Payment of taxes; returns.
Each year every owner of a mobile home subject to taxation under this article shall return the mobile home for taxation and shall pay the taxes due on the mobile home at the time the owner applies for the mobile home location permit, or at the time of the first sale or transfer of the mobile home after December 31, or on April 1, whichever occurs first. If the owner returns the mobile home for taxation prior to the date that the application for the mobile home location permit is required, the owner shall apply for the permit at the time the mobile home is returned for taxation. Except as provided for mobile homes owned by a dealer, no mobile home location permit shall be issued by the tax commissioner until all ad valorem taxes due on the mobile home have been paid.
(Code 2005, § 74-33; Ord. of 9-9-1997, art. 3)
Secs. 34-22—34-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FREEPORT EXEMPTION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Freeport exemption, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-48.2.

Sec. 34-46. - Certain property exempted.
(a)
The board of commissioners of the county shall be exempt from ad valorem taxation including all such taxes levied for educational purposes and for state purposes, all or any combination of the following types of tangible personal property:
(1)
Inventory of goods in the process of manufacture or production which shall include all partly finished goods and raw materials held for direct use of consumption in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business in the state. The exemption provided for in this section shall apply only to tangible personal property which is substantially modified, altered or changed in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing, processing or production operations in this state.
(2)
Inventory of finished goods manufactured or produced within the state in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business when held by the original manufacturer or producer of such finished goods. The exemption provided for in this section shall be for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date such property is produced or manufactured.
(3)
Inventory of finished goods which, on the first day of January, are stored in a warehouse, dock or wharf, whether public or private, and which are destined for shipment to a final destination outside the state and inventory of finished goods which are shipped into the state from outside this state and stored for transshipment to a final destination outside this state. The exemption provided for in this section shall be for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date such property is stored in this state.
(b)
All property that is claimed to be exempt under this subsection shall be designated as being "in transit" upon the official books and records of the warehouse, dock, or wharf, whether public or private, where such property is being stored. Such official books and records shall contain a full, true, and accurate inventory of all such property, including the date of receipt of the property, the date of the withdrawal of the property, the point of origin of the property, and the point of final destination of the property, if known. The official books and records of any such warehouse, dock or wharf, whether public or private, pertaining to any such in transit property, shall be at all times open to the inspection of all taxing authorities of this state and of any political subdivision of this state.
(Code 2005, § 74-61)
Secs. 34-47—34-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - RESERVED[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Article IV, §§, 34-66—34-69 was deleted at the direction of the city. It pertained to a finiancial instititution business license tax and derived from the Code of 2005.

Secs. 34-66—34-96. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - RESERVED
[5]
Footnotes:

Secs. 34-97—34-122. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - SPECIAL TAX DISTRICTS

Sec. 34-123. - Appropriate governmental services.
The provisions of this article may be used in the provision of water, sewer, roads, drainage facilities and street lighting. As it is the intent of the board of commissioners that the provisions of this article shall be used to promote the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county, the board may from time to time agree that other governmental services may be established and funded through this mechanism. Any request for such other governmental services must be made to the board prior to the filing of a petition as set out below. Nothing in this article shall be construed as to require the board to approve any such request and it shall be in the sole legislative judgment of the board to make a determination to establish any such special tax district.
(Code 2005, § 74-161; Ord. of 4-19-2004(2), art. 1)
Sec. 34-124. - Purpose and construction of article.
(a)
This article shall be construed together with and subject to the county zoning regulations, the county subdivision regulations, the county water and waste water ordinances and other relevant county ordinances specifying the responsibilities of those entities developing property.
(b)
This article shall be a supplemental means of providing for the following governmental services:
(1)
Lighting fixtures for the illumination of public streets, roads, sidewalks and alleyways (hereinafter sometimes referred to collectively as "public rights-of-way");
(2)
All public rights-of-way;
(3)
All water systems within governmental easements or the public rights-of-way;
(4)
All sewer lines and systems within governmental easements or the public rights-of-way; and
(5)
All drainage systems within governmental easements or the public rights-of-way.
(Code 2005, § 74-162; Ord. of 4-19-2004(2), art. 2(A))
Sec. 34-125. - Compliance.
Such systems must fully comply with applicable federal, state and county rules, regulations and ordinances. Additionally, no persons, firms or entities shall be permitted to establish lighting of public rights-of-way in any portion of the unincorporated area of the county without first complying with the provisions of this article specific to street lighting which are set forth in section 34-132.
(Code 2005, § 74-163; Ord. of 4-19-2004(2), art. 2(B))
Sec. 34-126. - Duties of planning director.
The county planning director, his designee or such other person or department as may be designated by the board of commissioners from time to time (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "planning director") shall be responsible for administering the special tax district program as set forth in this article and shall:
(1)
Advise prospective petitioners for proposed special tax districts of the procedures required for the establishment of such districts pursuant to this article.
(2)
Establish the boundaries of proposed special tax districts in accordance with such criteria and in such manner as the planning director may deem necessary and appropriate.
(3)
Establish an orderly system of numbering special tax districts created pursuant to this article in conjunction with the county tax assessor and the county tax commissioner.
(4)
Provide standard form petitions for use by prospective petitioners, which shall require, among such other matters as are set out herein and as may be required by the planning director, a professionally prepared estimate of the cost of the project.
(5)
Advise petition originators of estimated assessment rates for owners of property lying within proposed special tax districts.
(6)
Examine all filed petitions for accuracy and for compliance with the provisions of this article.
(7)
Notify the appropriate county department and the county engineer of the petition and secure their review and approval of the petition. Such review and approval should be based on sound engineering practices and the compatibility of the proposal with existing county facilities and systems.
(8)
Submit petitions to the board of commissioners together with estimated assessment rates to owners of property lying with in such districts and with such recommendations as the planning director, the affected county departments and the county engineer may deem appropriate.
(9)
Assign the appropriate county department the responsibility for coordinating the installation of the governmental service with the within such districts upon final approval by the board of commissioners.
(10)
Perform any and all other acts or duties necessary or proper for the attainment of the purposes herein set out.
(Code 2005, § 74-164; Ord. of 4-19-2004(2), art. 2(C))
Sec. 34-127. - Procedures.
(a)
The owners of residential lots within either an existing subdivision or a discrete and definable area, or the owners of property lying within an area zoned for purposes other than residential use, may submit to the planning director, for approval, a petition for the creation of a special tax district wherein appropriate governmental services shall be installed and operated. The petition must contain the signatures of at least 66 percent of the owners of the property lying within the proposed special tax district in favor of such designation and must contain an accurate description of the property to be included by tax map parcel numbers as the same are used by the county tax assessor and the county tax commissioner. The planning director shall, within 90 days from the date of approval of the petition, submit such petition to the board of commissioners for final approval. In the event 100 percent of the owners within any such proposed district shall fail to sign such petition, a notice of a public hearing to be conducted by the board shall first be published in the newspaper in which the county advertisements are usually published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting at which the board shall consider the creation of a special tax district.
(b)
Any other provision of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the board of commissioners shall be authorized and empowered to create special tax districts and provide governmental services in areas in which the board of commissioners have determined that special conditions exist which uniquely affect such areas so as to warrant the creation of such districts and the provision of such services therein. In making such determination, the special conditions which the board of commissioners may consider shall include, but not be limited to, public safety, security and welfare, and the creation of such special tax districts shall be upon such terms and conditions and in such manner as the board of commissioners may deem necessary or proper. A notice of a public hearing to be conducted by the board of commissioners shall first be published in the newspaper in which county advertisements are usually published once a week for two weeks preceding the meeting at which the board of commissioners shall consider the creation of a special tax district pursuant to this article.
(Code 2005, § 74-165; Ord. of 4-19-2004(2), art. 3)
Sec. 34-128. - Costs and assessments.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Lot means any single tract of land which falls within any of the zoning classifications as defined by the zoning regulations of the county, as amended, and shall include both improved and unimproved property.
(b)
The cost of providing and maintaining service in special tax districts created pursuant to this article shall be the actual cost of service provided plus the retirement of any construction costs incurred and an amount equal to ten percent of such sum to cover administrative expenses. Each property owner shall be responsible for and pay their pro rata share of such cost which shall be prorated among all property owners on the basis of the number of lots, whether improved or unimproved, owned by each property owner within such district. The construction costs incurred in the installation shall be retired in the manner set out by the board at the time of adoption of the special tax district.
(c)
Any other provision of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the board of commissioners shall be authorized to establish, by resolution duly adopted, the cost of providing and maintaining service in special tax districts created pursuant to the provisions of this article as the board may deem necessary or proper.
(d)
The county tax commissioner shall be responsible for the collection and receipt of monies in payment of the cost incurred in connection with the special tax district from the owners of property lying within same. The cost of such service shall be added to the tax statement issued annually to each such property owner. The board shall be authorized to establish, by resolution duly adopted, such other manner or method of billing, accounting, collecting and receiving of monies in payment of the cost of providing and maintaining special tax districts as the board of commissioners may deem necessary or proper.
(Code 2005, § 74-166; Ord. of 4-19-2004(2), art. 4)
Sec. 34-129. - Contracts authorized.
The board of commissioners shall be authorized to enter into and make contracts with public utility companies and other firms, entities or persons for the purpose of carrying out and effecting the provisions of this article.
(Code 2005, § 74-167; Ord. of 4-19-2004(2), art. 5(A))
Sec. 34-130. - Exceptions.
The board of commissioners shall be authorized to grant exceptions to the literal terms of this article where special conditions or hardships exist.
(Code 2005, § 74-168; Ord. of 4-19-2004(2), art. 5(B))
Sec. 34-131. - Streetlight districts.
No further special tax districts shall be created under the terms of the county streetlight district ordinance and where in conflict, the provisions of this article shall take precedence.
(Code 2005, § 74-170; Ord. of 4-19-2004(2), art. 5(D))
Sec. 34-132. - Special provisions relating to streetlights.
(a)
Alternative means of establishing special tax district for streetlights.
(1)
The owners of property lying within a proposed subdivision of land may, but shall not be required to, construct and install lighting fixtures for illumination of public rights-of-way to be located within such proposed subdivision, subject to the provisions of this article. A written request for authorization to construct and install lighting fixtures signed by all owners of such property shall be submitted to the planning director on such forms as may be prescribed, from time to time, by the planning director together with plans and specifications for such lighting fixtures for approval by the planning director. Such plans and specifications shall be designed and/or approved by the public utility company which will provide electrical service to the proposed subdivision and shall include, but not be limited to, a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision showing the location of the lighting fixtures within the subdivision as required by the appropriate public utility, and a description of the fixtures, poles, and other components approved for use by such utility company. Upon approval of the plans and specifications by the planning director, such plans, specifications, and other required documents, together with the recommendation of the planning director, shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for final approval. The construction and installation of such lighting fixtures shall not commence until:
a.
The board of commissioners have approved such plans and specifications; and
b.
The county planning commission has approved the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision which shows the location of all lighting fixtures.
(2)
In the event the planning director denies the request by such owner for authorization to construct and install such lighting fixtures, the planning director shall notify such owner in writing of such denial and the reasons therefor. Any such owner shall have the right to appeal the decision of the planning director by filing a written notice of appeal with the planning director within 30 days from the date of said notice of denial. The planning director shall thereupon submit the notice of appeal to the board of commissioners together with all plans, specifications and other documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken for placement upon the agenda of the board of commissioners for its determination. The board of commissioners may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may modify the decision from which the appeal is taken.
(b)
Standards for streetlights. The American National Standards Practice of Roadway Lighting of the Illuminating Engineering Society, as approved by the American Standards Institute, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the standard for the installation and operation of lighting in the unincorporated area of the county, with the following exceptions:
(1)
Lighting fixtures installed within public rights-of-way to be operated for the purpose of street illumination shall comply with these standards. The uniformity of illumination shall be such that the point of lowest illumination shall have at least one-third of the average horizontal footcandle required illumination level except that on local or residential streets, it may not be less than one-sixth of this average. The minimum average horizontal footcandle illumination level by roadway classification shall be as set forth in the following table:
EXPAND
Roadway Classification Commercial Area Intermediate Area Residential Area
Major 2.0 1.2 0.9
Collector 1.2 0.9 0.6
Local or residential 0.9 0.6 0.2
  (2)
Lighting fixtures installed within public rights-of-way as security lights or for the purpose of lighting areas other than streets shall be mounted on the side of the pole opposite from the street and shall be oriented in such a manner to ensure that the lateral light distribution pattern is parallel to the street and the vertical light distribution, at the initial light source, is perpendicular to the street, so as to protect the users of the street from objectionable glare.
(3)
Lighting fixtures installed within or outside of public rights-of-way for any other purpose shall be installed and operated in such a manner to prevent glare from being a hazard to or interfering with the normal use of public rights-of-way.
(Code 2005, § 74-171; Ord. of 4-19-2004(2), app. A)
Secs. 34-133—34-140. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - HOTEL/MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX

Sec. 34-141. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Due date means the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the tax is to be computed.
Finance department means the department handling financial affairs and accounting of Jackson County, Georgia.
Guestroom means a room occupied, or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, auto court, inn, public club or private club, containing guestrooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise, but excluding single-family residence leased in its entirety for a period of not less than one month. It does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention or other buildings in which human beings are housed or detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any room or apartment in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise. However, the term "occupant" shall not include state or local government officials or employees when traveling on official business, and who occupy rooms in any hotel for a period of one or more consecutive days.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the county, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of these premises, lessee, sub-lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating that hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied, or has or shall have occupied, or has or shall have the right of occupancy, of any guestroom in a hotel for at least ten consecutive days next preceding that date.
Quarterly period means the quarter of any year as follows: The first quarter is composed of the months of January, February, and March; the second quarter is composed of the months of April, May and June; the third quarter is composed of the months of July, August and September; and the fourth quarter composed of the months of October, November and December.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction there from.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 1, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-142. - Enforcement of article.
(a)
Authority of finance department. The finance department shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the imposition of the tax.
(b)
Rules and regulations. The director of the finance department shall have the power and authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this article or other laws of the county and the state, or the Constitution of this state or the United States, for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and the collection of the taxes hereunder.
(c)
Records required from operators; form. Every operator renting guestrooms in the county shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the director of the finance department may require.
(d)
Examination of records; audits. The director of the finance department or any person authorized in writing by him may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any person renting guestrooms and any person liable for the tax and may investigate the character of the business of the person in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the person, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(e)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the tax, the finance department may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in his or their possession or custody information relating to rentals of guestrooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the director of the finance department when he requires and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy and such other information as the director of the finance department may require.
(f)
Disclosure of business of operators; limitation on rule. The director of the finance department or any person having an administrative duty under this article shall not make known in any matter the business affairs, operations or information obtained by an audit of books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty; the amount or source of income, profits, losses or expenditures, or any particular thereof, set forth or disclosed in any return, or permit any return or copy thereof or any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person not having that administrative duty under this chapter. Successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given information as to the items included in the measure and amount of unpaid tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties.
(g)
Business license renewal. Prior to presenting an application to the appropriate county department for the renewal of operator's business license, the operation will be required to obtain a letter from the director of the finance department stating that all collections due under this article have been made and are current.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 2, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-143. - Applicability of article.
This article shall not apply to any person as to whom, or to any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the power of the board of commissioners to impose the tax. It specifically shall not apply to any person not licensed by or required to be licensed by the county for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin or any other place in which rooms, lodging, or accommodations are frequently furnished for value.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 3, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-144. - Penalty for fraudulent returns, report.
Any operator or other person who fails to register as required in this article, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the director of the finance department or who renders a false or fraudulent return, is guilty of a violation of this article. Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any report who makes any false or fraudulent report, with intent to defeat or evade the determination of an amount due required by this article to be made, is guilty of a violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 4, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-145. - Use of funds; penalty for violation.
(a)
All proceeds generated from the assessment of a hotel/motel occupancy tax shall be spent only for those benefit the citizens of Jackson County, Georgia. The director of [the] finance department shall maintain a separate accounting of the proceeds generated under this article. These funds shall be spent and disbursed only upon the vote of the county commission in accordance with the law.
(b)
Any violation of this article is punishable by a fine of not more than $500.00 or imprisonment up to 30 days or both.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 5, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-146. - Imposition and rate of tax.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3.7)(a), there is hereby levied and assessed and there shall be paid a tax of five percent of the rent for every occupancy of a guestroom in a hotel in the county. The tax shall be paid upon any occupancy on and after September 1, 2010, although this occupancy is had pursuant to the contract, lease, or other arrangement made prior to that date. Where rent is paid, or charged or billed, or falls due on a weekly, monthly or other term basis, the rent so paid, charged, billed, or falling due shall be subject to the tax to the extent that it covers any portion of the period from September 1, 2010. This payment, bill, charge, or rent due shall be apportioned on the basis of the ratio of the number of days covered thereby. Where any tax has been paid therefore, the director of the finance department may, by regulation, provide for a credit or refund of the amount of that tax upon application therefore as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 6, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-147. - Persons liable for tax; extinguishment of liability.
Every person occupying a guestroom in a hotel in the county is liable for the tax. His liability is not extinguished until the tax has been paid to the county except that a receipt from an operator maintaining a place of business in this county or from an operator who is authorized by the licensing and revenue manager, under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe, to collect the tax and who is, for the purposes of this chapter, regarded as an operator maintaining a place of business in this county, which receipt is given to the occupant pursuant to section 34-148, is sufficient to relieve the occupant from further liability for the tax to which the receipt refers.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 7, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-148. - Collection of tax by operator, receipt of occupant; rules for collection schedules.
Every operator maintaining a place of business in the county as provided in section 34-147, and renting guestrooms in the county, not exempted under section 34-150 shall, at the time of collecting the rent from the occupant, and on demand shall give the occupant a receipt therefore. In all cases of transactions upon credit or deferred payment, the payment of tax to the operator may be deferred in accordance therewith, and the operator shall be liable therefore at the time and to the extent that these credits are incurred in accordance with the rate of tax owing on the amount thereof. The director of the finance department shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations prescribing methods and schedules for the collection and payment of tax.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 8, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-149. - Unlawful advertising regarding tax.
It is unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to the public or to any guest, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator or that it will not be added to the rental of the guestroom, or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 9, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-150. - Exemptions.
The tax authorized by this article shall not apply to:
(1)
Charges made for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided to any persons who certify that they are staying in such room, lodging, or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty.
(2)
The use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided without charge.
(3)
Any rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by state or local government officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations with a state or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a state or local government official or employee traveling on official business for the purposes of the exemption provided by this paragraph. For purpose of the exemption provided under this paragraph, a local government official or employee shall include officials or employees of counties, municipalities, consolidated governments, or county or independent school districts; or
(4)
Charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 10, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-151. - Registration of operator, form and contents; execution; certificate of authority.
(a)
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in the county shall immediately register with the director of the finance department on a form provided by the manager. Persons engaged in this business must so register no later than 15 days after the date the tax becomes effective and is imposed as set forth in section 34-146; but the privilege of registration imposed after the imposition of the tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment of collection of tax on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of registration. This registration shall set forth the name under which the person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place or places of business and such other information to facilitate the collection of the tax as the director of the finance department may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of an association or partnership, by a member or partner, and in the case of a corporation, by an executive officer or some person specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the registration. The director of the finance department shall, after this registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each registrant to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable and shall be prominently displayed therein so as to be seen and come readily to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. This certificate shall not be assignable and nontransferable and shall be returned immediately to the director of the finance department upon the cessation of business at the location named or upon the sale or transfer of the business at that location.
(b)
If the director of the finance department deems it necessary in order to facilitate initial registration pursuant to this article of persons engaged in business or prior to the date of imposition of tax as set forth in this article, he may prescribe provisions therefore other than those provided in this section. Those provisions shall be made to affect the purposes of this article. For these purposes, those provisions shall be in lieu of those provided in this section. The registration and the certificate thereof shall have the same effect as that provided in this section.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 11, 9-20-2010)
Sec. 34-152. - Determinations, returns and payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. The tax shall become due and payable from the occupant at the time of occupancy of any hotel in this county. All amounts of these taxes collected by any operator are due and payable to the county monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period.
(b)
Return; time of filing; persons required to file; contents. On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the director of the finance department, in such form as he may prescribe, by every operator and by every person liable to payment of tax pursuant to this article during that monthly period who has not paid the tax, and made return in regard to the related occupation which is the subject of the tax.
(c)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax by due date. A specific penalty of 15 percent is imposed for failure to pay any amount of taxes when due and payable to the county. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at the rate one percent per month, or fraction thereof, until paid.
(d)
Delivery of return and remittance. The person required to file the return shall deliver the return, together with the remittance of the net amount of tax due to the director of the finance department in a manner prescribed by the said director.
(e)
Collection fee allowed operators. Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deductions from state tax shall be the same rate authorized for deduction from state tax under the "Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sale and Use Tax Act," approved February 20, 1951 (Ga. L. 1951, p. 360), as now or hereafter amended.
(f)
Extension of time for filing a return and paying tax. For a good cause, the director of the finance department may extend, but not to exceed one month, the time for making any return or payment of tax. No further extension of time may be granted. Any person to whom an extension of time has been granted, who makes a return and pays the tax within the period of extension, shall pay in addition to the tax interest on the amount thereof at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, for a period of this extension to the time of return and payment.
(Ord. No. 10-10, § 12, 9-20-2010)
