Chapter 14 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.; authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 14-19. - State of emergency; declarations.
(a)
In addition to any and all powers enumerated in this Code, the chairperson of the board of commissioners shall have further emergency powers as set out in this subsection. The chairperson shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one or more of the following conditions exists:
(1)
There is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to an unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding immediate action;
(2)
Unusual or extreme weather conditions, making use of county streets or areas difficult or impossible;
(3)
Civil unrest, commotion, or uprising is imminent or exists; and/or
(4)
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the county.
(b)
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the county shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(c)
After declaration of such emergency, the chairperson shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
(1)
The power to use employees of the county to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb, and property of citizenry of the county;
(2)
The power to close roads and to delineate areas within the county wherein an emergency exists;
(3)
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations;
(4)
The power to close business establishments within the affected areas;
(5)
The power to close any and all governmentally-owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public; and
(6)
The power to do any and all acts necessary and incident to the preservation of life, limb, and property of the citizenry of the county.
(d)
No emergency power as set forth in this section may be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the chairperson. However, upon declaration of a second or further emergencies to exist, the emergency powers as set forth in this section may be extended.
(Code 2005, § 22-31)
Sec. 14-20. - Emergency operations plan.
The county emergency operations plan, as approved on October 28, 2008, and revised on November 20, 2008, is incorporated by reference as if fully set out in this section.
(Code 2005, § 22-32)
