Chapter 30 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Probate court's jurisdiction involving the removal of obstructions from roads, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.1; damaging, injuring or interfering with utilities, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 et seq.; governmental authorization for construction or maintenance of any private road unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-8; state, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; state grants for construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.; inspection of and reports on roads and bridges by county police, O.C.G.A. § 36-8-6; authority to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, streetlights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Purpose and scope.
The county is responsible for managing and controlling county road rights of ways to ensure their safe and efficient use, for their primary purposes of providing access via vehicles. Certain encroachments which are not specifically authorized by the county within a road or road right-of-way can be a threat to public safety, interfere with public functions, damage public improvements, and threaten the operation and functioning of other approved installations within county road rights of ways such as utilities.
The prohibitions of this article do not apply to utilities, which are regulated by article 9 of the county unified development code, or any driveway authorized by the public development director pursuant to driveway regulations of the county unified development code, or any other encroachments specifically authorized by permit or otherwise by the county road superintendent.
(Ord. No. 17-009 , 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-2. - Definitions.
Basketball hoop or hoop means any part of a backboard, hoop, net or supporting apparatus designed or intended to be used for play with a ball of any kind.
County right-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain, and back slope, facility or any appurtenance of any county road as defined in this section.
County road means any county-owned or maintained highway, road, street, avenue, drive, detour or other way open to the public and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles.
Curb means a concrete improvement installed along the edge of the travel way of a road for purposes of drainage and access control.
Landscaping means the planting of any tree, bush, shrub, or ground cover, or the placement of any fence or wall.
(Ord. No. 17-009 , 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-3. - Prohibitions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place landscaping, a basketball hoop or other recreational devices, or any other encroachment within a county road or county road right-of-way. It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, alter, supplement or otherwise modify a curb along a county road within a county right-of-way. This specifically prohibits the pouring of concrete on or in front of a curb to ease the transition or avoid a "bump" effect for a private driveway connected to the county road.
(Ord. No. 17-009 , 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-4. - Removal.
The county road superintendent is authorized to immediately and without notice confiscate and remove any basketball hoop or other recreational device, or any other encroachment within a county road or county road right-of-way. Any basketball hoop or other recreational device that is confiscated by the road superintendent may be claimed from the county road department within one week of confiscation. A charge to cover the county's cost for removal and storage of the hoop or device will be assessed, and payment must be made before the hoop or device is released to its owner. Any such hoop or device that is not claimed and released within one week of confiscation may be donated or otherwise disposed of by the county.
The county road superintendent and any of its subcontractors are authorized to, without notice, remove any landscaping, fence, wall, curbing or curb supplement installed within a county right-of-way without authorization, or any other physical obstruction within a county right-of-way that has not been approved by the county road department. A charge to cover the county's cost for removal will be assessed to the private property owner of record abutting the encroachment.
(Ord. No. 17-009 , 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-5. - Violations and penalties.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be liable to fine and/or injunctive relief or any other legal procedure authorized by law. Any fine imposed shall not exceed $500.00. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. No. 17-009 , 12-18-2017)
Secs. 30-6—30-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HAULING AND LOGGING OPERATIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Damaging, injuring or interfering with utilities, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.

Sec. 30-19. - Scope.
This article shall cover any person that uses a county right-of-way in carrying out its business by loading, transporting, or unloading materials of any nature whether on the road surface or a county right-of-way or crossing the unpaved portion of the right-of-way including ditches or embankments.
(Code 2005, § 62-31; Ord. of 8-19-1993, § 2)
Sec. 30-20. - Exemptions.
Small and limited operations of less than three tons in load less than 48 hours in duration and using existing driveways may be exempted from the bonding requirements of this article within the reasonable discretion of the code compliance officer.
(Code 2005, § 62-32; Ord. of 8-19-1993, § 8)
Sec. 30-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access site means any temporary roadway, drive, structure, fill or device, existing or constructed, that is used or employed for the purpose of crossing, travel upon or use of county road rights-of-way.
County right-of-way means the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain, and back slope, facility or any appurtenance of any county road as defined in this section.
County road means any county-owned or maintained highway, road, street, avenue, drive, detour or other way open to the public and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles.
Heavy equipment machinery and vehicles means all devices in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or drawn including, but not limited to, semitrailers, trailers, tractors and truck-tractors, provided, however, that vehicles in use immediately for the control of extinguishing of wild fires shall be exempt from this article.
Loading and unloading shall be defined by its everyday meaning but also shall include any activity known as harvesting or mining of any product or material.
Operations means those activities contemplated by this article, including the loading or transporting of raw materials such as stone, timber, pulpwood, fill dirt, sand, rock, all minerals and construction material.
Operator means any person carrying out the activities contemplated by this article.
(Code 2005, § 62-33; Ord. of 8-19-1993, § 3)
Sec. 30-22. - Violations; penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be liable to fine and/or injunctive relief or any other legal procedure authorized by law. Any fine imposed shall not exceed $500.00. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Code 2005, § 62-34; Ord. of 8-19-1993, § 10)
Sec. 30-23. - Permit required.
(a)
No person, referred to in this section as harvester, involved in loading and hauling stone, pulpwood, fill dirt, sand, rock, all minerals and construction material or logging and timber operations shall not use an existing driveway or access point nor shall install any new driveway, temporary driveway, or means of ingress and egress to any property abutting a county road or county maintained road, without first making application to the board of commissioners through its code compliance officer for and receiving of a permit authorizing such installation or use.
(b)
Persons constructing, reconstructing or improving any commercial driveway, as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 32-6-130, are required to obtain a permit from the state department of transportation prior to undertaking such work. (See O.C.G.A. § 32-6-131.)
(c)
The information required for permits shall consist of the following:
(1)
The name, address and phone number of the party which will be loading or unloading;
(2)
The approximate location of access sites to the county road;
(3)
The date work will commence;
(4)
Name of the title owner of the tract;
(5)
Upon completion of the operations, the operator shall give written or oral notification to the code compliance officer for the board of commissioners.
The site shall be inspected by a county official from the code compliance officer's office or road department, and the code compliance officer shall provide notice of release of liability to the operator within ten days of notification of completion.
(Code 2005, § 62-35; Ord. of 8-19-1993, § 4)
Sec. 30-24. - Bond.
(a)
Bond required. An applicant for a permit under this article, unless otherwise exempted in this article, shall file a bond in the amount of $1,000.00 with the application, either in cash, cashier's check or certified check. The bond shall be conditioned to protect and save harmless the board of commissioners from all claims and damages for clearing and repairing any county road. A bond will be required for each separate operation.
(b)
Multiple operations. An existing bond may be used by an applicant for more than one operation provided there are no violations for any of the operations and provided further that no more than three operations shall be covered by the same bond. Any operation lasting longer or expected to last longer than 30 days shall be subject to a separate bond.
(c)
Release of bond. Upon completion of the operations and inspection by the code compliance officer, at the request of the applicant, the bond shall be returned to the applicant subject to deductions for repairs that are reasonably required under this article.
(d)
Denial of permit due to failure to satisfy requirements. No permit shall be issued to any applicant who has failed to satisfy any bonding requirements imposed upon persons engaged in the kind of work or activity proposed to be done or has not satisfactorily completed repairs and cleanup from any previously approved site for such applicant's agents.
(Code 2005, § 62-36; Ord. of 8-19-2003, § 6)
Sec. 30-25. - Display of permit.
It shall be the duty of any permittee under this article to post the permit issued to the applicant in a conspicuous place at the work site. It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit a permit at or about any location not covered thereby, or to misrepresent the number of the permit or the date of the expiration of the permit.
(Code 2005, § 62-37; Ord. of 8-19-2003, § 7)
Sec. 30-26. - Harvesting, mining, or loading materials.
(a)
Loading sites. All harvesting, grading or loading shall be conducted at a loading site off of county rights-of-way and behind the established ditch line of county roads.
(b)
Ditches. Ditches within 50 feet of a temporary driveway or right-of-way crossing shall be kept clear of all debris or residue at all times to allow for proper drainage. Culverts shall be installed at temporary entrances, as needed, to facilitate proper drainage flow. The code compliance officer for the county board of commissioners shall notify the operator of the requirement for a culvert based on good engineering and driveway maintenance practices.
(c)
Warning signs. Any person operating on county rights-of-way shall be required to post warning signs at least 500 feet on both sides of a temporary driveway adequately warning oncoming traffic of persons, vehicles, equipment or machinery entering the roadway.
(d)
Roadway. County roads shall be kept serviceable and open at all times for school business, emergency vehicles, mail carriers and traffic of the general public.
(e)
Adjacent properties. The operations will not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and pedestrian traffic and the means of ingress and egress from the affective and adjacent properties.
(f)
Supervision and inspection. All work for which a permit is required under this article shall be subject to inspection and supervision by the code compliance officer, after consultation with the road superintendent. The code compliance officer shall have the authority to order the applicant to cease all hauling and logging operations immediately when the weather conditions compromise public safety or public property or when operations are in violation of the standards of this article.
(g)
Gravel and approaches. The code compliance officer may require the placement of gravel or prepare approaches to the county road of right-of-way when the duration of the operations or weather conditions require it.
(Code 2005, § 62-38; Ord. of 8-19-1993, § 5)
Sec. 30-27. - Liability for damages and arbitration.
(a)
Liability. Any provisions of this article notwithstanding, an applicant or operator shall be liable to the county for the full amount of any damages caused by such operations, the amount of bond notwithstanding.
(b)
Arbitration. If the parties cannot agree on the amount of damages, then the applicant shall have the right to request arbitration in writing. The county shall choose one arbitrator and the operator shall choose the second, both of whom shall be residents of the county. Together, the two designees shall choose a third arbitrator who shall be a registered forester residing in the county or a county contiguous thereto. Within 30 days of their designation, such arbitration panel shall review the damages and render a decision which shall be subject to appeal to the superior court of the county.
(Code 2005, § 62-39; Ord. of 8-19-1993, § 9)
Secs. 30-28—30-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PICKETING AND PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Preventing or disrupting lawful procession, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-34; authority to regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(3); funeral processions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-76; operation of motorcycles and motor vehicles in parades, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-7.

Sec. 30-58. - Purposes.
The board of commissioners adopts this article in furtherance of its responsibility to protect the public safety and well-being of the citizens of the county.
(Code 2005, § 62-71; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. I)
Sec. 30-59. - Violations; penalty.
Any person violating this article shall, upon conviction in the county magistrate court, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 2005, § 62-73; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. XIV)
Sec. 30-60. - Duty to disperse as directed by law enforcement.
Whenever the free passage of any street, road or sidewalk in the county shall be obstructed by a crowd, the persons composing such crowd shall disperse or move on when directed to do so by any law enforcement officer. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to disperse or move on when so directed by a law enforcement officer.
(Code 2005, § 62-74; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. XI)
Sec. 30-61. - Notice of proposed picketing or demonstrating and permit.
The board of commissioners and the sheriff of the county shall be given at least 18 hours' written notice of any person planning to picket or demonstrate. Notice shall be given on a form approved by the board of commissioners and the sheriff. Upon submission of a completed form and its transmittal to the sheriff, the clerk of the board of commissioners shall issue a written permit stating the name of the person planning to picket, the name of the place of business or public facilities which will be picketed and the hours the picketing or demonstrations will be conducted.
(Code 2005, § 62-75; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. X)
Sec. 30-62. - Prohibited in certain places.
There shall be no picketing or demonstrating in front of any building in which the following are located, affecting the normal operations thereof:
(1)
A hospital, nursing home or rest home, within 200 feet of the boundary line;
(2)
A school, within 100 feet;
(3)
A residence, no longer than 45 minutes;
(4)
A state or federal highway or road unless there has been compliance with all rules, regulations, and requirements imposed by the appropriate state or federal governing authority for the use of the state or federal highway or road as a private route.
(Code 2005, § 62-76; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. VIII)
Sec. 30-63. - Participation by persons under 16 years of age prohibited.
No person under the age of 16 years shall be permitted to absent themselves from school attendance in order to march, picket, or demonstrate within the county during any time that such person is required by law to be in attendance at school, unless such person has obtained written permission from the appropriate educational authority to be absent from school to attend and to participate in such march, picket, or demonstration.
(Code 2005, § 62-77; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. IX)
Sec. 30-64. - Use of vehicles.
No vehicles shall be used in any picket or demonstrating line, and all pickets or demonstrators shall be afoot.
(Code 2005, § 62-78; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. XII)
Sec. 30-65. - Use of sidewalks, streets and roads.
(a)
When picketing or a demonstration is conducted on public sidewalks maintained by the county, only the outside five feet of the sidewalk next to the curb shall be used by the pickets or demonstrators. No picketing or demonstrating shall be conducted on the remaining portion of the sidewalks or on that portion of the streets or roads used primarily for vehicular traffic.
(b)
When picketing or a demonstration is conducted on paved public streets or roads maintained by the county, the pickets or demonstrators shall not stand, march, or sit within eight feet of the edge of the pavement. When picketing or a demonstration is conducted on unpaved public streets or roads maintained by the county, the pickets or demonstrators shall not stand, march, or sit within ten feet of the edge of the road.
(Code 2005, § 62-79; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. V)
Sec. 30-66. - Assemblages to be peaceful, orderly and unattended by noise.
All assemblies and picketing shall be orderly, taking into consideration the rights of any residents in the immediate area of the demonstration or picketing to the peaceable enjoyment of their residences. To the extent that any residence is located within 300 feet of the location of any demonstration/picketing, the demonstrators or picketers shall not use any sound amplification system, except for one handheld bullhorn; provided, however that no handheld bullhorn may be used in any such demonstration or picketing between sundown and sunrise.
(Code 2005, § 62-80; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. IV)
Sec. 30-67. - Time of picketing and public demonstrations.
Picketing and demonstrations shall be conducted only between sunrise and sunset.
(Code 2005, § 62-81; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. XIII)
Sec. 30-68. - Limitations on picketers or demonstrators before place of business or facility.
Marching by picketers or demonstrators shall be spaced at a distance of five feet, front to back, and five feet, side to side and shall not otherwise block access.
(Code 2005, § 62-82; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. VI)
Sec. 30-69. - Use of placards and signs.
Pickets or demonstrators shall carry only cardboard or paper placards or signs and the words used thereon shall not be such that they would immediately incite violence. No metal or wood may be attached to the placards or signs and the placards or signs shall not be more than 36 inches in length and not more than 36 inches in width.
(Code 2005, § 62-83; Ord. of 7-11-2000(1), art. VII)
Secs. 30-70—30-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ADDRESSING AND ROADS
DIVISION 1. - PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND GENERAL REGULATIONS

Sec. 30-101. - Title and purpose.
This article shall be known as the Addressing and Roads Ordinance for Jackson County, Georgia. These regulations are established to provide a system of unique road names and addresses which are essential for successfully:
• Improving the response time of fire, police, ambulance vehicles and other emergency services.
• Expediting postal and general delivery services.
• Enhancing the ability to locate a business and/or residences based on their address.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-1-1, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-102. - Authority.
This article is enacted pursuant to the authority conferred by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-122, as amended, to promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the county. The county GIS department and the county public development department are hereby assigned overall authority and responsibility for the naming of public/private roads and addressing as directed by provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-1-2, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-103. - Jurisdiction.
The provisions set forth herein shall apply to those roads, both public and private (including manufactured/mobile home parks, condominium developments, apartment complexes, malls, shopping plazas, strip buildings, businesses, business or office parks) and addresses which are currently or will be located within the county and all municipalities within.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-1-3, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-104. - Resources.
This article shall conform the GISOP, with changes made based on practicality and local applicability as needed. Additionally, standards issued by NENA, the FGDC, the ESRI model for local governments and the USPS shall be consulted for their applicability to the county's road name and addressing program.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-1-4, 12-18-2017)
Secs. 30-105—30-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DEFINITIONS OF TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

Secs. 30-111. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following terms are defined below. Unless specifically defined, words or phrases used in this article shall be interpreted to have the meaning in common usage and to give this article the most reasonable application.
Apartment: Unit within a building consisting of two units or more for rent.
Commission: The Jackson County Board of Commissioners (BOC).
Building: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, or equipment and requiring a separate power meter to be installed for the building to have electrical service. This will also include mobile homes or manufactured homes. For the purposes of this article, the term "building" may also include other manmade structures meeting the same requirement as in the first sentence.
Condominium: Ownership of a single unit within a structure that may include common areas and facilities.
Driveway: A private road, easement, or private right-of-way, giving access from a public road, private road, or private right-of-way, leading to a building. A driveway does not serve more than two lots/buildings that have or require separate power meters to be installed for electrical service. If a driveway is said to serve more than two lots/buildings, it then shall be assigned and designated with a private road name with all properties addressed along such named private road.
Frontage unit: A frontage unit is a standard interval in feet used to assign consecutive property numbers on a street or road.
GIS addressing coordinator: An employee or other designated official or person charged with the responsibility of assigning addresses and approving road names as defined in this article. This person shall be designated by the county GIS manager and will be an employee of the county GIS department.
GIS manager: An employee or other designated official or person charged with the responsibility of managing the county GIS department.
Honorary road name: A secondary road name designated to an individual person or organization.
House number: The number assigned by the GIS addressing coordinator to any building for the purpose of identification of the location.
Jackson County GIS Department: The GIS department will be tasked with the maintenance of addressing data, coordinating with the public development department, designating street numbers, the approval of street names, and the assignment of street names.
Jackson County Public Development Department: The public development department will be tasked with coordinating initial applications, code enforcement, coordinating with the GIS department, and assisting public inquiries.
Mailing address: The address assigned by the GIS addressing coordinator and used by USPS for the purpose of delivery of the United States mail. The property address and mailing address shall be the same for all buildings unless the property owners utilize a post office box for delivery of their mail.
Mobile home: A moveable or transportable dwelling.
Mobile home park: Any site or parcel of land under single ownership where land or units are rented, and community utility(ies) provide for the occupancy of mobile homes.
Official road name: The name as designated in the complete list of all roads in the county and on file with the county GIS department.
Private road: Any road, which is not maintained by GDOT and/or the county or it's municipalities through the use of public funds, or is not a driveway as defined by this article.
Public road: Any road which is maintained by the county, a county municipality and/or by GDOT.
Road: A public or private one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or egress. Such roads may be of various types including frontage roads, rear access roads, roads with cul-de-sacs and dead-end roads. This definition includes secondary roads, but does not include driveways.
Road sign: A metal blade and necessary hardware used to convey a road name, block range and, where applicable, the state road number.
Unit designator: The portion of the mailing address used to distinguish individual units within the same structure.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-2-1, 12-18-2017)
Secs. 30-112. - Abbreviations.
For the purpose of this article, the following abbreviations are defined below. Unless specifically defined, words or phrases used in this article shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this article the most reasonable application.
E 9-1-1: Emergency 9-1-1; a system used that links emergency callers with the appropriate public services.
ESRI: Environmental Systems Research Institute; a global company that provides the means for organizing and analyzing geographical information to help land planners and resource managers make well-informed environmental decisions.
FGDC: Federal Geographic Data Committee; a U. S. committee that coordinates the development of the National Spatial Data Infrastructure.
FHWA: Federal Highway Administration; agency in the U. S. Department of Transportation that supports states and local governments in the design, construction and maintenance of the nation's highway system.
GDOT: Georgia Department of Transportation.
GISOP: The Jackson County GIS Department Operating Procedures Technical Guide. The document used as a guideline by the GIS addressing coordinator and GIS department that will have the authority to authorize and approve alternate methods of displaying road naming and addressing which meet the intent of this article. This document may be changed periodically at the discretion of GIS department.
MRAD: Master road and address database.
MUTCD: Manual on uniform traffic control devices; standard for signs, signals and pavement markings in the United States. MUTCD is published by the FHWA.
NENA: National Emergency Numbering Association; professional organization that promotes the implementation and awareness of 9-1-1 and the international three-digit emergency communication systems.
USPS: United States Postal Service.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-2-2, 12-18-2017)
Secs. 30-113—30-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ROAD NAMING

Sec. 30-121. - Consideration of new or proposed road names.
The naming of roads, particularly in new subdivisions, shall be reviewed and approved by the county GIS department and the county public development department per the selection standards outlined below in 3-121(1). Persons submitting road names that are rejected shall be notified so that changes may be made prior to the plan review process.
(1)
Selection standards. The following standards will be used in consideration of new or proposed road names. All current roads that would otherwise not meet these standards will be granted exceptions and maintain those names until changes, if considered, can be made to conform to this article. In addition to those outlined in the GISOP, the standards used are as follows:
a.
Names of new roads or proposed changes must not duplicate, in wording, in sound or pronunciation, an existing road within the county regardless of distance between occurrences or in address ranges/block numbers. For communities that cross county boundaries the road names should not duplicate any other road name within the incorporated boundaries of that municipality or the same zip code community name even if it crosses into another adjoining county.
b.
Road names may not contain abbreviations of words, names or initials.
c.
Numerical references are prohibited, such as fifth, ten.
d.
Names of individuals will only be permitted for honorary purposes unless the individual holds a state, national or local significance.
e.
Single alphabetical characters are prohibited.
f.
Road names must be easy to pronounce and easily recognizable in emergency situations.
g.
Special characters will not be permitted; periods, dashes, apostrophes, hyphens, etc.
h.
Names that may be offensive (slang, words with double-meanings) will not be allowed.
i.
Road names will be continuous throughout its entire length, when feasible.
j.
Names which have homonyms (i.e., other words pronounced similarly but spelled differently) should not be used on any street and certainly not on multiple streets even if the street type is different (e.g., Steven Lane/Stephen Lane; Disk Drive/Disc Lane).
(2)
Prefixes and suffixes. Directional prefixes and suffixes will be used only when necessary. If used, cardinal (north, south, east and west) directions will only be used as prefixes and ordinal (northwest, northeast, southwest, and southeast) directions will only be used as suffixes, in accordance to established baselines as outlined in the GISOP. The use of both a prefix and suffix for addresses and road names will not be permitted.
(3)
Road types. Each approved road name will be required to have a road type. There shall only be one road type per road name. Road types permitted for use in the county will be in compliance with the standards of the USPS. (See USPS Publication 28.) Both the county GIS department and the county public development department have the authority to determine which road type(s) shall be suitable for the new or proposed name, as outlined in the GISOP. If the requested type is deemed inappropriate by the county public development department, a new one must be chosen.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-3-1, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-122. - Reserving road names.
A request for road name reservation can be presented to the county public development department for any new planned development. These road names will be reviewed and reserved in the road name inventory, if approved. Road names may only be reserved for two years. Upon reaching the two year mark from date of reservation, the names will no longer be reserved, should a written extension request not be made. A new request for an additional one year extension of the road name(s) reservation must be submitted to the county public development department.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-3-2, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-123. - Approvals.
All proposed road names shall be reviewed and approved by the county GIS department and the county public development department during the site or development plan review period. Roads name changes are authorized by action of the county board of commissioners and the relevant municipal authority before the road names become official and signs are erected. The appropriate county GIS layers shall be amended by the county GIS department to reflect all newly approved road names.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-3-3, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-124. - Road naming by petitions.
If property owners, tenants, or entities wish to name a road or rename an existing road, they must submit an application and petition with 66 percent of the property owners or tenants adjoining the said road in agreement of the request for naming/renaming to the county public development department. A nonrefundable application fee of $250.00 must be submitted to the county public development department prior to processing. Application fees are subject to change at the discretion of the county public development department as outlined in the schedule of fees. The road naming petition will only be presented before the county board of commissioners for final approval if all criteria are met as outlined in the GISOP. Applications initiated by staff will have no fees associated with them.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-3-4, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-125. - Honorary designations.
Honorary designations are discouraged but can be initiated by the county board of commissioners or municipalities.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-3-5, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-126. - Renaming existing roads for emergency purposes.
Roads (public or private) may be changed by the county GIS department as necessary for health, safety and welfare reasons and efficiency of the emergency response system. Owners of adjoining properties shall be notified in writing that the change is taking place and be provided a list of proposed road names from which input shall be considered. A selection will be chosen after receiving input and be presented to the county board of commissioners for approval. For any case in which a continuous road has multiple names, the county GIS department will determine the correct name and notify owners along such road of the name change. In the event of a conflict in either road naming or addressing, the county GIS department will use its best judgment to resolve the conflict and have the responsibility of notifying the owner, E 9-1-1, USPS, and other agencies.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-3-6, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-127. - Temporary road names.
Temporary road names for events or special occasions will not be permitted.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-3-7, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-128. - Road name signage.
Sign location and installation shall be in accordance with the rules and regulations of the MUTCD (Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices) published by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) under 23 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), part 655, subpart F. http://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/. Road signs will contain the prefix (if used), road name, road type, suffix (if used) and block numbers. Private roads will be marked as such in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-3-8, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-129. - Official road name database/road book.
Road names that are assigned to roads shall be kept in a "road book" and have the road characteristics for each road centerline of the master road dataset. The county GIS department shall make this information available via internet (for public use) and intranet (for internal use). The county GIS department may designate other departments and/or personnel to maintain information as it is deemed practical, and shall provide means for the designated personnel to update the road book accordingly.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-3-9, 12-18-2017)
Secs. 30-130—30-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - ADDRESSING

Sec. 30-141. - Addressing applicability.
Addresses will be assigned on all roads and shall have a road sign placed on the main road or highway.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-4-1, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-142. - Property legal descriptions.
The adoptions and implementation of the ordinance from which this article derives shall not affect the legal descriptions of any property or be used to determine legal descriptions.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-4-2, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-143. - Ordering of addressing components.
Components of a property address shall always be in the following order: Address number, address number suffix (if used prior to ordinance), directional prefix (if any), road name, road type, directional suffix (if any), unit type designation (if applicable), and a unit number (if applicable).
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-4-3, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-144. - Assignment and standards.
Addresses shall be determined based on the distance from the intersection of the driveway with the road and the current surrounding addresses, if compliant with this article. Additional standards used to determine addresses are as outlined and can be found in the GISOP.
(1)
Multiple structures sharing driveway. If more than two addressable structures access a common driveway as defined, that driveway will be assigned a private road name and all addresses will be assigned along such private road.
(2)
Corner and multiple fronting parcels. Corner or double fronting parcels shall be assigned an address based on the driveway location of the intersecting road. If that entrance is not visible from that road or is inaccessible for emergency services, then the address shall be based on the road which the structure faces.
(3)
Duplex/attached structures. Each unit of structure shall receive its own individual address as determined by the county GIS department. This would include townhouses and condominiums.
(4)
Multiple unit structures. Separate internal units within, or associated with, residential or commercial complexes shall have an individual address and be uniquely identified by the use of a unit type. All educational, medical, residential, industrial facilities, and/or any other type of property with private roads that is sold shall not be allowed to change addressing or road names without written approval of the county GIS department. If road names or addresses are changed without approval, the property owner will be subject to fines as described in section 30-157.
(5)
Vacant parcels. Vacant parcels less than one acre may be pre-addressed at the discretion of the county GIS department. This pre-address shall be assigned to the center point of the parcel frontage. All other parcels will not carry an address until placement of a structure.
(6)
Miscellaneous structures. Structures requiring an address for metering or permitting purposes shall be given their own individual address and a unit designator. These structures would include billboards/signs, power poles, utility assets and others.
(7)
Mobile/manufactured home parks. Mobile home lots shall have sequential address numbers throughout the mobile home park. Each lot will have a separate address number assigned. The address number of each lot must be clearly displayed on the mobile home which is located on that lot and must be clearly visible from the road. If the lot is more than 50 feet from the road, the address number shall be displayed at the end of the road or easement giving access to that mobile home. Addresses are not transferrable with the mobile home.
(8)
Wireless towers. Wireless towers shall be assigned one address to the tower owner. Should the tower have multiple carriers, each carrier will be assigned a suite number that will include the address of the tower owner. A sign or post which clearly indicated the address number assigned to the tower shall be located at the entry point of the road on which the tower is located.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-4-4, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-145. - Numbering system.
The county GIS department shall develop and maintain a uniform scaled system of numbering addresses. This addressing system shall be used in designating addresses for new and existing structures and to resolve address problems which tend to confuse the traveling public or tend to delay the response of emergency services, mail delivery and other service providers. Baselines and the point of origin shall be defined in the GISOP to include the numbering structure for the county. Addressing shall conform to the GISOP, however; the county GIS department reserves the right to amend as needed.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-4-5, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-146. - Specifications and placement of address numbers.
All structure numbers shall be constructed of a durable, weather resistant material. The color shall contrast with the color scheme of the structure, and if mounted on glass, shall contrast with the background and be clearly visible. Reflective numbers for nighttime identification are required, if not in a well-lit area.
In accordance with section 505 of the 2012 International Fire Code, address numbers for both residential and commercial buildings should not be less than four inches in height. Unit designators for these facilities should not be less than four inches. In all cases, a number larger than the minimum size may be required where the minimum size does not provide adequate identification from the traveled roadway or is proportional to the building size. All numerical identifications must be easily identifiable without obstruction of view. Any dwelling or individual business located at more than 50 feet from the roadway and/or not clearly visible shall be required to have numerical posting at both the entrance or driveway and located in close proximity to the front door or entrance way.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-4-6, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-147. - Responsibility for placement of address numbers.
It shall be the responsibility of each and every property owner, trustee, lessee, agent and occupant of each residence, apartment building, business or industry to post and maintain, at all times, address numbers as required under this article. All addresses shall be displayed in such a way that they are unobstructed and legible from the traveled roadway.
(1)
New addresses. The owner, occupant, or agent of each house, building or other structure assigned an address under the uniform numbering system shall place or cause to be placed the number on the house, building, or other structure within 30 days after receiving notification from the county GIS department and or the county public development department of the proper number assignment or within 30 days of occupancy, whichever is sooner.
(2)
Existing addresses. Further, the owner, occupant or agent of any existing house, building or other structure existing as of the date of the adoption of this article, shall place or cause to be placed the number on the house, building or other structure within 60 days after the adoption of this article.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-4-7, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-148. - Changes of addresses.
If an address number is changed for any reason, the county GIS department shall be responsible for assigning the new address number. Requests for address reassignment should be made to the county public development department. An application fees for reassignment is to be submitted for processing. Application fees are subject to change at the discretion of the county public development department as outlined in the schedule of fees. The form shall be available online on the county website and at the county public development department office. The county GIS department has the authority to change addresses as necessary to ensure conformity throughout the county and efficiency of the emergency response system.
Requests will be reviewed within five business days for consideration and approval, but may be extended should further consideration be needed. When such a change is made, the county public development department shall notify the building owner, the property owner, the county road department, all USPS, the county offices, and emergency services. The owner of the building shall post the changed address numbers within 30 days of receipt of such notice. The owner/resident of the building will be responsible for notifying all suppliers and others of the address change.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-4-8, 12-18-2017)
Secs. 30-149—30-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 30-151. - Compliance.
No owner of real property shall attempt to number or fail to number the property or the principle building, if not in conformity with this article. The county public development department shall send a written notice, to any owner not in compliance with this article, to the owner's address as stated in the county records, directing specific compliance with a provision of this article. If corrective measures have not been taken within 30 days of the notification of violation, a person or business will be subject to enforcement fines as described in section 30-157. The county will not assume any responsibility for the inability of emergency services (i.e., sheriff, fire, 911 departments) to locate the property in the event of an emergency due to incorrect property identification.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-5-1, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-152. - Development plan requirements.
All land subdivisions that creates a new public or private road or road section in any jurisdiction within the county must have a pre-approved list of road names and addresses from the county GIS department or the county public development department before submitting subdivision and development plans to county public development department or to the corresponding local municipality department. All multi-unit and multi-structure developments must submit the site plan with building layout, for unit numbering, to the county public development department prior to occupancy. Any subdivision or site that requires new addresses will be reviewed within seven business days for assignment and subject to the final development/site plan approval before release.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-5-2, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-153. - Business licenses.
All businesses, new or existing must have their address properly displayed in accordance to this article or a penalty will be assessed. All new businesses must have their address verified/confirmed against the MRAD before a license can be issued.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-5-3, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-154. - Building permits.
No permit shall be issued for any structure until the owner/developer/contractor obtains an official address assigned by the county GIS department.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-5-4, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-155. - Certificate of occupancy.
The certificate of occupancy (CO) for any structure erected, repaired, or modified shall be withheld by the county public development department or local municipality until the address is posted on the structure as outlined in this article.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-5-5, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-156. - Enforcement responsibilities.
The responsibility for the enforcement of the provisions of this article, in addition to the legal authority of the county and its municipalities is as assigned below:
• The county public development department or local municipality: The code enforcement division or any designee(s) of the county public development department or local municipality shall have the responsibility of enforcing this article and issuing citations for violations.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-5-6, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-157. - Penalties for violation.
Any person, business or property owner that violates or fails to comply with the provisions of this article shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,500.00 but in no event to be less than $300.00; thus adhering to article 22 section 2232 of the county unified development code. Each day any violation with the provisions of this article shall continue as a separate offense. In the event that violations of this article are not corrected within 30 days of receiving the fine, the county may perform the work needed to comply and bill the property owner(s). If the bill for work performed is not paid within 90 days of mailing, then a lien may be put on the property to include the cost of the work and any applicable court costs.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-5-7, 12-18-2017)
Secs. 30-158—30-160. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 30-161. - Appeals.
Any owner or occupant can submit an informal appeal in writing to the director of public development or to the GIS manager of the GIS addressing coordinator. Road naming and/or addressing decisions will be made within ten days of the notification date. The GIS manager shall review within reasonable time to determine if he/she will affirm, modify, or revoke the decision of the GIS addressing coordinator. If the appellant still finds the decision unsatisfactory, he/she may submit a formal appeal to the county board of commissioners or local municipality within 15 days of the notification date. The notice of appeal should include the application and any appeal fees as applicable. The county board of commissioners or local city council shall make its final decision on the appeal, in conformity with this chapter, and it shall be final and conclusive. In the absence of an appeal within the designated timeframes, the decisions of the GIS addressing coordinator or GIS manager shall be final.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-6-1, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-162. - Severability of provisions.
All provisions in other ordinances for the county in conflict with this article are hereby repealed. If any provisions of this article or the application thereof to any person or circumstance are held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions or applications of this article which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application and to this end, the provisions of this article are severable.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-6-2, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-163. - Liability.
The county, its officers, agents or employees, together with any person following their instructions in rendering services, are not liable for civil damages as a result of an act or omission under this article, including but not limited to, developing, adopting, operating, or implementing an addressing system or plan.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-6-3, 12-18-2017)
Sec. 30-164. - Procedure.
The county, its officers, agents or employees, together with any person following their instructions in rendering services, are not liable for civil damages as a result of an act or omission under this article, including but not limited to, developing, adopting, operating, or implementing an addressing system or plan.
When a street name change is requested by:
A property owner with access to the subject street; [or]
A developer of property with approved access to the subject street:
(1)
An application (see attached) is obtain from the division of planning and zoning (706-367-5908). It must be filled out completely and submitted along with a petition signed by all affected property owners in favor of the change (an affected property owner is one who owns an interest in property contiguous to the street).
Within 30 days of submittal to the division of planning and zoning, determines what percentage of the affected property owners has signed the petition. If less than 66 percent of the affected property owners have signed the petition, it will not be processed and will be returned to the applicant.
(2)
The planning and zoning division reviews the proposed street name for compliance with section 30-101.
(3)
If accepted, the proposed street name is placed on a "reserve list" in the road book. A letter is sent by the county GIS department to affected county departments for review and comments (fire and emergency services, transportation, planning division, and public safety).
(4)
If the requested name change receives any unfavorable comments, the county GIS department will schedule a meeting with affected departments and agencies to develop recommendations as to the beginning and ending points of said change (if necessary), or name change, or any street number changes that may be applicable.
(5)
After review and acceptance by the county departments of the request, and if 66 percent of the affected property owners have signed a petition, then the planning and zoning division places a request on the board of commissioners (BOC) agenda.
(6)
If all of the affected property owners do not agree to the requested street name change, or if less than 100 percent have signed the petition, than a public hearing is held. (Note, however, that at least 66 percent of the affected property owners must sign the petition for it to be accepted for processing).
Notification requirements are as follows:
a.
The public development department advertises the public hearings for the BOC as a public hearing agenda item.
b.
The public development department advertises the name change in the newspaper at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days, before the first public hearing.
(7)
If the name change is approved by the board of commissioners, then the planning and zoning division along with the GIS department make changes as necessary. The planning and zoning division again notifies affected property owners and public agencies in writing at least ten days before the change becomes effective.
The public agencies are:
The county voter registration.
The county water and sewer authority.
The county emergency services (911).
The county tax assessor office.
The county road department.
Applicable county fire district.
USPS postmaster.
(8)
The applicant is responsible for revising any final plats, including any associated fees. The applicant is also responsible for the cost of new street name signs that will replace existing street name signs.
(Ord. No. 17-006 , § 3-6-4, 12-18-2017)
