ARTICLE IV. - AIRPORT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the 1964 (Ex. Sess.) Ga. Laws, page 2260, which created the Jackson County Airport Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Aviation, O.C.G.A. § 6-1-1 et seq.; authority to acquire, construct and maintain airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.; general powers of counties and municipalities as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25; authority to enforce police regulations in airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-27.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This act [article] may be cited as the "Jackson County Airport Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Jackson County Airport Authority.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Jackson County Airport Authority," which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style and title, and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority of the trustee acting under the trust indenture herein provided for shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents and employees of the authority.
Sec. 3. - Membership.
(a)
The authority shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by the Jackson County Board of Commissioners. One member shall be appointed by each of the four district commissioners and the fifth member shall be appointed by the chairperson of the board of commissioners. The members shall be appointed at large from anywhere within Jackson County. The members holding office on the effective date of this Act shall serve out the terms to which they were appointed. Beginning with the appointments in 2010, one member shall be appointed for a term of one year and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified, two members shall be appointed for terms of two years and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified, and two members shall be appointed for terms of three years and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Thereafter, all appointments of successors shall serve terms of three years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Immediately after such appointments, the members of the authority shall enter upon their duties. To be eligible for appointment as a member of the authority, a person shall be at least 21 years of age, a resident of Jackson County for at least two years prior to the date of his or her appointment, and shall not have been convicted of a felony. Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself.
(b)
The Jackson County Board of Commissioners may provide by resolution for compensation for the services of the members of the authority in such amounts as it may deem appropriate; provided, however, that such members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
(c)
The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairperson and another as a vice chairperson. The members of the authority shall also elect a secretary, who need not be a member of the authority, and may also elect a treasurer, who need not be a member of the authority. The secretary may also serve as treasurer. If the secretary or treasurer are not members of the authority, such officer shall have no voting rights. Each of such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(d)
Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority.
(e)
The authority may be dissolved by the Jackson County Board of Commissioners if the authority has no outstanding debt. Upon such dissolution, all property owned by the authority shall be transferred to the county or to a municipality if such municipality has paid the debt service on the debt which financed a project.
(2003 Ga. Laws (Act 337), sec. 1, p. 4660; 2009 Ga. Laws (Act 282), sec. 1, p. 4070)
Sec. 4. - Meetings[; officers; quorum; compensation].
The authority shall hold their first regular meeting within 30 days after the approval of the act [from which this article is derived], and the first regular meeting of each year thereafter shall be in January. The authority shall meet at such times as may be necessary to transact the business coming before it. At its first meeting in January of each year thereafter, the authority shall elect one of its members as its chairman and another member as secretary-treasurer. Only one person shall hold the office of secretary-treasurer. These officers shall be elected for a term ending on December 31st of the year in which they were elected or until their successors are elected and qualified. Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business coming before it. The members of the authority shall not be compensated for services rendered as members; however, it is expressly provided that they shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Sec. 5. - Vacancies in office.
In the event of a vacancy on the authority by reason of death, resignation or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled by the appropriate appointing authority and the person so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
Sec. 6. - Definitions.
As used in this act [article], the following words and terms have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "authority" shall mean the Jackson County Airport Authority as created by the provisions of this act [article].
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, improving and operation of public airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, and related buildings, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions, and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property, both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all of such facilities, including real and personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance and operation of such airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable for the operation of such airports and landing fields.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery, equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and improving the same, and the placing of the same in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of any funds of the authority, including the proceeds from any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article] for any such project or projects.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds, bonds" and "obligations," as used in this act [article], shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36 et seq.), amending the law formerly known as the "Revenue Certificate Law of 1937" (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761 et seq.), as amended, and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto, and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter authorized in this act [article].
(e)
Any project shall be deemed self-liquidating, if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, and all properties used, leasing and sold in connection therewith, will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Sec. 7. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(b)
To acquire, by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease or dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire, in its own name, by purchase, gift or otherwise, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contract with respect to the use of or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority;
(d)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
To make contracts and leases, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects or leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they may deem advisable. The said authority is further granted the authority to make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient with the United States government or any agency or department thereof concerning the projects of the authority, subject to the rights and interests of the holder of any of the bonds or obligations authorized to be issued hereunder, and by the resolution or trust indenture of the authority authorizing the issuance of any of its bonds or obligations as provided in section 21 of this act [article];
(f)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid, in whole or in part, from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality or other source may impose;
(h)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision or any other source may impose;
(i)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(j)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state, except the right of eminent domain;
(k)
The authority and the trustee, acting under the trust indenture, are specifically authorized, subject from time to time, to sell, lease, grant, exchange or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real or personal, or interest therein, not required in the normal operation of, and usable in the furtherance of, the purpose for which the authority was created, except as such right and power may be limited as provided in section 2 and section 21 hereof;
(l)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers especially given in this act [article].
Sec. 7A. - Limited tort liability.
To the extent permitted by law, the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Jackson County; and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of Jackson County when in the performance of their public duties or work of the county.
(2003 Ga. Laws (Act 337), sec. 2, p. 4660)
Sec. 7B. - Exemption from certain taxes.
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the state and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any municipality, county, or the state and any political subdivision thereof."
(2003 Ga. Laws (Act 337), sec. 2, p. 4660)
Sec. 8. - Revenue bonds[—Generally].
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized, at one time or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost, as herein defined, of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates as may be authorized by the authority from time to time, shall be payable semi-annually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 30 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to, and in conformity with, the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 36 et seq.) amending the law formerly known as the "Revenue Certificate Law of 1937" (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761 et seq.), as amended, and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto.
Sec. 9. - [Same—]Form, denominations, registration, place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment or principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
Sec. 10. - [Same—]Signatures, seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and attested by the secretary-treasurer of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and secretary-treasurer of the authority. Any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as, at the actual time of the execution of such bonds, shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of delivery and payment of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Sec. 11. - [Same—]Negotiability, exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article] shall have, and are hereby declared to have, all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instrument law of the state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds, their transfer and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
Sec. 12. - [Same—]Sale, price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority, but no such sale shall be made at a price less than par, as provided in the Revenue Bond Law, unless said Revenue Bond Law be hereafter amended to permit the sale of such bonds at less than par.
Sec. 13. - Proceeds of Bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit for the cost of the project or projects, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purposes. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into a sinking fund or used for additional construction as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture.
Sec. 14. - Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds, upon the issuance of the latter.
Sec. 15. - Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Sec. 16. - Conditions precedent to issuance, object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this act [article]. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act [article] shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as in this act [article] provided.
Sec. 17. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article] shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Jackson County, or any municipality therein, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not, directly, indirectly or contingently, obligate the said county, or any municipality therein, to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatsoever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Sec. 18. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale from time to time of any surplus property of the authority, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the property, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the authority, both real and personal, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchases of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchases, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indentures may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Sec. 19. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this act [article] and such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
Sec. 20. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued and any monies derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal, of the authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund, which said sinking fund shall be pledged to, and charged with, the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agent or agents for paying interest and principal, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds, without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Sec. 21. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article], or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act [article] or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. 22. - Refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article] and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act [article], insofar as the same may be applicable.
Sec. 23. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of said Revenue Bond Law. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government or any department or agency of the United States government, if subject to be used, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the United States government, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said Jackson County Airport Authority.
Sec. 24. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act [article] or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the superior court of Jackson County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act [article] shall likewise be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 25. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 26. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this act [article], whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act [article].
Sec. 27. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this act [article], the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, improving and operating airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, including any related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertaking and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient or desirable for, and incident to, the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings.
Sec. 28. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions or subleases of its lands or facilities, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects.
Sec. 29. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this act [article], including the basis on which airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft shall be furnished.
Sec. 30. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act [article] shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Sec. 31. - Liberal construction of act [article].
This act [article], being for the purpose of promoting the health, morals and general welfare of the citizens on the United States, of the State of Georgia and of Jackson County, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
Sec. 32. - Effect of partial invalidity of act [article].
The provisions of this act [article] are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
