ARTICLE V. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-116. - Employment policies and procedures.
(a)
The specific personnel policies and procedures attached to this Code as appendix A have been adopted by the county and are made part of this Code as fully as if set forth in this section.
(b)
It is the purpose of these procedures and policies to establish a guide to administrative actions concerning the various human resource activities and operations of the county and to inform the employees of their rights, benefits and responsibilities. It is the responsibility of the constitutional officers and department heads as well as the employees to insure that all employees are thoroughly knowledgeable of the contents and are aware of the conduct that is expected of them while employed by the county. Performance evaluations will reflect the employees' adherence to these policies. Every effort will be made to insure that these personnel policies are administered in a systematic, fair and impartial manner.
Sec. 2-117. - Bond for constitutional officers.
All deputy constitutional officers shall be required to provide a bond of sufficient security payable to the governing authority of the county in the amount of $50,000.00 for the faithful performance of their duties when they assume the responsibilities of the constitutional officer due to absence, incapacity, death or removal from office.
(Ord. of 2-12-2007)
Sec. 2-118. - County administrator—Office created.
The board of commissioners of the county has determined that it would be in the best interest of the county and provide for a more effective and efficient county government for the county to have a county administrator. Therefore, the board has created the office of county administrator.
Sec. 2-119. - Same—Duties.
(a)
The duties of the county administrator specifically include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Supervising the conduct of county employees;
(2)
Administering county laws, ordinances, regulations, and directives of the board;
(3)
Exercising control over all county departments and agencies;
(4)
Preparing an annual budget;
(5)
Informing the county commissioners on a regular basis as to the financial conditions and needs of the county and maintaining accurate records reflecting the county's financial condition;
(6)
Examining the accounts and records, of any and each, of the various county departments;
(7)
Supervising the performance of county contracts;
(8)
Regulating purchases of county supplies and materials; and
(9)
Performing all other duties delegated by the county commissioners.
(b)
The departments and agencies over which the county administrator has control include, but are not limited to, financial administration, road department, solid waste, senior center, emergency management services, emergency management agency, government buildings, recreation (shared with the board), office of the tax assessor (shared with the board), elections (shared with the board), and library (shared with the board and regional authorities).
(c)
The county administrator shall have such other duties as may be assigned by the board from time to time, including, but not limited to, control of and responsibility for any new county departments and agencies established by the board.
Sec. 2-120. - Authority in absence of chairman.
If at any time the chairman of the board is not available to sign contracts, warrants, or other documents, and to act on official business, the vice-chairman will have the power and authority to sign any document and act on any official business that may arise.
(Res. of 4-3-1973)
Secs. 2-121—2-138. - Reserved.
