ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Purposes.
(a)
Purposes. This chapter is adopted as part of a comprehensive plan designed for the purposes, among others, of:
(1)
Promoting the health and general welfare of the community;
(2)
Establishing reasonable and ascertainable standards for the regulation and control of the licensing and sales of alcoholic beverages;
(3)
Protecting and preserving schools and churches; and
(4)
Giving effect to land use and preserving certain residential areas, with reasonable consideration being given to, among other factors, the character of the areas and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, the congestion in the roads and streets, and the promotion of desirable living conditions and sustained stability of neighborhoods and property values.
(b)
Because the purposes of this chapter are not advanced when alcoholic beverages are provided to the general public under an appearance that such alcoholic beverages are not being sold but are being given away as part of a business operation or other activity, any person providing alcoholic beverages to the general public, whether for sale or otherwise, must be licensed by the city.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Sec. 4-2. - Definitions.
(a)
Unless a contrary intention is clearly apparent from the context, any term used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as when used in a comparable provision of the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code (O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq., as amended) or the Georgia Department of Revenue Regulations (Ga. Comp. R. & Reg. § 560-2-1 et seq, as amended). Any terms used in this chapter not specifically defined herein shall be defined as set forth by state law or the Department of Revenue Regulations. Any use not expressly prohibited herein and allowed by state law and the Department of Revenue Regulations shall be allowed. To the extent that any definition herein is in conflict with definitions set forth in state law or the Georgia Department of Revenue Regulations, the state law and Department of Revenue terms, as amended, shall govern.
(b)
As used in this chapter, the singular and the plural shall each include the other, the masculine and feminine shall each include the other, and any verb tense may include any other verb tense.
(c)
As used in this chapter the term "may" is permissive and the term "shall" is mandatory.
(d)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult entertainment and adult entertainment establishment shall have the same meanings as set forth in section 64-1. adult entertainment establishments are prohibited from holding an alcoholic beverage license in the city.
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic consumable means any product intended for human consumption that contains any measurable amount of alcohol as defined in this section, regardless of whether such consumable is in liquid or solid form. Alcohol consumables will be regulated by the city and shall be deemed to be included in any reference to any type of alcoholic beverage.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, beer, wine, or liquor intended for human consumption. Any reference to alcoholic beverage in this chapter shall be deemed to include alcoholic consumables, regardless of whether such consumables are in liquid or solid form.
Alcoholic beverage caterer means any standard on-premises consumption retailer properly licensed to provide alcohol for consumption at private functions on private property, at special events, or at special events facilities.
Ancillary tasting license means a license that is available to the holder of a retail package license and allows for on-premises tastings under limited conditions as provided for in this chapter.
Applicant means the person, partner, firm, or corporation, as owner, or other entity (individually or collectively) making the application for the alcohol license, whether compensated or not. The term "applicant" shall include a licensee agent.
Assembly hall or events facility means a room or building typically accommodating the gathering of persons for deliberation, legislation, worship or entertainment, including but not limited, to trade shows and other similar activities, as well as some social events such as receptions, meetings, banquets, conventions, parties, catered events or similar gatherings. The facility must be available to public or private groups of persons for monetary consideration on a rental, fee, percentage or similar basis; be used primarily for special occasions including but not limited to, the events mentioned in this definition; be open to or attended by invited or selected guests or paying patrons; and the premises shall contain a minimum occupancy load of 200 persons for each show, event, reception or activity as permitted by the fire marshall. Establishments that operate as an "assembly hall" or "events facility" shall not provide adult entertainment, either regularly or occasionally; nor shall any such establishment operate as a bar or nightclub.
Bar means an establishment whose primary business is the provision of alcoholic beverages and not the consumption of food. A place that derives 75 percent or more total annual gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises and does not meet the definition of any other establishment qualified to hold a license under this chapter will be presumed to be a bar. Bars are specifically prohibited in the city. This provision does not preclude a business that otherwise qualifies as an eating establishment or restaurant from including the word "bar" in its name, provided that the name must also be indicative of food service, such as "Joe's Sports Bar & Grille".
Barrel, with respect to a brewery, means a vessel that is used to age, condition, and/or ferment beer which is 31 gallons or such other size authorized by the U.S. Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau ("TTB").
Barrel, with respect to a distillery, means a vessel that is used to age/condition/ferment distilled spirits; a standard unit of measure is 53 gallons.
Beer or malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, also known as Japanese rice wine, which shares a similar manufacturing process to beer but has a higher percent of alcohol by volume. The term "beer" is used interchangeably throughout this chapter with "malt beverage," and any reference to beer or malt beverage shall be deemed to include alcoholic consumables that contain beer or malt beverage alcohol.
Brewer means a manufacturer of beer, malt beverage, cider and/or similar alcoholic beverages.
Brewery means a domestic manufacturing facility for beer that is licensed by the state. Provided licenses are issued as required by the state and this chapter, a brewery is authorized to sell beer by the package or by the drink and to operate flight tastings on-premises of the brewery pursuant to state law.
Brewpub means any restaurant that also qualifies as an eating establishment in which beer, wine and/or liquor are licensed to be sold for consumption on-premises and in which beer is manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in state law for retail consumption in and on premises.
Bring your own beverage (BYOB) license means a license issued for any place of business open to the public or any private club that allows guests, patrons or members to bring their own beer and/or wine onto the premises for the guests' consumption.
Building code means and includes all building, plumbing and electrical codes and any similar technical code of the city.
Building official means the building official of the city as such position presently exists, or by whatever name the position may be designated in the future. The term building official will also be deemed to include any designee of the building official.
Chief of police means the chief of police of the city as such position presently exists, or by whatever name the position may be designated in the future. The term chief of police will also be deemed to include any designee of the chief of police.
City means the City of Milton, and when used in a geographical sense, means the territorial limits of the City of Milton.
City food market means a retail market which (a) does not sell or offer for sale any of the following: gasoline, diesel fuel, tires, liquor, tobacco products, lottery tickets, or related games of chance or beer by the keg; (b) does not provide for the on-premises use of coin operated amusements; (c) at all times that it is open to the public, maintains an inventory of saleable food products, including meat, dairy, vegetable, fruit, dry goods, and beverages, with a minimum cumulative cost of goods sold of such food products of at least $125,000.00; (d) has an interior floor area of at least 4,500 square feet and not more than 20,000 square feet, of which more than 50 percent of such interior floor area is devoted to the display for sale of non-alcoholic beverage products; (e) employs not less than four individuals who work at least 35 hours per week on the premises, and (f) derives less than 20 percent of its gross receipts from the sale of beer and/or wine.
City manager means the city manager as such position presently exists, or by whatever name the position may be designated in the future. The term city manager will also be deemed to include any designee of the city manager.
College means only those state, county, city, church, or other higher education institutions that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common colleges of this state and shall not include private colleges where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations, and other special subjects are taught.
Conviction means adjudication of guilt, plea of guilty, plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime, but shall not include a discharge under provisions of the State of Georgia First Offender Act.
County means Fulton County, Georgia, and, when used in a geographical sense, means the territorial limits of Fulton County, Georgia.
Courtyard market means a commercial or retail center consisting of one or more structures on one or more contiguous tracts or parcels of land, having a minimum of at least ten acres and at least 400,000 square feet of structures and having a minimum of 40,000 square feet of retail uses and not less than 45,000 square feet of outdoor areas used for public and private events, entertainment, farmer's markets, exhibitions, performances, shows, events, concerts and community events occurring on plazas, lawns, parks, rooftops, and streets (when not open to vehicular traffic) and sidewalks that are in the dominion and physical control of the owner of the courtyard market, the owner's agent, or the owner's lessee. No adult entertainment shall be permitted in a courtyard market.
Craft beer means a beer brewed by an independent brewer with annual production not exceeding 6,000,000 barrels.
Craft beer and/or wine market means a retail establishment whose primary purpose is the sale of craft beers and/or wine for consumption off-premises. Sales of craft beers and wines may be for consumption on-premises and/or package (including growlers or crowlers).
Distance means the distance requirements, as prescribed by state law, for the sale of alcoholic beverages and the manner in which distances are measured.
Distilled spirits, liquor, or spirituous liquor means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines. Any reference to distilled spirits, liquor, or spirituous liquor shall be deemed to include alcoholic consumables that contain distilled spirits or spirituous liquor. The terms distilled spirits, liquor, or spirituous liquor, when used in this chapter, shall all carry the same meaning.
Distiller means a manufacturer of distilled spirits.
Distillery means a domestic manufacturing facility for distilled spirits that is licensed by the state. Provided that licenses are issued as required by this chapter, a distiller/distillery is authorized to sell distilled spirits by the package, by the drink and to operate flight tastings on-premises of the distillery as provided for and subject to the limitations of state law.
Domestic wine means any and all wines produced by a farm winery within this state. Throughout this chapter, any reference to wine shall be deemed to include alcoholic consumables that contain wine.
Eating establishment shall have the same meaning as set forth by state law (O.C.G.A. § 3-3-7). An eating establishment may be licensed to sell beer, wine and/or liquor but must derive a minimum of 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food as required by state law. For brewpubs or other eating establishments that also sell beer and wine by the package, neither barrels of beer sold to licensed wholesalers pursuant to state law, package sales of beer and/or wine shall be used when determining the total annual gross food and beverage sales.
Entertainment or live entertainment means music, comedy, readings, dancing, acting, organized fighting, or other entertainment, excluding adult entertainment, performed on the premises of a licensed establishment. This classification includes dancing by patrons to live or recorded music.
Events facility shall have the same meaning as "assembly hall" or "rural or agricultural event facility" as set forth in section 64-1. Any establishment licensed as an events facility shall not provide adult entertainment either regularly or occasionally; nor shall any such establishment operate as a bar or nightclub.
Farm winery or Georgia Farm Winery shall have the same meaning as set forth by state law. Provided that a license is issued as required by the state and under this chapter, a farm winery licensed by the city is authorized to sell Georgia wine at its premises by the package or for consumption on-premises as authorized by Georgia law.
Fire marshall means the fire marshall of the city, as such position presently exists, or by whatever name the position may be designated in the future. The term fire marshall will also be deemed to include any designee of the fire marshall.
Fixed salary means the amount of compensation paid to any member, officer, agent, or employee of a bona fide private club as may be fixed by its members out of the general revenue of the club and shall not include a commission on any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages. For the purpose of this definition, tips or gratuities which are added to the bills under club regulations shall not be considered as profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Food caterer means any person that prepares food for consumption off the food caterer's premises.
Food hall means a retail area that contains more than two food hall cafes, where a minimum of 65 percent of the area is dedicated to food hall cafes that provide prepared meals for consumption on the premises during the entire time that alcohol is sold and that share a common area with at least 40 seats at tables for the food hall café patrons collectively within a building, courtyard, or other contiguous space.
Food hall café means a food and/or beverage vendor located within a food hall. A food hall café licensed under this chapter for on-premises consumption of alcohol may enter into an agreement with one or more food vendors within the same food hall to satisfy the requirements of meal service and the alcohol/food sales ratio required to be deemed an eating establishment. However, any food sales utilized by one establishment to meet the ratio cannot be used by another establishment for the same purpose. In order to qualify, any utilized food vendors must be (a) located in the same food hall as the licensed establishment; (b) generally incorporated into the operation of the licensed establishment; and (c) available, open, and prepared to serve food every hour that alcoholic beverages are offered for sale from any portion of the premises.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. "Fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy. Any reference to fortified wine in this chapter shall be deemed to include alcoholic consumables that contain fortified wine. For purposes of regulations contained in this chapter, fortified wine shall be deemed a distilled spirit.
Free-standing vendor means any person that is permitted to sell alcoholic beverages from a cart, kiosk, or temporary structure for retail sales within an open container area or at a licensed special event.
Full-service kitchen means a kitchen that consists of a commercial sink, a permanently installed stove, grill or other similar heating device that adequately and completely cooks prepared meals, and a refrigerator. Said kitchen must be approved by the county health department and city fire marshall.
Golf course means a golf facility consisting of a clubhouse or a professional golf shop and a regulation or executive length golf course of at least nine holes, as recognized by the United States Golf Association, the Professional Golfers Association of America, and the Georgia State Golf Association. The term "golf course" does not include miniature golf.
Growler or crowler means a glass, ceramic, or metal container not to exceed 64 ounces that is filled by a licensee or employee of a licensee with craft beer from a keg and securely sealed for off-premises consumption.
Growler/crowler shop means a retail establishment that only sells craft beer or wine or wine-based beverages in growlers or crowlers for off-premises consumption and no other alcoholic beverages. Establishments licensed as growler/crowler shops are not authorized to sell liquor and may not sell beer or wine for consumption on premises. Growler/crowler shops shall be no larger than 2,500 square feet and have no more than 40 different beers available at any given time. Provided that all distance and zoning requirements are met, growler/crowler shops are eligible to apply for an ancillary tasting license.
Hard cider means an alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the juice of apples, containing not more than six percent of alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, flavored or carbonated cider. For purposes of this chapter, hard cider shall be deemed a beer.
Hotel means any building or other structure in which boarding or lodging is provided for fewer than 30 days. Motels meeting the qualifications set out in this definition for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels.
Incidental service license means an on-premises alcoholic beverage license for an establishment that does not sell food that was prepared on the premises and does not charge for any alcoholic beverage. An establishment that holds an incidental service license is limited to wine and beer; and is prohibited from allowing any individual to consume more than 16 ounces of wine or 24 ounces of beer on premises in a calendar day. The amount of money spent on alcoholic beverages by such establishment shall not exceed two percent of gross receipts (gross receipts shall have the same meaning as provided in chapter 12).
Interest means any pecuniary interest and any ownership interest, whether present or future, whole or partial, legal or beneficial, contingent or vested, direct or indirect, and any right, power, or authority of control.
License means the authorization by the governing authority of the city to engage in the sale, consumption, or provision of alcoholic beverages as provided in this chapter. Where required by context, the word "license" includes a permit issued for a specific event or activity.
Licensee means a person, real or artificial, to whom a license is issued or, in the case of a partnership or corporation, the term includes both the partnership or the corporation and the individual designated by such legal entity to serve as its license representative.
Licensee agent means an individual person designated by a partnership or corporation to act as its representative/applicant and on its behalf on all matters related to the alcohol license. A licensee agent must have sufficient involvement with the partnership or corporation to have supervisory authority over the day-to-day operations of the licensed premises. For the purposes of this chapter, any reference to the term applicant or licensee also includes the licensee agent.
Limited food service restaurant means any establishment that meets all of the requirements of a restaurant but does not meet the requirements of an eating establishment. A limited food service restaurant must derive at least 30 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food.
Limited tap license means an on-premises alcoholic beverage license for an establishment that does not sell food prepared on the premises and that provides a limited selection of craft beers on tap for consumption on premises only. An establishment with a limited tap license is limited to having five or fewer beer taps. Establishments with a limited tap license must limit consumption for any individual to a maximum of 48 ounces within a calendar day and must obtain approval from the fire marshall and building official in accordance with applicable codes.
Liter means the metric measurement currently used by the United States.
Liquor. For purposes of this chapter, the term liquor may be used interchangeably with the terms distilled spirits and spirituous liquor and will be deemed to have the same meaning.
Live entertainment or entertainment means music, comedy, readings, dancing, acting, organized fighting, or other entertainment, excluding adult entertainment, performed on the premises of a licensed establishment. This classification includes dancing by patrons to live or recorded music.
Major shareholder means a person that owns or controls a 20 percent or more interest in a business establishment.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, also known as Japanese rice wine, which shares a similar manufacturing process to beer and malt beverages but which typically has more than 14 percent of alcohol by volume. The term malt beverage is used interchangeably with beer. Throughout this chapter, any reference to malt beverage shall be deemed to include beer and/or alcoholic consumables that contain malt beverages.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer, or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. The term "manufacturer" also means:
(1)
In the case of distilled spirits or liquor, any person engaged in distilling, rectifying, or blending any distilled spirits; provided that a vintner that blends wine and distilled spirits to produce a fortified wine shall not be considered a manufacturer of distilled spirits or liquor; but will be considered a vintner;
(2)
In the case of beer, any brewer; and
(3)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Micro-brewery means a small-scale establishment in which not more than 15,000 barrels of craft beer are manufactured or brewed in a calendar year. Microbreweries sell to the public through wholesalers or directly to the consumer through carry-out package and/or on-site tap-room or tasting room sales. Microbreweries must comply with state law restrictions related to the quantities of alcoholic beverages that may be sold directly to the consumer at retail.
Micro-distillery means a small-scale establishment in which not more than 15,000 barrels of distilled spirits are manufactured in a calendar year. Micro-distilleries sell to the public through wholesalers or directly to the consumer through carry-out package and/or on-site tasting room sales. Micro-distilleries must comply with state law restrictions related to the quantities of alcoholic beverages that may be sold directly to the consumer at retail.
Nightclub means an establishment whose primary business is the provision of alcoholic beverages and live entertainment or patron dancing and not the consumption of food. A place that derives 75 percent or more of its total annual gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises and cover charges or entry fees and does not meet the definition of any other establishment qualified to hold a license under this chapter will be presumed to be a nightclub. Nightclubs are prohibited in the city.
Nonprofit civic organization means an organization which is an exempt organization under Section 501(c) or (d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Off-premises beer/wine retailer or store means any person that sells or provides beer and/or wine to the public in unbroken packages or in growlers or crowlers, not for consumption on-premises and not for resale.
Off-premises distilled spirits retailer or store means any person that sells or provides to the public distilled spirits in unbroken packages, not for consumption on-premises and not for resale.
On-premises consumption retailer means any person that sells or provides to the public alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises, only to consumers and not for resale.
Open container area means a specified area adjacent to and designated for common use by multiple eating establishments, food vendors or restaurants for their patrons. Unless otherwise provided, open container areas are restricted to the city's special districts and allow for limited outside consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Outdoor dining area means an outdoor dining space in which an on-premises licensee serves food and beverages as part of the operation of the licensed premises. Except as otherwise provided, the outdoor dining area must be located immediately adjacent to the licensed premises. An outdoor dining area may include a patio, city approved sidewalk seating, or a designated dining area within the exclusive control of the licensee, and may be separated from the licensee's premises, if at all, only by a sidewalk. No part of an outdoor dining area shall be located within any public right-of-way without permission of the city.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container. The term "retail package alcoholic beverages" includes all alcoholic beverages in their original containers or in a growler or crowler and sold at retail to the final consumer and not for resale.
Park means any public lands owned, controlled, or operated by the city, the state, or any county of the state, in and upon which play facilities are provided for the recreation and enjoyment of the general public.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, legal entity, or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private or quasi-public.
Police department means the chief of police and any police officers.
Premises means the definite, closed, or partitioned-in location (whether room, shop, or building) wherein alcoholic beverages are sold, provided, or consumed pursuant to this chapter and in accordance with state law. Premises also includes any area (such as a sidewalk café, outdoor dining area, courtyard, or patio) immediately adjacent to the main licensed facility and located on property owned or leased by such licensee.
Private club means any nonprofit association organized and existing under state law and exempt from federal income taxes pursuant to section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and which:
(1)
Has been in existence for at least one year prior to the filing of the application for a license pursuant to this chapter;
(2)
Has at least 75 regular dues-paying members;
(3)
Owns, hires, or leases a building or space within a building for the reasonable use of its members with:
a.
A suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment; and
b.
A sufficient number of employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests;
(4)
Has no member, officer, agent, or employee directly or indirectly receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond a fixed salary.
Registered agent means a natural person age 21 years or older and residing in Fulton County, or any county that borders Fulton County, who is designated by a licensed establishment to receive service of process on its behalf. Notice or demand required or permitted by law or under this chapter may be served upon the licensee, registered agent, or owner.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served to patrons, without sleeping accommodations, including a cafeteria, with such place being provided with an adequate and sanitary full service kitchen and dining room equipment, having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its patrons. At least one meal per day shall be served at least six days per week, with the exception of holidays, vacations, and periods of redecorating, and the serving of those meals shall be a principal portion of the business conducted, with the serving of alcoholic beverages as only incidental thereto. The restaurant seating area must be at least 40 percent of the gross square footage of the restaurant facility. Seating space located outside of the main structure (i.e. patios, decks, etc.) shall not be included in calculating seating space. In order to be considered a "full service" restaurant, the business must also meet the requirements of an eating establishment.
School, school building, or educational building for the purposes of determining distance requirements for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall mean a state, county, city, or church school building, or such buildings at such school in which are taught subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of the state and which are public schools and private schools as defined in O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690(b). The term "school building" includes only those structures in which instruction is offered.
Seller/server permit means an authorization granted to an individual by the city to cork, dispense, sell, serve, take orders, and/or mix alcoholic beverages in the city.
Service area means the portion of an indoor recreational establishment located within the same building or structure and adjacent to an eating establishment, private club, or restaurant. To the extent that such eating establishment, private club, or restaurant holds an on-premises consumption alcoholic beverage license, the consumption of alcoholic beverages within the service area is permitted.
Shopping center means a collection of multiple commercial establishments planned and developed as a unit for which common parking facilities are provided on the site. A shopping center shall also include a mall or strip center.
Special district has the same meaning as provided in section 4-211 of this chapter.
Special event has the same meaning as provided in section 64-1.
Special event alcohol permit means an alcoholic beverage permit issued for a specific location for a limited amount of time and a limited number of days.
Specialty gift shop means any retail shop that deals in the sale of foods, specialty foods and gifts that derives not more than 15 percent of its gross sales from the sale of packaged gift baskets containing non-alcohol related items such as flowers, plants, food or similar items which also contain unbroken containers of beer and/or wine. To qualify for an off-premises alcohol license, a specialty shop must have an interior floor area of not more than 5,000 square feet (inclusive of storage), of which more than 60 percent of interior floor area is devoted to the display for sale of non-alcoholic beverages. A specialty gift shop may not offer check cashing services; maintain a drive-thru window; or maintain on the premises for sale any of the following: liquor, beers containing more than six percent alcohol by volume, gasoline, diesel fuel, tires, lottery tickets or related games of chance, or tobacco.
Spirituous liquor. For purposes of this chapter, the term spirituous liquor may be used interchangeably with the terms distilled spirits and liquor and will be deemed to have the same meaning.
Sports club means an association or corporation organized and existing under state law, organized and operated primarily to provide a location for the patrons thereof to engage in sporting events.
(1)
To qualify for an on-premises consumption retailer's license, a sports club must have been actively in operation within the city at least two years prior to an application for license under this chapter; provided, however, that the two-year operational requirement shall not apply to golf courses or golf club corporations where the selling or the serving of alcoholic beverages is to take place on the golf course premises.
(2)
A sports club organized or operated primarily for serving alcoholic beverages shall not qualify for licensing under this chapter and shall not be permitted to serve alcoholic beverages at any time.
3)
Unless otherwise indicated, a sports club licensee shall comply with all other requirements imposed upon on-premises consumption retailers.
Standard on-premises consumption retailer means any licensee holding a beer/wine/liquor COP license or a beer/wine COP license.
Tasting room means an outlet for the promotion of wine produced by a Georgia Farm Winery by providing samples of such wine to the public and for the sale of such wine at retail for consumption on-premises and for sale in closed packages for consumption off-premises. Samples of wine may be given complimentary or for a fee.
Tax means the tax imposed by the city upon any dealer in alcoholic beverages for each calendar month of the year.
Temporary alcoholic beverage license means a license provided to an applicant that applies for an alcoholic beverage license, complies with the requirements set forth in this chapter, and who, in the city manager's discretion, appears to meet the criteria for receiving a license. Temporary licenses are intended to aid the applicant in opening for business within a short time after passing all required inspections. A temporary license is only valid for 90 days and may be revoked at any time.
Underage person means an individual who is less than 21 years of age.
Vendor means any establishment licensed to provide or sell alcoholic beverages at retail under this chapter.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person that sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, off-premises retail dealers, or on-premises consumption retailers.
Wine or vinous beverage means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, grapes, or honey either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. These terms include, but are not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, and special natural wines, rectified wines, other like products, and sake, which is an alcoholic beverage often manufactured through a process similar to that of beer but produced from rice and often containing greater than 14 percent alcohol by volume. These terms do not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at the point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to this definition. Throughout this chapter, any reference to wine shall be deemed to include alcoholic consumables that contain wine.
Wine market shall have the same definition as set forth in the definition for craft beer and/or wine market.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Sec. 4-3. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall apply to the corporate limits of the city and outside the city limits in all territories to which the jurisdiction of the city extends.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Sec. 4-4. - Severability.
If any provision, clause, sentence or paragraph of this chapter, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, shall be held invalid and unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of the provisions of this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid provisions or application and, to this end, the provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable.
( Ord. No. 20-12-462 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-21-2020)
Secs. 4-5—4-9. - Reserved.
