DIVISION 14. - A MEDIUM DENSITY APARTMENT DISTRICT

Sec. 64-691. - Scope and intent.
The regulations set forth in this division are the A district regulations. Article IX should be consulted to determine uses and minimum standards for uses allowed by administrative permit or use permit. The A district is intended to provide land areas for medium density apartment dwellings which will:
(1)
Encourage attractive apartment development.
(2)
Encourage the provision of recreation areas and facilities.
(3)
Be located in areas of moderate to intense development near retail shopping, schools and major thoroughfares.
(4)
Be located so as to provide a transition between moderate density residential areas and high density residential areas or between moderate density residential areas and nonresidential areas.
Sec. 64-692. - Use regulations.
Within the A district, land and structures shall be used in accordance with standards herein. Any use not specifically designated as a permitted use in this section or as a use allowed by administrative permit or use permit shall be prohibited.
(1)
Permitted uses. Structures and land may be used for only the following purposes:
a.
Single-family dwelling.
b.
Two-family dwelling.
c.
Triplex.
d.
Quadruplex.
e.
Townhouse.
f.
Multifamily dwelling.
g.
Roominghouse and boardinghouse.
h.
Convalescent home/nursing home/hospice.
i.
Personal care home.
j.
Medical related lodging.
k.
Group residence.
(2)
Accessory uses. A structure or land may be used for uses customarily incidental to any permitted use and a dwelling may be used for a home occupation.
Sec. 64-693. - Development standards.
(a)
Height regulations. Buildings shall be no higher than 45 feet or three stories, whichever is higher, except when a use permit to exceed the maximum height is approved.
(b)
Minimum front yard shall be 40 feet from right-of-way.
(c)
Minimum side yard shall be as follows:
(1)
Adjacent to interior lot line: 25 feet.
(2)
Adjacent to street: 40 feet.
(d)
Minimum rear yard shall be 25 feet.
(e)
Minimum land area or lot size per unit shall be 2,000 square feet.
(f)
Minimum width shall be 200 feet throughout depth from front to rear lot line.
(g)
Minimum lot frontage shall be 35 feet adjoining a street.
(h)
Maximum density shall be 14 units per gross acre.
(i)
Minimum heated floor area per unit shall be as follows:
(1)
Single-family dwelling: 1,100 square feet.
(2)
Two-family dwelling: 800 square feet.
(3)
Efficiency or studio: 450 square feet.
(4)
All other multifamily dwellings: 700 square feet.
(j)
Minimum accessory structure requirements shall be as follows:
(1)
Single-family and two-family uses. Accessory structures may be located in the rear and side yards only but shall not be located within a minimum yard.
(2)
Multifamily uses. Accessory structures may be located in the rear yard only but shall not be located within a minimum yard.
(k)
Maximum lot coverage. The area of the footprint of all buildings and parking shall not exceed 40 percent of the total land area.
(l)
Minimum building separation. All building separations shall be as specified by the city's building code.
Sec. 64-694. - A district subdivision.
In the A zoning district, dwellings proposed to be sold with the lot upon which the dwelling is located shall comply with the city's subdivision regulations.
Sec. 64-695. - Other regulations.
The following headings contain provisions applicable to the A district:
(1)
Development regulations: article XVII of this zoning ordinance.
(2)
Exceptions: article II, division 3 of this zoning ordinance.
(3)
Floodplain management: article IV of this zoning ordinance.
(4)
Off-street parking and loading: article VIII of this zoning ordinance.
(5)
Outside storage: article II, division 3 of this zoning ordinance.
(6)
Landscape area and buffer regulations: article III of this zoning ordinance.
(7)
River protection: Metropolitan River Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq.
(8)
Signs: article XVI of this zoning ordinance.
Secs. 64-696—64-714. - Reserved.
