DIVISION 26. - H HISTORIC DISTRICT

Sec. 64-952. - Scope and intent.
The regulations set forth in this division are the H district regulations. The H district is intended to allow for a historic structure to be used, protected, renovated and preserved, based on its historic value to the community. It may allow a specific, previous use to continue in a structure where that use would be considered nonconforming as defined in the current City of Milton Zoning Ordinance. This designation will help preserve the rich traditions of history and culture evident in Milton's original settlement.
(Ord. No. 11-12-121, § 1, 12-19-2011)
Sec. 64-953. - Use regulations.
Within the H district, land and structures shall be used in accordance with standards herein.
(a)
When approving H district classification for a property, the Milton City Council shall designate as a condition of zoning any limitations on the use of the subject property or structures located thereon. If no such condition is included, the use of the subject property shall be limited to the most intense use allowed on any property adjacent to the subject property.
(b)
H district classification shall only be available for property on which a proposed historic use would be deemed non-conforming under the existing zoning classification. Existence of the historic use of the subject property may be established by, among other things, historic pictures of the subject property, deeds, bills of sale, and personal affidavits. In the event that personal affidavits are submitted as part of the H district zoning application, such affidavits shall be supplemental to other evidence of historic use and may not be the sole evidence of same.
(c)
The proposed historic use shall be limited to those historic structures identified on the subject property and may not be expanded.
(d)
Any structure for which a non-conforming historic use is proposed must first be designated as historic by the City of Milton Historic Preservation Commission. The historic designation process must be completed prior to the city accepting a rezoning application for the subject property, unless the community development director determines that it is in the best interest of the city to process the designation and zoning applications together because of the risk of probable demolition.
(e)
The proposed historic use shall be compatible with the surrounding land uses.
(f)
The proposed historic use shall not result in the removal of historical characteristics of the structure or site, including mature landscaping.
(Ord. No. 11-12-121, § 1, 12-19-2011)
Sec. 64-954. - Development standards.
In order to allow for the unique nature of the properties receiving the H district classification, there are no district-specific development standards. However, all other requirements of the subject property's overlay district and the City of Milton Zoning Ordinance, including, but not limited to those identified in section 64-955, shall be maintained. In addition, the Milton City Council shall consider the subject property's overlay district and City of Milton Zoning Ordinance as it pertains to the proposed historic use, and may adopt reasonable conditions of zoning with respect to the following, without the need for a variance:
(a)
Maximum structure height;
(b)
Minimum lot area;
(c)
Maximum density;
(d)
Minimum lot width;
(e)
Minimum development frontage;
(f)
Minimum lot frontage;
(g)
Minimum heated floor area;
(h)
Minimum front yard setback;
(i)
Minimum side corner setback;
(j)
Minimum side yard setback;
(k)
Minimum rear setback;
(l)
Accessory structure requirements;
(m)
Buffer requirements;
(n)
Parking requirements;
(o)
Parking lot tree requirements;
(p)
Lighting requirements;
(q)
Fencing requirements;
(r)
Signage limitations.
Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary found in the City of Milton Zoning Ordinance, the zoning conditions adopted by the Milton City Council shall have precedence over any conflicting requirement, regulation or standard found in either the overlay district regulations or the City of Milton Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 11-12-121, § 1, 12-19-2011)
Sec. 64-955. - Other regulations.
The following headings contain provisions applicable to the H district:
(1)
Development regulations: Article XVII of this zoning ordinance.
(2)
Exceptions: Article II, division 3 of this zoning ordinance.
(3)
Floodplain management: Article IV of this zoning ordinance.
(4)
Off-street parking and loading: Article VIII of this zoning ordinance.
(5)
Outside storage: Article II, division 2 of this zoning ordinance.
(6)
Landscape area and buffer regulations: Article III of this zoning ordinance.
(7)
Signs: Article XVI of this zoning ordinance.
(8)
Noise study report: Section 64-2131.
(Ord. No. 11-12-121, § 1, 12-19-2011)
Secs. 64-956—64-970. - Reserved.
