DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 64-389. - Districts established.
In order to regulate the location of structures, the height and bulk of structures, the use and intensity of use of lots and structures, and to regulate open spaces and aesthetics, the city is divided into zoning districts which are individually described in this zoning ordinance. Those districts are set forth in the following table and subdivisions from lowest to highest intensity. Within the listing are individual zoning districts which are no longer active but which continue to apply to properties zoned in those classifications. Zoning districts as of the date of adoption of this zoning ordinance of amendment are as follows:
EXPAND
District Approved Use
Suburban A Single-family dwelling
Suburban B Single-family dwelling
Suburban C Single-family dwelling
R-1 Single-family dwelling
R-2 Single-family dwelling
AG-1 Agricultural
R-2A Single-family dwelling
R-3 Single-family dwelling
R-3A Single-family dwelling
R-4A Single-family dwelling
R-4 Single-family dwelling
R-5 Single-family dwelling
R-5A Single-family dwelling
R-6 Two-family dwelling
NUP Neighborhood unit plan
CUP Community unit plan
MHP Mobile home park
O-I Office and institutional
TR (old) Townhouse residential
TR Townhouse residential
A Medium density apartment
A-1 Apartment dwelling
A-L Apartment limited dwelling
A-O Apartment office
MIX Mixed use
C-1 Community business
C-2 Commercial
M-1 Light industrial
M-1A Industrial park
M-2 Heavy industrial
  Sec. 64-390. - Boundaries.
The boundaries of the several zoning districts are shown on the city zoning maps. Street rights-of-way shall serve as district boundaries adjoining property lines, and all such rights-of-way shall not be zoned. Inconsistencies between legal boundary descriptions submitted at the time of rezoning and lot lines identified from more recent surveys shall be interpreted to attach the zoning to the legal lot.
Sec. 64-391. - Zoning text kept on file with city clerk; copies.
The official text of the city zoning ordinance shall be kept on file by the city clerk. The community development department shall provide all city departments with copies of amendments within 15 days of approval by the city council, and shall provide a subscription and update service for the public.
Sec. 64-392. - Zoning maps.
The zoning maps and all information contained thereon are part of this zoning ordinance and have the same force and effect as if fully set forth and described herein. The zoning maps are on file with the community development department.
Sec. 64-393. - Territory added.
All unincorporated territory which may be annexed to the city or which may be unincorporated from a municipality within Fulton County shall be classified in the R-1, single-family dwelling district until, as applicable, the territory may be more appropriately zoned by the city council based upon a staff recommendation with consideration given to the suggestion of the comprehensive plan land use map or zonings of adjacent properties in the city.
Sec. 64-394. - Abandonment.
Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is abandoned by the city or state, the zoning district adjoining such street, alley or public way shall be extended to the center of such public way.
Sec. 64-395. - Uses prohibited in all zoning districts.
modified
In all zoning districts the following uses are considered objectionable and are prohibited: Bars and nightclubs, fortune telling establishment, massage parlor, pool hall, escort and dating services, vape shops, nonstructural consumer fireworks retail sales facility, and tattoo and body art or piercing establishment.
(Ord. No. 11-06-102, § 1, 6-20-2011; Ord. No. 19-03-389 , § 1, 3-18-2019; Ord. No. 20-06-426 , § 1, 6-1-2020; Ord. No. 20-11-458 , § 1, 11-16-2020)
Secs. 64-396—64-413. - Reserved.
