DIVISION 16. - O-I OFFICE INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT

Sec. 64-728. - Scope and intent.
The regulations in this division are the O-I district regulations. Article IX should be consulted to determine uses and minimum standards for uses allowed by administrative permit or use permit. The O-I district is intended to provide land areas for office and institutional uses where proximity to residential, public, commercial and other land uses, and existing and projected traffic patterns make it desirable to locate office and institutional uses.
Sec. 64-729. - Use regulations.
Within the O-I district, land and structures shall be used in accordance with standards herein. Any use not specifically designated as a permitted use in this section or as a use allowed by administrative permit or use permit shall be prohibited.
(1)
Permitted uses. Structures and land may be used for the following purposes:
a.
Single-family dwelling.
b.
Two-family dwelling.
c.
Roominghouse and boardinghouse.
d.
Art gallery.
e.
Assembly hall.
f.
Church, temple or other place of worship.
g.
Clinic.
h.
Community center building.
i.
Convalescent center/nursing home/hospice.
j.
Dancing school.
k.
Day care facility.
l.
Financial establishment.
m.
Funeral home.
n.
Group residence.
o.
Gymnasium.
p.
Health club/spa.
q.
Hospital.
r.
Hotel.
s.
Institutions of higher learning, business colleges, music conservatories, and similar institutions.
t.
Library.
u.
Motel.
v.
Museum.
w.
Office.
x.
Parking garage/deck.
y.
Parking lot.
z.
Personal care home.
aa.
Recording studio.
bb.
Research laboratory.
cc.
Stadium.
dd.
Thrift institution.
(2)
Accessory uses. Structures and land may be used for uses customarily incidental to any permitted use and a dwelling may be used for a home occupation. No more than 25 percent of the total floor area of a building may be devoted to storage.
a.
Accessory retail and service uses shall be located within a building with a majority of the floor area designed for office uses. Accessory uses shall be located wholly within the principal buildings with no outdoor advertising except that a car wash, detail shop or service station may be located inside a parking garage as long as such uses are not visible from the exterior of the parking garage.
b.
Retail and service uses permitted shall be limited to employee convenience, business-oriented retail, and service establishments such as computer hardware and software companies, commercial art, drafting, travel agencies, office equipment and supply stores, reproduction services, stenographic services, typing services, messenger services, delivery services, telecommunications sales and teleconferencing centers, personnel services and training centers, florists, gift shops, tailor shops, radio and television repair shops, shoe repair shops and barbershops or beauty shops. Restaurants are accessory whenever office and institutional floor area is at least 100,000 square feet.
1.
Fast food restaurants shall be limited to no more than ten percent of the total floor area devoted to retail and service business uses, and shall not occupy more than ten percent of any floor in a building.
2.
A drugstore is accessory, provided only drugs, prescription medicines, medicinal supplies and pharmaceutical products shall be sold.
Sec. 64-730. - Development standards.
(a)
Height regulations. Buildings shall be no higher than 60 feet or four stories, whichever is higher, except when a use permit to exceed the maximum height is approved.
(b)
Minimum front yard shall be 40 feet.
(c)
Minimum side yard shall be as follows:
(1)
Adjacent to street side line: 40 feet.
(2)
Adjacent to interior side line: 20 feet.
(d)
Minimum rear yard shall be 25 feet.
(e)
Minimum lot area per dwelling shall be as follows:
(1)
Single-family dwelling: 18,000 square feet.
(2)
Two-family dwelling: 18,000 square feet.
(f)
Minimum lot width shall be 100 feet for residential use only.
(g)
Minimum O-I lot frontage shall be as follows:
(1)
Adjoining a street: 100 feet.
(2)
Adjoining a street for residential uses: 35 feet.
(h)
Minimum heated floor area shall be as follows:
(1)
Single-family dwelling: 1,100 square feet.
(2)
Two-family dwelling: 800 square feet.
(i)
Minimum accessory structure requirements:
(1)
Single-family and two-family uses. Accessory structures may be located in the rear or side yards only but shall not be located within a minimum yard.
(2)
Multifamily use. Accessory structures shall not be located in the minimum front yard.
(j)
Maximum lot coverage. The area of the footprint of all buildings and parking shall not exceed 70 percent of the total land area.
Sec. 64-731. - Other regulations.
The following headings contain provisions applicable to the O-I district:
(1)
Development regulations: article XVII of this zoning ordinance.
(2)
Exceptions: article II, division 3 of this zoning ordinance.
(3)
Floodplain management: article IV of this zoning ordinance.
(4)
Off-street parking and loading: article VIII of this zoning ordinance.
(5)
Outside storage: article II, division 2 of this zoning ordinance.
(6)
Landscape area and buffer regulations: article III of this zoning ordinance.
(7)
River protection: Metropolitan River Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq.
(8)
Signs: article XVI of this zoning ordinance.
(9)
Noise study report: section 64-2131.
Secs. 64-732—64-750. - Reserved.
