ARTICLE IV. - MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Att. A of an ordinance adopted April 26, 2016, repealed the former Art. IV, §§ 22-150—22-161, and enacted a new article as set out herein. The former Art. IV pertained to similar subject matter and derived from an ordinance adopted March 26, 2013.

Sec. 22-150. - Definitions.
For purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
Accredited school of massage: An educational program or course of study of not less than 500 hours in duration which is accredited by the Commission on Massage Training Accreditation/Approval (COMTAA) or recognized by a state licensing agency such as the Nonpublic Post-Secondary Education Commission of the State of Georgia. The curriculum of such program or course of study shall include, but not be limited to, massage theory and technique, anatomy and physiology.
Applicant: Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity applying for a regulatory fee certificate to practice massage, or operate a massage establishment as defined herein.
Employee: Any person over 18 years of age; including a massage therapist, who renders any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and receives compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
Massage or massage therapy: The application of a system of structured touch, pressure, movement, and holding to the soft tissue of the body in which the primary intent is to enhance or restore health and well-being. The term includes complementary methods, including without limitation the external application of water, superficial heat, superficial cold, lubricants, salt scrubs, or other topical preparations and the use of commercially available electromechanical devices which do not require the use of transcutaneous electrodes and which minim or enhance the actions possible by the hands; the term also includes determining whether referral to another health care provider is appropriate. Massage therapy shall not include the use of ultrasound, fluidotherapy, laser, and other methods of deep thermal modalities.
Massage establishment: Any commercial establishment having a source of income or compensation derived from the practice of massage, as defined in this section, and which has fixed a place of business where any person, firm, association, or corporation engages in, advertises or carries on any of the activities defined as "massage or massage therapy."
Massage therapist: A person who administers massage or massage therapy for compensation.
Outcall massage service: Providing any of the services which constitute massage as defined above from or at any place or location other than a fixed place of business licensed as such under this chapter as a massage establishment.
Patron: Any person over 18 years who receives a massage under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he will pay money or give any other consideration therefor.
Physical therapist: A person licensed by the State of Georgia to practice physical therapy as defined by the O.C.G.A. § 43-33-3.
Regulatory fee certificate: A certificate required by the city to operate a massage establishment as set forth herein. The certificate shall be in addition to a city business/occupation tax license. Each therapist meeting the qualifications and certification set forth below shall be deemed to hold a certificate to practice massage in the city.
Sexual or genital area: Genitals, pubic area, anus, or perineum of any person, or the vulva or breast of a female.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-151. - Regulatory fee certificate and business license requirements.
(a)
A regulatory fee certificate and business license is required for any person, firm, corporation or other entity operating a massage establishment. Such applicant must be at least 18 years of age, employ one (which may include him/herself) or more massage therapists meeting the requirements set forth in (a) above, and if a corporation, is an officer of the corporation which is organized and authorized to do business pursuant to the laws of the State of Georgia. The applicant to operate a massage establishment must be the owner of the premises wherein the business will be conducted or the holder of a lease thereon for the period to be covered by the certificate.
(b)
An applicant and each massage therapist employed at a massage establishment must be of good moral character and a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence for at least one-year prior to application. Each massage therapist employed at an establishment for the purposes of providing massage therapy shall be licensed to practice massage therapy in the state or the holder of a valid provisional permit issued by the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 42-24A-9.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-152. - Application requirements; investigation; contents.
In addition to the requirements contained in section 22-154, every applicant for a regulatory fee certificate and business license to practice massage, or to maintain, operate or conduct a massage establishment shall file an application under oath with the city upon a form provided by the city. Copies of the application shall within five days be referred to the appropriate parties and/or departments. These departments shall, within 30 days, inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage establishment and shall make written verification to the code enforcement officer concerning compliance with the codes of the city which they administer. The police department shall also make an investigation of the applicant's character and qualifications. Each application shall contain the following information:
(1)
A definition of service to be provided;
(2)
The location, mailing address and all telephone numbers where the business is to be conducted;
(3)
The name and residence of each applicant;
a.
If the applicant is a corporation, the names and residence address of each of the officers and directors of the corporation and of each stockholder owning more than ten percent of the stock of the corporation, and the address of the corporation itself, if difference from the address of the establishment;
b.
If the applicant is a partnership, the names and residence addresses of each of the partners, including limited partners, and the address of the partnership itself, if different from the address of the massage establishment;
(4)
The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address of the applicant, including stockholders and partners if applicable;
(5)
Proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age, including stockholders and partners if applicable;
(6)
Individual or partnership applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair, and sex;
(7)
Copy of identification such as driver's license and social security card, including stockholders and partners if applicable;
(8)
Any applicant for a business license under this article is required to submit to the police for a background investigation, fingerprinting and a portrait photograph. If the applicant is other than a sole proprietor, all partners, officers, managers and stockholders holding a ten percent or more interest in the company shall be subject to the provisions of this article. Each applicant authorizes the city and its agents to secure from any court, law enforcement agency, or other public agency his criminal and civil history and to use such information in determining whether the certificate applied for shall be issued. Each applicant further authorizes the city and its agents to use such information in any public hearing with respect to the certificate applied for, whether before or after the issuance of the certificate. Each applicant waives any rights which he would otherwise have to preclude the city or its agents from obtaining and using such information, and each applicant further waives any liability of the city or its agents from obtaining and using such information. A $150.00 fee is to be submitted to the police department for a background check and photograph;
(9)
Business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the three years immediately preceding the date of application, including stockholders and partners if applicable;
(10)
The massage or similar business license history of the applicant; whether such person, in previously operating in this or another city, county or state, has had a business license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation;
(11)
All criminal convictions other than misdemeanor traffic violations, including the dates of convictions, nature of the crimes and place convicted;
(12)
The name and address of each massage therapist who is or will be employed in the establishment;
(13)
The applicant must furnish a diploma and certificate of graduation from a recognized school as defined in this article; however, if the applicant will not engage in the practice of massage as defined herein, such applicant need not provide diploma or certificate of graduation;
(14)
The name and address of any massage business or other establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be given in paragraph (c) wherein the business or profession of massage is carried on;
(15)
A description of any other business to be operated on the same premises or adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant;
(16)
Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the permit;
(17)
Such other identification and information necessary to discover the truth of the matters required to be set forth in the application;
(18)
The holder of a regulatory fee certificate to operate a massage establishment shall notify the code enforcement officer of each change in any data required to be furnished by this article within ten days after such change occurs.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-153. - Inspection authorized.
A code enforcement officer or his/her authorized representative(s) or the police may, from time to time, make inspections during regular business hours of massage establishments for the purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this article. It shall be unlawful for any permitee or licensee hereunder to fail to allow the inspection officer or police officer access to the premises or to hinder the officer in any manner.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-154. - Operating requirements; unlawful acts.
(a)
The premises shall be kept clean, neat, and sanitary and shall comply with all sanitary and health requirements of the State of Georgia, Gwinnett County, and the city.
(b)
Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the reception area in a location available to all prospective customers.
(c)
Ordinary beds or mattresses shall not be permitted in any establishment.
(d)
All employees, massage therapists and other persons on the premises, with the exception of customers, shall be completely clothed at all times when administering a massage. For the purposes of this requirement, "completely clothed" shall mean having on the upper portion of the body appropriate undergarments and either a blouse or shirt which shall cover all the upper body save the arms and neck and shall mean having on the lower body appropriate undergarments plus either pants or skirt which must cover from the waist down to a point at least two inches above the knee. Clothes must be completely non-transparent.
(e)
During business hours, it is unlawful to block or obstruct the view into any establishment by tinting or covering windows and/or doors as to prevent an open view into the premises.
(f)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or provided to customers on the premises.
(g)
It is unlawful for any person in a massage establishment to place his or her hands upon, to touch with any part of his or her body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage a sexual or genital area, as defined in this article, of any person or to act in a manner intended to arouse, appeal to or gratify the lust or passions or sexual desires.
(h)
It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to patronize any massage establishment unless such person carries with him at the time of such patronage, a written order, provided by a regularly licensed physician, directing the or written permission of the underage person's parent or guardian.
(i)
It is unlawful for any person or firm to provide "outcall" massage in any hotel, motel, roominghouse or similar place offering short term lodging to the public.
(j)
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or managing a massage establishment to knowingly cause, allow, or permit in or about such massage establishment any agent, employee or other person under his supervision or control to perform any acts prohibited under this section.
(k)
Notwithstanding any local, state, or federal criminal violation, it is specifically declared that any violation of this article shall constitute a nuisance, the same being subject to abatement in the municipal court of the city, as provided by charter. It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the existence of any nuisance on any property within the city.
(l)
Any provision of state law notwithstanding, a violation of the provisions of this article shall be further punishable as provided in section 1-11 of this Code of Ordinances.
(m)
Any employees present at a massage establishment with a regulatory fee certificate or employees present located at an establishment providing or advertising massage therapy without a regulatory fee certificate may be subject to a criminal background check.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-155. - Hours of operation.
No massage therapist shall engage in such business or profession except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:30 p.m.; nor shall any operator of a massage establishment or business operate the same except within and between those hours. Violations of this section shall be considered under this code as an offense and persons found guilty of such violations shall be punishable within the general limits of punishments as provided by section 1-11.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-156. - Exemptions.
This article shall not apply to the following individuals while engaged in the personal performance of the duties of their respective profession:
(1)
Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, and physical therapists who are duly licensed to practice their respective profession in the state.
(2)
Nurses who are registered under the laws of the state.
(3)
Barbers and beauticians who are duly licensed under laws of this state, except that this exemption shall apply solely to the massaging of the neck, face, scalp, and hair of the customer or client for cosmetic or beautifying purposes.
(4)
Any other person specifically exempted by O.C.G.A. § 42-24A-9.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-157. - Posting of business/occupation tax certificate; transfer of certificate; posting of massage therapist licenses.
(a)
Every person obtaining a business/occupation tax certificate under this chapter shall display such certificate in a prominent place.
(b)
No certificate whether for a massage establishment or a massage therapist shall be transferable or assignable from person to person or from location to location.
(c)
All certificates granted hereunder shall expire on December 31 of that respective year. Certificate holders who desire to renew their certificate shall file application, with the requisite fee heretofore provided, with the city manager or designee for renewal for the ensuing year on the form provided on or by December 31. Any establishment that has previously failed to complete the subject application set forth in section 22-152 shall do so and any establishment that previously completed such application shall update any new information. All certificates granted hereunder shall be for the calendar year.
(d)
The state issued massage therapist license or provisional permit for each massage therapist working in a massage establishment must be displayed in a prominent location.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-158. - Denial, revocation or suspension of business/occupation certificate.
A certificate granted hereunder shall be subject to denial, revocation or suspension. Whenever, in the opinion of the city manager, there is cause to deny, revoke, or suspend this certificate, a written notice of intention to deny, revoke, or suspend the certificate shall be furnished to the holder thereof. A hearing will be scheduled wherein the applicant may present his/her case before the city manager. After the hearing, the city manager may deny, revoke and/or suspend this certificate if, in his/her discretion, denial, revocation and/or, suspension is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the city.
If the decision is adverse to the license holder, he/she may appeal such decision within ten days to a court of competent jurisdiction via a writ of certiorari. If the city manager's decision finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of the certificate, then the appropriate department shall issue the license to the applicant. Such decision shall become effective upon the city manager issuing his/her decision.
(1)
The regulatory fee certificate of massage establishment may be denied, revoked, or suspended upon one or more of the following grounds (but is not limited to such grounds):
a.
Failure of the applicant to meet or maintain initial qualification for obtaining the license;
b.
The applicant is guilty of employing or attempting to employ any person who is not a licensed massage therapist and allowing or permitting such person to administer massage in said establishment;
c.
The premises in which the massage establishment is located are in violation of any of the federal, state, county, or municipal laws designed for the health, protection and safety of the occupants;
d.
The premises are in violation of the building codes;
e.
The applicant or therapist is guilty of fraud in the practice of massage, or fraud or deceit in obtaining a regulatory fee certificate to practice massage therapy;
f.
The applicant or therapist is engaged in the practice of massage therapy under a false or assumed name, or is impersonating another practitioner of a like or different name;
g.
The applicant or therapist is addicted to the habitual use of intoxicating liquors, narcotics or stimulants to such an extent as to incapacitate such person to the extent that he is unable to perform his or her duties;
h.
The applicant or therapist is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading or deceptive advertising or practices;
i.
The original application, or renewal thereof, contains materially false information; or the applicant or therapist have deliberately sought to falsify information contained therein;
j.
The applicant or any of his/her therapists or employees or agents have been convicted or has pled guilty or nolo contendere to a felony or to a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or to any charge of a lascivious nature;
k.
The applicant or any of his/her therapists or employees have allowed to occur or have engaged in a violation of any part of this article or federal, state, county or municipal law;
l.
Failure of the applicant to actively supervise or monitor the conduct of the employees, customers, and others on the premises in order to protect the health, safety, and well-being of the general public and the customers;
m.
The city has revoked a massage/spa establishment license at the premises within the previous 12 months.
n.
Noncompliance with any section of this article;
(3)
Any massage therapist or massage establishment operator who has his or her or its regulatory fee certificate revoked shall be disqualified from reapplying for such a certificate for 12 months immediately following revocation.
(4)
Revocation of a regulatory fee certificate shall automatically revoke the entity's business/occupation tax license.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-159. - Responsibility of owner or operator.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator of any service described herein as "massage" or "massage therapy" to insure that each person employed as a massage therapist shall have in his or her possession a valid permit.
The owner or operator or a person designated by the business licensee of the massage establishment shall maintain a register of all persons employed at the establishment. The list shall identify those employees that are licensed massage therapists and those that are not licensed. For those employees licensed as massage therapists state license number shall be provided along with a photo of the employee. Such registers shall be available at the massage establishment to representatives of the city during regular business hours.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-160. - Record of treatment to be kept.
(a)
It shall be the duty of any person granted a license under this article to maintain correct and accurate records of the names and addresses of the persons receiving treatment, the type of accurate records of the names and addresses of the persons receiving treatment, the type of treatment administered, and the name of the person administering this treatment. These records shall be subject to inspection any time by the city code enforcement office or police department. Records shall be kept for a minimum of three years.
(b)
No massage therapy shall be performed by any massage practitioner in the home of any client or in any place except for the place of business of a licensee hereunder, unless a written memorandum is first made in a log or record at the place of business for the purpose of recording consecutively the date, time of treatment, place of treatment, name and address of person to receive treatment, type of treatment to be received, name of person to render treatment, time the practitioner leaves to render treatment, and the fee charged. The therapist shall record the time each treatment was completed immediately upon his return to the place of business.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-161. - Compliance.
It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person or firm to engage in, conduct or carry on within the city, any business as a massage establishment or to act as a massage technician without first obtaining and possessing a valid permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or without complying with all regulations contained in this chapter.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Sec. 22-162. - Remedies.
(a)
Any premises, building, dwelling or other structure in which a massage establishment or spa is operated or maintained in violation of this article is declared to be a public nuisance, harmful to the public health, safety, and welfare. The city's legal counsel may bring an action in the Superior Court of Gwinnett County to restrain, prohibit, and/or enjoin the use of such premises as a massage establishment in the Superior Court of Gwinnett County.
(b)
The operation of a massage establishment or spa establishment by a partnership, limited liability company, corporation, or other legal entity in violation of the article is declared to be a public nuisance, harmful to the public health, safety, and welfare. The city's legal counsel may bring an action in the Superior Court of Gwinnett County to restrain, prohibit, and/or enjoin such operation of a massage establishment or spa establishment.
(c)
The operation of a massage establishment by a person in violation of this article is declared to be a public nuisance, harmful to the public health, safety, and welfare. The city's legal counsel may bring an action in the Superior Court of Gwinnett County to restrain, prohibit, and/or enjoin such operation of a massage establishment or spa establishment.
(d)
It shall not be necessary, in order to obtain an injunction under the section, to allege or prove that there is not adequate remedy at law or to allege or prove any special injury.
(e)
If the court declares a massage establishment or spa establishment to be a nuisance, or if the court issues an injunction against a massage establishment pursuant to this article, the city shall be entitled, on motion, to recover its reasonable attorney's fees and costs incurred in the bringing of the action.
(Ord. of 4-26-2016, Att. A)
Secs. 22-163—22-170. - Reserved.
