ARTICLE III. - CARNIVALS AND CIRCUSES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 10-161—10-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 10-181. - Application.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to conduct or operate in the city any carnival, circus or other traveling show without first applying to the mayor and city council for a permit therefor, which permit may be issued or refused as provided in this division.
(Ord. No. 740, § 1)
Sec. 10-182. - Business occupation tax license required.
In addition to the permit required by this division, any person coming under the provisions of this article shall obtain a business occupation tax license for any activity coming under the provisions of section 50-161 et seq.
Sec. 10-183. - Information required for operation.
Any person, firm or corporation applying to the mayor and city council for a permit to conduct or operate a carnival in the city shall, either in writing or in person, furnish to the mayor and council the following information:
(1)
The name of the carnival, circus or traveling show, together with the names and home addresses of the owners and managers thereof;
(2)
The name of any local organization sponsoring the appearance of the carnival, circus or traveling show in the city;
(3)
The number of and a detailed description of each show, ride, game, concession and other entertainment or attraction to be offered, and the price of admission thereto;
(4)
Location of the site to be occupied or used in the city, and the length of time and hours they are to be operated in the city;
(5)
Proposed general admission charges;
(6)
A detailed financial statement showing the financial worth and liabilities of each separate owner or partner, and if owned by a corporation, a financial statement of the corporation will be required;
(7)
A description of the type of buildings, tents and other shelters to be provided for use by the public, its resistance to fire, and what fire protection is furnished for the protection of the public;
(8)
A sworn statement from the owner or manager of such carnival, circus or traveling show that no owner, member, employee or operator of any show, ride, game, concession or other entertainment or attraction has ever been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. No. 740, § 2)
Sec. 10-184. - Right of refusal.
Based upon the information furnished as provided in section 10-183, the mayor and city council may grant or refuse to grant a permit for such carnival, circus or traveling show to be operated or conducted in the city, and may require such conditions and terms as they deem necessary to protect the health, morals and welfare of the public, before issuing a permit, and may require the owner thereof to file with the city a public liability insurance policy in an amount to be fixed by city officials, conditioned to pay any damages which any member of the public may suffer from the negligence, willful misconduct or dishonesty of the owner, any employee or operator of any show, ride, game, concession or other entertainment or attraction thereof.
(Ord. No. 740, § 3)
Sec. 10-185. - Power of attorney.
The mayor and city council may require the owner or manager of any carnival, circus or traveling show to file a written power of attorney, appointing a resident of the county, as attorney in fact for the owner, manager, employees and operators thereof, to accept service of any suit filed against them by any member of the public for any injury or damage suffered.
(Ord. No. 740, § 4)
Sec. 10-186. - Fee.
The fee for a permit required by this division shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 740, § 5)
Sec. 10-187. - Unlawful operation.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a carnival, circus or other traveling show in the city without a permit issued under this division, or to furnish any false information or statement to the mayor and city council, or otherwise violate any provision of this article.
(Ord. No. 740, § 6)
Secs. 10-188—10-220. - Reserved.
