Chapter 26 - WATER AND SEWERAGE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule powers of municipality to regulate sewage collection and disposal systems and water treatment systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6)—(7); Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.; dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2; adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections, payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7; city's authority to acquire, construct, extend, operate, maintain and collect fees for water and sewerage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; grants of state funds to municipal corporations for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; executions for collection of assessments for laying sewers, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Tampering with water lines and meters prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any city water line or city water meter for any purpose, including tampering for the avoidance of payment of amounts rightfully due to the city, whether such water meter or water line is within or without the city limits.
(Code 1979, § 6-2-1; Code 1993, § 21-1)
Sec. 26-2. - Knowingly using city water after cutoff prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any property served by the city water system, whether such property is within or without the city limits, or for the owner of such property to make use of the water from the city water system after water service to the premises has been cut off by the city; and any person who knows or has reason to know that such water service has been cut off but who, by means of tampering with the water system done by himself or his agent, or by means of availing himself of the benefits of tampering with the water system done by another person or persons unknown, uses city water after the date of service cutoff, shall be guilty of a violation of this Code.
(Code 1979, § 6-2-2; Code 1993, § 21-2)
Sec. 26-3. - Damages; responsibility for payment.
Whenever the water meters or water lines under the control of the city water system, inside or outside the city limits, show signs of having been tampered with for the purpose of avoiding or reducing the payment of rates, the consumer, occupant of the property or the property owner or owners shall be held responsible on account thereof for payment for repair of damages to the water meter or lines, including the replacement of materials, and shall be held responsible for payment to the city on the basis of a fair estimation of the length of time that such meter or meters or lines have been in defective condition due to tampering, and/or the amount of water used during such estimated period, which amount shall be calculated at twice the average monthly bill for the preceding six months or fraction thereof.
(Code 1979, § 6-2-3; Code 1993, § 21-3)
Sec. 26-4. - Required report of damage to police.
It shall be the duty of the city water superintendent to report all tampering with meters to the city police and the city manager, and to calculate the amount for which the consumer or occupant or property owner should be responsible under section 26-3, and the water superintendent shall present a bill for such amount, showing the date on which the service to the premises had been shut off, to either the consumer, occupant or the property owner, along with notice that if the bill is not paid in five days the water shall be shut off until payment is made in full.
(Code 1979, § 6-2-4; Code 1993, § 21-4)
Sec. 26-5. - Damages; apportionment of payment among persons with interest in land.
(a)
The bill described in section 26-4 may be presented to either the consumer, occupant of the premises or the owner of the property, and all such persons shall be jointly and severally responsible for payment of the bill. The city may collect payment from more than one of the persons having an interest in the property, but in no event shall the amount collected by the city exceed the total amount of the bill. The various parties having an interest in the property may apportion the burden of payment among themselves as they see fit, but it shall be no concern of the city which party ultimately incurs the burden of paying the bill, so long as the bill is paid.
(b)
Any and all unpaid water charges due to the city shall constitute a lien against the real estate served by the facilities. Such lien shall be second only in priority to liens for city and county property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes. This lien shall attach only after the unpaid water charges exceed $250.00.
(Code 1979, § 6-2-5; Code 1993, § 21-5; Ord. of 10-26-1976)
Sec. 26-6. - Cutoff of service.
The consumer, occupant or property owner shall have the right within the aforementioned five days to file a demand for a hearing by the city council or to pay the bill in full, or the water shall be cut off in the most practicable manner designed to make sure that there will be no further unauthorized taking of water from the city water system. If there is a demand for a hearing by the city council filed with the city clerk in the allotted time, the water shall not be cut off until after the hearing at the next regularly scheduled council meeting. A consumer, occupant or property owner who has availed himself of the benefits of the damaged water system shall not be heard at the hearing to deny his financial responsibility on the grounds he did not personally cause the damage. After the hearing, the city council may affirm, reverse or postpone the cutoff order.
(Code 1979, § 6-2-6; Code 1993, § 21-6)
Sec. 26-7. - Removal of meter authorized.
In the event that the city water superintendent shall determine that it is necessary, in order to make sure that water will not continue to be taken from the city water system, to physically remove the water meter or connecting pipe from the premises, in pursuance of his duties under this chapter, the water service shall in no event be restored unless payment is made in advance for reasonable expenses of the city due to such removal and reinstallation of the equipment.
(Code 1979, § 6-2-7; Code 1993, § 21-7)
Sec. 26-8. - Violations and penalties.
Any person convicted of violation of the provisions of section 26-1 or 26-2 upon conviction in the municipal court shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of section 1-8.
(Code 1993, § 21-8)
Sec. 26-9. - Water supply cross connection rule.
(a)
The city adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection Rules of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources Chapter 391-3-5-.13 (Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. R. 391-3-5-.13) of the rules for safe drinking water.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the city to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross connections with the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as established by the city and as approved by the state department of natural resources.
(c)
The representative of the city shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply system of the city for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems thereof for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessees, or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(d)
The city is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in violation of this section exists and to take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the cross connection has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(e)
The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified by this section and by the state and city plumbing code. Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
(f)
This section does not supersede the state plumbing code, but is supplementary to it.
(g)
That any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this section or any written order of the city, in pursuance thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less than $250.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each violation. Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of this section shall occur shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for the purpose of this section.
(Ord. of 4-1-2003, §§ 1—7)
Secs. 26-10—26-36. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER AND SEWER RATES

Sec. 26-37. - Fees; rates; charges.
The fees, rates and charges which are or may be imposed under the provisions of this chapter shall be as set forth by ordinance in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1993, § 21-31; Ord. No. 05-06-ADM, 12-6-2005)
Editor's note— The schedule of fees and charges containing the water and sewer rates for the city are on file and available for public examination in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 26-38. - Application for water service.
The consumer shall make application for water and/or sewer service, in person, at the city hall, and at the same time shall make a cash security deposit for water and/or sewer service.
(Code 1993, § 21-32; Ord. of 7-1-1986, § 2; Ord. of 10-3-1989)
Sec. 26-39. - Credit of deposit.
After one year's payment of all water and sewer charges in a timely fashion any residential user may apply for and receive a credit upon his water and sewer account in the amount of his initial security deposit. A user who has been delinquent in any payment of his account at any time within the preceding 12 months shall not be eligible for such a credit.
(Code 1993, § 21-33; Ord. of 7-1-1986, § 2; Ord. of 6-2-1987; Ord. of 10-3-1989)
Sec. 26-40. - City's responsibility and liability.
The city shall run a service line from its distribution line to the property line where the distribution line exists or is to be constructed, and runs immediately adjacent and parallel to the property to be served. No service charge will be made for a five-eighths inch by three-fourths inch meter. A proportionately greater charge than the connection fee above will be made for a meter of larger dimensions.
(1)
The city may make connections to service other properties not adjacent to its lines upon payment of reasonable costs for the extensions of its distribution lines as may be required to render such service.
(2)
The city may install its meter at or near the property line or, at the city's option, on the consumer's property within three feet of the property line.
(3)
The city reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer's lines or pipings are installed in such a manner as to prevent cross connections or backflow.
(4)
Under normal conditions the consumer will be notified of any anticipated interruptions of service by the city.
(Code 1993, § 21-34; Ord. of 7-1-1986, § 5)
Sec. 26-41. - Consumer's responsibility and liability.
Water furnished by the city shall be used for consumption by the consumer, members of his household and employees only. The consumer shall not sell water to any other person or permit any other person to use such water. Water shall not be used for irrigation, fire protection, or other purposes, except when water is available in sufficient quantity without interfering with the regular domestic consumption in the area served. Disregard for this rule shall be sufficient cause for refusal and/or discontinuation of service.
(1)
Where the meter or meter box is placed on the premises of a consumer, a suitable place shall be provided by the consumer therefor, unobstructed and accessible at all times to the meter reader.
(2)
On all new consumer services, the consumer shall furnish and maintain a private cutoff valve and backflow prevention device on the consumer's side of the meter.
(3)
The consumer's piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the consumer at the consumer's expense, in a safe and efficient manner, and in accordance with the sanitary regulations of the state health department.
(4)
In order to be received as a consumer and entitled to receive water from the city's water system, all applicants must offer proof that any private wells located on their property are not physically connected to the lines of the city's water system, and all applicants, by becoming consumers of the city, covenant and agree that so long as they continue to be consumers of the city they will not permit the connection of any private wells on their property to the city's water system.
(Code 1993, § 21-35; Ord. of 7-1-1986, § 6)
Sec. 26-42. - Access to premises and extensions of system.
(a)
Duly authorized agents of the city shall have access at all hours to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of installing or removing city property, inspecting piping, reading and testing meters, or for any other purpose in connection with the water service and its facilities and the sewer service and its facilities.
(b)
Extensions to the system shall be made only when the consumer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or conveyed, to the city a permanent easement of right-of-way across any property traversed by the water and sewer lines.
(Code 1993, § 21-36; Ord. of 7-1-1986, § 7)
Sec. 26-43. - Change of occupancy.
Not less than three days' notice must be given, in person or in writing, at the city to discontinue water and sewer service or to change occupancy. The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period is longer. The new occupant shall apply for water service within 48 hours after occupying the premises and failure to do so will make him liable for paying for the water consumed since the last meter reading.
(Code 1993, § 21-37; Ord. of 7-1-1986, § 8)
Sec. 26-44. - Meter reading; billings; collecting.
(a)
Bills to customers for water and sewer service shall be mailed out on such day of each month as may be determined as desirable by the city. Bills shall be paid at the city hall and a failure to receive bills or notices shall not prevent such bills from becoming delinquent nor relieve the consumer from payment of same. The failure of water and/or sewer users to pay charges duly imposed shall result in the automatic imposition of the following penalties:
(1)
Nonpayment after the 15th of the month will result in a penalty of ten percent of the delinquent account.
(2)
Nonpayment after the 25th of the month will result in the water being shut off from the user's property.
(3)
Service disconnected for nonpayment of bills will be restored only after bills are paid in full, such security deposit as may be required by the mayor and council is made, and a service charge paid for each meter reconnected.
(b)
Should the reconnection of service for the situation referenced in subsection (a)(3) of this section fall outside of normal business hours as posted in city hall, the customer will be required to pay a service charge to be paid at the city police department and a receipt shown to the city representative who is called to reconnect service prior to the restoration of such service.
(Code 1993, § 21-38; Ord. of 7-1-1986, § 9; Ord. of 10-3-1989)
Sec. 26-45. - Suspension of service.
When water and sewer service is discontinued and all bills paid, the security deposit shall be refunded to the consumer by the city.
(1)
Upon discontinuation of service for nonpayment of bills, the security deposit will be applied by the city toward settlement of the account. Any balance will be refunded to the consumer; however, if the security deposit is insufficient to cover the bill, the city may proceed to collect the balance in the usual way provided by law for collection of debts.
(2)
The city reserves a right to discontinue its service without notice for the following additional reasons:
a.
To prevent fraud or abuse.
b.
Consumer's willful disregard of the city's rules.
c.
Emergency repairs.
d.
Insufficiency of water supply due to circumstances beyond the city's control.
e.
Legal processes.
f.
Direction of public authorities.
g.
Strike, riot, fire, flood, unavoidable accident.
(Code 1993, § 21-39; Ord. of 7-1-1986, § 10)
Sec. 26-46. - Complaints; adjustments.
If the consumer believes his bill to be in error, he shall present his claim, in person, at the city hall before the bill becomes delinquent. Such claim, if made after the bill has become delinquent, shall not be effective in preventing discontinuation of service as heretofore provided. The consumer may pay such bill under protest and such payment shall not prejudice his claim.
(1)
The city will make a special water meter reading at the request of a consumer for a fee; provided, however, that if such special reading discloses that the meter was overread, no charge will be made.
(2)
If the seal of a meter is broken by other than the city's representative or if the meter fails to register correctly or is stopped for any cause, the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his previous bills and/or from other proper data.
(Code 1993, § 21-40; Ord. of 7-1-1986, § 11)
Secs. 26-47—26-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SEWER USE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-66. - Purpose.
This article regulates the use of public and private sewers and drains, private wastewater disposal, the installation and connection of building sewers, and the discharge of waters and waste into the public sewer system and provides penalties for violations thereof.
(Code 1993, § 21-56; Ord. of 3-7-1989, art. 1)
Sec. 26-67. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ammonia nitrogen (NH3) means the total quantity of ammonia nitrogen as determined by an EPA-approved laboratory procedure, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under EPA-approved laboratory procedures in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of buildings and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal, also called house connection or service connection.
Chemical oxygen demand (COD) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the chemical oxidation of organic matter under EPA approved laboratory procedures expressed in milligrams per liter.
City means the city council, which has jurisdiction over the maintenance and operations of the water and sanitary sewer system within the corporate limits thereof.
Combined sewer means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Customer means every person who is responsible for contracting (expressly or implicitly) with the city in obtaining, having or using sewer connections with, or sewer tap to, the sewer system of the city and in obtaining, having, or using water and other related services furnished by the city for the purpose of disposing of wastewater and sewage through such system. Such terms shall include the occupants of each unit of a multiple-family dwelling unit building as a separate and distinct customer.
Easement means an acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Floatable oil means oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
Flush toilet means the common sanitary flush commode in general use for the disposal of human excrement.
Garbage means the animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
Health officer means the director of the county board of health or other person designated by the board of commissioners and their duly appointed assistants.
Industrial wastes means the wastewater from industrial and/or production processes as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
Infiltration/inflow means groundwater and surface water which leaks into the sewers through cracked pipes, joints, manholes or other openings.
Natural outlet means any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
Normal wastewater means wastewater discharged into the sanitary sewers in which the average concentrations of certain constituents are as follows:
EXPAND
Constituent Units Concentration
Ammonia nitrogen mg/l 0—30
Biochemical oxygen demand mg/l 25—250
Chemical oxygen demand mg/l 0—600
Chlorine demand mg/l 0—15
Color std. units 0—400
Flammables and explosives mg/l 0
Inert suspended solids mg/l 0—125
Oils, fats, greases and wax mg/l 0—100
Petroleum based oils mg/l 0—25
pH std. units 5.5—9.0
Screenable solids and viscous substances mg/l 0
Slug concentrations or flows ratio 1:1—5:1
Temperature deg. F 50—104
Total nonfilterable residue (TSS) mg/l 25—250
    Unless otherwise specifically defined, domestic or sanitary wastes shall be considered to have the constituent concentrations as defined above for normal wastewater.
pH means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration expressed in standard units (SUs).
Pit privy means shored, vertical pit in the earth completely covered with a flytight slab on which is securely located a flytight riser covered with a hinged flytight seat and lid.
Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Public sewer means the common sewer controlled by the city.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater, and surface water that are not intentionally admitted.
Septic tank means a subsurface impervious tank designed to temporarily retain sewage or similar waterborne wastes together with:
(1)
A sewer line constructed with solid pipe, with the joints sealed, connecting the impervious tank with a plumbing stub out; and
(2)
A subsurface system of trenches, piping and other materials constructed to drain the clarified discharge from the tank and distribute it underground to be absorbed or filtered.
Sewage means the spent water of a community. The equivalent term is "wastewater."
Sewage works (sewerage) means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
Slug means any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation and may adversely affect the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater facilities.
Storm drain or storm sewer means a drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source and excluding sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Superintendent means the utilities superintendent or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
Suspended solids or total suspended solids (TSS) means total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtration as approved by EPA and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
Unpolluted water means water of quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
Wastewater means the spent water of a community. From the standpoint of the source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
Wastewater facilities, wastewater treatment plant or wastewater works means the structures, equipment, and processes required to collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent.
Watercourse means a natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either continuously or intermittently.
(Code 1993, § 21-57; Ord. of 3-7-1989, §§ 2.1—2.36; Ord. of 4-2-1991)
Sec. 26-68. - Compliance with regulatory requirements.
The provisions of this article shall not be deemed as alleviating compliance with applicable state and federal regulations. Specific user charge and industrial cost recovery requirements, promulgated pursuant to Public Law 92-500, shall be considered as a part of this article upon official adoption. All nonresidential users will be required to comply with pretreatment standards as outlined in 40 CFR 403.
(Code 1993, § 21-58; Ord. of 3-7-1989, art. 9)
Sec. 26-69. - Conflict of regulations.
In the event a wastewater discharge is made to a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) under the jurisdiction of an approved sewer use ordinance for another governing authority, the more restrictive requirement shall prevail.
(Code 1993, § 21-59; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 13.3)
Sec. 26-70. - Violations generally.
Violations of this article shall be a misdemeanor punishable under the laws of the state. Each day of continuing violation shall be considered a separate offense. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of violation.
(Code 1993, § 21-60; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 10.1)
Sec. 26-71. - Notice of violation—Issuance of order.
In the event of violation of this article, the health officer or authorized employees may verbally instruct the owner as to the necessary corrective action. If the owner fails to carry out verbal instructions in a timely manner or if a serious violation or hazard to public health exists, the health officer or city may issue to the owner a written order stating the nature of the violation, the corrective action, and the time limit for completing the corrective action. The record of the mailing of such notice or order shall be prima facie evidence thereof and failure of such owner or owners to receive same shall in no way affect the validity of any proceedings conducted pursuant to this article.
(Code 1993, § 21-61; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 10.2)
Sec. 26-72. - Same—Failure to comply.
Failure to comply with any written order duly issued by the health officer or city pursuant to this article will constitute a separate misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable as provided by the laws of the state. Compliance with this article is required notwithstanding the fact that a written order might not have been issued.
(Code 1993, § 21-62; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 10.3)
Sec. 26-73. - Same—Hearing authorized.
(a)
Upon the receipt of a notice of a violation of this article and/or an order of the city requiring an act or thing to be done or to cease, the owner or owners of any premises then in question may, in writing, demand a hearing before the city to present the evidence challenging the validity of the city's order. The owner may appear in person, by agent, or by attorney. Such demand must be filed with the city clerk and be made within five days from the receipt of the order being challenged. Upon receipt of a demand for a hearing, the city will set a date, time, and place for such hearing to be not less than 21 days from the date of filing of such demand.
(b)
The hearing provided for in this section shall apply to any customer's complaint, dispute, or challenge of the city's rules, regulations, resolutions, ordinances or policies. Upon the customer's written complaint filed with the clerk, the city shall set a hearing as provided herein or at a time agreed upon by the parties.
(Code 1993, § 21-63; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 10.5)
Sec. 26-74. - Same—Consideration of evidence.
Evidence before the city of any hearing conducted pursuant to section 26-73 shall be admitted in accordance with the rules of evidence of the superior courts of the state; provided, however, the city may take official notice of any order, rule, regulation or any other document, record or entry contained in its official record or minutes for evidentiary purposes.
(Code 1993, § 21-64; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 10.6)
Sec. 26-75. - Same—Effect of decision.
For the purposes of this article, the decisions of the city will prevail in any instance in which there is a conflict between it and the health officer on any issue of sanitation, or the lack of it, and its effect on human health or well-being.
(Code 1993, § 21-65; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 10.7)
Sec. 26-76. - Injunction of violations.
The violation of any provisions of this article may be enjoined by instituting appropriate proceedings for injunction in the courts of competent jurisdiction in this state. Any public nuisance which is injurious to the public health, safety, or comfort may be abated by instituting appropriate proceedings for injunction in the court of competent jurisdiction in this state. Such actions may be maintained notwithstanding the fact that such violation also constitutes a crime, and notwithstanding that other adequate remedies at law exist. Such actions may be instituted in the name of the city.
(Code 1993, § 21-66; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 10.4)
Sec. 26-77. - Authority to disconnect service.
(a)
The city reserves the right to terminate water and wastewater disposal services and disconnect a customer from the system when:
(1)
Acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment process are released into the public sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
(2)
A governmental agency informs the city that the effluent from the wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge into a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is discharging wastewater into the public sewer that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment that is not provided by the city as normal domestic treatment; or
(3)
The customer:
a.
Discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in violation of the permit issued by the approving authority;
b.
Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment process;
c.
Fails to pay monthly bills for sanitary sewer services when due; or
d.
Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes into public sewers.
(b)
Notification processes for discontinuance of service are presented in section 26-191.
(Code 1993, § 21-67; Ord. of 3-7-1989, §§ 12.1, 12.2)
Sec. 26-78. - Emergency termination of service.
In the event of an actual or threatened discharge to the sewerage works of any pollutant which in the opinion of the superintendent presents or may present an imminent and substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, or cause interference with the sewerage works, the superintendent shall immediately notify the industrial customer or other person causing the emergency and request their assistance in the abating of same. The superintendent may temporarily terminate the water and sewer services of such user as is necessary to abate the condition when such action appears reasonably necessary. Such service shall be restored by the superintendent as soon as the emergency situation has been abated or corrected.
(Code 1993, § 21-68; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 12.3)
Sec. 26-79. - Malicious damage.
No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Code 1993, § 21-69; Ord. of 3-7-1989, art. 7)
Sec. 26-80. - Powers and authority of inspectors.
The following powers and authority are established for inspectors:
(1)
Duly authorized employees or agents of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharge to the public sewerage system in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(2)
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in this article, the authorized employees or agents of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by such employees or agents and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required by this article.
(3)
Duly authorized employees or agents of the city bearing power credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds an easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on such easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the fully negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Code 1993, § 21-70; Ord. of 3-7-1989, art. 8)
Sec. 26-81. - Use of public sewers required.
The following requirements are established for the use of public sewers:
(1)
All premises shall be provided, by the owner thereof, with at least one toilet. All toilets shall be kept clean and in a sanitary working condition.
(2)
No person shall dispose of human excrement except in a toilet.
(3)
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other polluted waters, including septic tank effluent or cesspool overflow to any open drain or well-penetrating, water-bearing formation, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
(4)
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(5)
The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city's jurisdiction and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city is hereby required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article, within 30 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that such public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line and access is available.
(6)
All sinks, dishwashing machines, lavatories, basins, showerbaths, bathtubs, laundry tubs, washing machines and similar plumbing fixtures or appliances shall be connected to the public sewer; provided that, where no sewer is available, septic tanks or other private subsurface disposal facilities approved by the health officer may be used.
(Code 1993, § 21-71; Ord. of 3-7-1989, art. 3)
Sec. 26-82. - Service charges.
(a)
Need. It is necessary to fix and collect sewer service charges from customers. Such charges shall be published separate from this article and the revenue received shall be used for operation, maintenance, debt retirement and other authorized expenses.
(b)
Establishment of limits for imposing surcharges. The city shall have the right, as part of its wastewater user charge system, to establish surcharges commencing at the limits set forth below:
EXPAND
Constituent Units Concentration
Ammonia nitrogen mg/l Over 30
Biochemical oxygen demand mg/l Over 250
Under 25
Chemical oxygen demand mg/l Over 600
Chlorine demand mg/l Over 15
Color std. units Over 400
Flammables and explosives None allowed
Inert suspended solids mg/l Over 125
Oils, fats, greases and wax mg/l Over 100
Petroleum based oils mg/l Over 25
pH std. units Over 9.0
Under 5.5
Screenable solids and viscous substances None allowed
Slug concentrations or flows Not applicable
Temperature °F Over 104
Total nonfilterable residue (TSS) mg/l Under 50
Over 250
Under 25
  (Code 1993, § 21-72; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 11.2)
Sec. 26-83. - Methods of measuring volume or quantity of waste.
The volume or quantity of industrial waste discharged by a user into the sewer system shall be measured by one or more of the following methods:
(1)
If the volume of water used by any user is substantially the same as the volume secured from the municipal waterworks system, then the volume of water purchased shall be considered to be the volume of waste discharged.
(2)
If a substantial portion of the water secured by a user from the municipal waterworks system is not returned to the sewer system, the quantity of wastewater shall be determined as follows:
a.
By a meter (or meters) on the water supply line (or lines) to the user's industrial and/or process operations not discharging to the sewer system;
b.
By a meter (or meters) on the user's waste line (or lines) which discharges into the sewer system; or
c.
If meters as required under subsection (2)a or b of this section shall not have been installed, or if at any time such installed meter (or meters) stop accurately recording flows discharged into the sewage system, the user shall immediately install or repair such meter (or meters). For the first 90 days from the enactment of the ordinance from which this section is derived, that such meter (or meters) are not installed or if installed, not accurately recording flows, the sewer charge will be based on the average percentage of flows calculated upon the previous three months flows. If after 90 days, the meter (or meters) are not installed or if installed are not operational, the sewer charge will be based on 100 percent of the volume of water purchased. If a sewer meter shows incorrect or suspected incorrect flows over four times in one 12-month period, then for the next 12-month period the sewer charge will be based on 100 percent of the volume of water purchased and will continue beyond such 12-month period until such time as it can be demonstrated to the city in a manner satisfactory to the city that the sewer meter is accurately measuring the sewerage flows.
(3)
If any user, now discharging or proposing to discharge industrial waste into the sewer system, does not secure such user's entire water supply requirements from the municipal waterworks system, such user shall install and maintain a meter (or meters) on such user's waste line (or waste lines) which discharges into the sewer system or shall install such additional meters on the private water supply as required to permit determination of the total quantity discharged to the sewer system from both sources under procedures comparable to subsection (1) or (2) of this section.
(Ord. No. 97-02, § 21-73)
Sec. 26-84. - Identification of water sources required.
All sources of water supply and all discharges of wastewater into the sewer system must be identified in accordance with the provisions of section 26-83. Any omission shall be considered as an unauthorized use of the sewer system.
(Ord. No. 97-02, § 21-74)
Secs. 26-85—26-111. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL

Sec. 26-112. - When required.
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of section 26-81, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of the state department of human resources.
(Code 1993, § 21-86; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.1; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.1)
Sec. 26-113. - Discontinuance; connection to public sewer.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 30 days after notice. Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall then be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material.
(Code 1993, § 21-87; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.6; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.2)
Sec. 26-114. - Maintenance.
The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Code 1993, § 21-88; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.7; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.3)
Sec. 26-115. - Subsurface facilities restricted.
No subsurface disposal facilities shall be installed in any place where the health officer deems the use of such facilities to be a menace to human health or well-being.
(Code 1993, § 21-89; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.8; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.4)
Sec. 26-116. - Flush toilets required.
Every flush toilet shall be connected to a public sewer where available or to a septic tank. Flush toilets shall be provided at all times with sufficient running water under pressure to flush the toilet clean after each use.
(Code 1993, § 21-90; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.9; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.5)
Sec. 26-117. - Privies prohibited.
No pit privy shall be allowed within the city.
(Code 1993, § 21-91; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.10; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.6)
Sec. 26-118. - Discharge of septic tanks in sewer systems.
(a)
Restricted. It shall be unlawful to empty, dump, throw or otherwise discharge, into any manhole, catchbasin or other opening into the city sewer system, or any system connected with and discharging into the sewer system, the contents of any septic tank, sludge, sewage, or other similar matter or material, except as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
Permits. The superintendent is hereby authorized to grant permits to discharge the contents of septic tanks at locations specified by the city. Such permits may be revoked at any time if, in the opinion of the superintendent, continued dumping of such matter into the sewers will be injurious to the sewer system or treatment process.
(c)
Charges. A charge shall be made for the privilege of dumping the contents of septic tanks, as provided in separate rules. A record shall be kept of such dumpings and statements rendered at the first of each month. The amount of such statements shall be payable within ten days after rendition. Failure to pay the accounts due within such ten-day period shall be cause for revoking the permit.
(d)
Direct connection to sewers. Upon application to and recommendation of the superintendent, the clarified effluent of a septic tank may be directly connected to the public sewer. Ownership, care, and maintenance shall continue to be the responsibility of the customer. No charge for dumping, as outlined in subsection (c) of this section, shall be made provided the proper permit is completed for each instance in which dumping becomes necessary. The customer will be responsible for normal sewer service charges as outlined in section 26-82.
(Code 1993, § 21-92; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.11; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.7)
Sec. 26-119. - Alternative and experimental on-site sewage management systems.
(a)
General information. The city recognizes that on-site sewage management systems employing solids retention and on-site soil absorption of sewage effluent, if designed properly and installed in suitable soil, are usually ecologically safe and do adequately protect the public health.
(1)
The city further recognizes that substantial portions of our jurisdiction's undeveloped land area are marginally suitable or totally unsuitable for conventional septic tank systems, and that continued installation of such systems will have a detrimental effect on the public health. Where appropriate, and after thorough assessment of alternatives, the city will consider alternative on-site sewage management systems and/or modifications for areas with soils which may have marginal suitability in their present condition, including community-managed on-site sewage management systems and combinations of public or community sewage treatment systems and on-site sewage management systems.
(2)
When considering proposals for alternative on-site sewage management systems, priority shall be given to those situations where the alternative system will resolve an existing sewage management problem. Any person or community desiring to install an alternative on-site sewage management system shall submit the following to the city:
a.
Plans and specifications, along with any engineering, laboratory or field data required.
b.
Information as required on the application for an individual on-site sewage management system construction permit, and any additional information as may be required by the city. If the proposal for the system is approved, the person making application will be informed by the city of any requirements for maintenance, and any monitoring procedures deemed necessary by the city. Reduction of water usage by the installation of water conserving fixtures and devices should be considered in overall strategy.
(b)
Experimental on-site sewage management systems. The city may consider proposals for the use of experimental on-site sewage management systems. Acceptance or denial of such proposals shall depend on many site and system specific-factors, including a primary consideration that the remainder of the site is suitable for a conventional septic tank system in the event of failure of the experimental system.
(Code 1993, § 21-93; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.12; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.8)
Sec. 26-120. - Correction of nonfunctioning facility.
Any premises that has a septic tank, privy or any other sewage, industrial waste or liquid waste disposal system located thereon that does not function in a sanitary manner shall be corrected within 30 days from the receipt of written notification from the city that such system is not functioning in a sanitary manner, and order that such system be corrected.
(Code 1993, § 21-94; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.12; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.9)
Sec. 26-121. - Connection to public system prohibited.
Premises with private water systems shall not be connected with the public sewerage system.
(Code 1993, § 21-95; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.13; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.10)
Sec. 26-122. - Additional requirements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the city.
(Code 1993, § 21-96; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 4.14; Ord. of 4-2-1991, § 4.11)
Secs. 26-123—26-142. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 26-143. - Permit required.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(Code 1993, § 21-111; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.1)
Sec. 26-144. - Permit application.
The owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city. A permit and inspection fee as specified elsewhere shall be paid at the time the application is filed.
(Code 1993, § 21-112; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.2)
Sec. 26-145. - Liability for costs; indemnification of city.
All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the sewer.
(Code 1993, § 21-113; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.3)
Sec. 26-146. - Single connection required.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
(Code 1993, § 21-114; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.4)
Sec. 26-147. - Use of old materials.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all requirements of this article.
(Code 1993, § 21-115; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.5)
Sec. 26-148. - Specifications for construction.
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in construction shall all conform to the requirements of the applicable rules and regulations of the state, Carroll County and the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and Water Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Code 1993, § 21-116; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.6; Ord. of 4-2-1991)
Sec. 26-149. - Point of connection.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Code 1993, § 21-117; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.7)
Sec. 26-150. - Surface runoff restricted.
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
(Code 1993, § 21-118; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.8)
Sec. 26-151. - Inspections.
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the superintendent or his representative.
(Code 1993, § 21-119; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.9)
Sec. 26-152. - Excavations.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Code 1993, § 21-120; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.10)
Sec. 26-153. - Determination of availability, costs.
The city will define the availability of sewers and any costs associated with sewer permits or construction.
(Code 1993, § 21-121; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.11)
Sec. 26-154. - Specifications for connections.
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the applicable rules and regulations of the state, Carroll County and the city or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the superintendent before installation.
(Code 1993, § 21-122; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.12; Ord. of 4-2-1991)
Sec. 26-155. - Infiltration, inflow from building drain, sewer.
If any building drain and/or building sewer permits the entrance of infiltration or inflow, the city may:
(1)
Require the owner to repair the building drain and/or building sewer.
(2)
Charge the owner a sewer rate that reflects the costs of the additional expense of sewage treatment from the owner's property.
(3)
Require the owner to disconnect his sewer from the city sewer system.
(Code 1993, § 21-123; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 5.13; Ord. of 4-2-1991)
Secs. 26-156—26-178. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - USE RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 26-179. - Prohibited discharges—Unpolluted waters.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Code 1993, § 21-141; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.1)
Sec. 26-180. - Same—Sanitary wastewaters.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any sanitary wastewater into a storm sewer system.
(Code 1993, § 21-142; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.2)
Sec. 26-181. - Same—Specific wastes.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
(1)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
(2)
Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
(3)
Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or greater than 9.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works.
(4)
Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Code 1993, § 21-143; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.3)
Sec. 26-182. - Limited discharges.
The following described substances, materials, waters, or waste shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or equipment; will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the city are as follows:
(1)
Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius) or wastewater which will elevate the temperature of the influent to the publicly owned treatment works (POTW) to 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius) or higher.
(2)
Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin.
(3)
Wastewater containing more than 100 milligrams per liter of oils, fat, grease or wax, whether emulsified or not, or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees Fahrenheit (zero degrees Celsius) and 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius).
(4)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by caterers.
(5)
All industrial discharges to the city sewer system must comply with the federal industrial pretreatment standards (40 CFR 403) and those industrial pretreatment standards developed by the state environmental protection division.
(6)
Any waters or wastes containing taste- or odor-producing substances exceeding limits which may be established by the city.
(7)
Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentrations as may exceed limits established in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
(8)
Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a slug.
(9)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(10)
Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(11)
Materials which exert or cause:
a.
Any unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
b.
Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
c.
Unusual biochemical oxygen demand (above 250 milligrams per liter), unusual chemical oxygen demand (above 600 milligrams per liter), unusual total suspended solids (above 250 milligrams per liter), unusual ammonia nitrogen (above 30 milligrams per liter), or chlorine demand in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment plant.
(Code 1993, § 21-144; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.4)
Sec. 26-183. - Control of hazardous wastes.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated above and which in the judgment of the city, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
(1)
Reject the wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
(4)
Require surcharge payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the wastes.
(Code 1993, § 21-145; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.5)
Sec. 26-184. - Interceptors.
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintenance of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the city. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(Code 1993, § 21-146; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.6)
Sec. 26-185. - Control structure.
When required by the city the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such structure, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with approved plans. As a minimum, the structure shall be weathertight, and include a permanent access ladder, explosion proof lighting and ventilation blowers, two 20-ampere ground fault interrupter circuit 110-volt outlets, and any other suitable appurtenances as required. The structure shall include a measuring flume or weir, whichever is most appropriate for waste flow and content characteristics. The metering device shall have a permanent built-in bubble tube for flow measurement. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. This requirement will be on a case-by-case basis.
(Code 1993, § 21-147; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.7)
Sec. 26-186. - Required information regarding discharges.
The industrial users may be required to provide information needed to determine compliance with this article. These requirements may include:
(1)
Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time period.
(2)
Chemical analyses of wastewaters.
(3)
Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting wastewater volume and quality.
(4)
Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent, or other materials important to sewer use control.
(5)
A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and pretreatment facility location.
(6)
Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
(7)
Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials through spills to the public sewer.
(Code 1993, § 21-148; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.8)
Sec. 26-187. - Special agreements, arrangements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment.
(Code 1993, § 21-149; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.9)
Sec. 26-188. - Standards for measurements, tests, analyses.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association, or in accordance with any other method accepted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Sampling methods, location times, durations, and frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis, subject to approval by the city.
(Code 1993, § 21-150; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.10)
Sec. 26-189. - Pretreatment of wastes.
Persons discharging industrial wastes into the sewerage system may be required to pretreat such wastes. Plans for all pretreatment facilities shall be approved by the superintendent and, when required, the state environmental protection division prior to construction. At the time written plans are submitted for approval, written maintenance plans shall also be submitted and approved by the city. The facilities shall be allowed to operate only as long as they are maintained in accordance with the approved maintenance plans. Pretreatment requirements shall be determined on a case-by-case basis and shall include the following facilities as a minimum:
(1)
Neutralization. If plans are submitted for the neutralization of strong acid or alkaline wastes, the plans shall include the necessary instrumentation and controls to ensure compliance with the above regulations at all times.
(2)
Equalization. Holding tanks or equalization basins shall be required ahead of the receiving manhole of the city sewerage system when deemed necessary by the city to prevent peak flows that exceed the capacity of the system or that result in operational problems.
(3)
Maintenance. All pretreatment facilities shall be operated and maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(Code 1993, § 21-151; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.11)
Sec. 26-190. - Waiver of requirements.
(a)
There shall be no provision for the granting of variances for discharge of incompatible wastes. If a user begins to violate any of the provisions of this division, it shall be his responsibility to apply to the superintendent who can issue a temporary permit along with a compliance schedule for planning and construction of necessary treatment or pretreatment works. Each case will be carefully evaluated with respect to its effect on the wastewater treatment system and the environment prior to issuance of a temporary permit and compliance schedule.
(b)
Any dilution of the wastewater by the user for the purpose of decreasing the concentrations of toxic materials shall be considered as a violation of this article.
(Code 1993, § 21-152; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.12)
Sec. 26-191. - Discontinuance of service for failure to comply.
Failure to comply with the provisions of this division shall be cause for the discontinuance of sewer or water service to the offending person. The procedure shall be as follows: A written notice, signed by the superintendent, shall be delivered personally to the person then responsible for the offending use, outlining the conditions of the wastes which violate the city ordinances. In the event that the person in charge will not accept the notice, it shall be conveyed by registered mail to the responsible person. The person notified shall have 24 hours from the time of receipt of the notice, either personally delivered or received by registered mail, to correct the offending conditions. If correction is not made or a request for extension is not received by the city within 24 hours, it shall be mandatory that water or sewer service shall be discontinued to the offending person without further notice. If a request for an extension of time is received by the city within 24 hours of the notice provided for in this section and if circumstances are such that, in the opinion of the superintendent, the best interest of the city would be served by extending the time for correction of the offending condition, then he may grant an extension of time up to a maximum limit of 30 days.
(Code 1993, § 21-153; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.13)
Sec. 26-192. - Responsibilities of the person discharging waste.
It shall be the responsibility of the person discharging industrial waste into the city sewerage system to:
(1)
Build a control structure in the discharge line from his premises, immediately prior to the entrance of the discharge line into the city sewerage system, suitable for the sampling and measuring of wastes. Plans for this structure must be approved by the city. This requirement may be waived if deemed unnecessary by the city. In the event that no special manhole is required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
(2)
Contact the superintendent prior to operation changes which will materially alter the characteristics of the waste from the last prior sampling.
(3)
Make timely, periodic payments to the city of surcharges for excessive loadings as detailed in the city user charge system.
(Code 1993, § 21-154; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.14)
Sec. 26-193. - Unpolluted waters.
In the event that a customer is found to be diluting or equalizing wastewater with unpolluted waters, the city shall have the right, in the first such instance of violation, to double all service charges and surcharges for the month in which such violation is found to have occurred. In the event of subsequent instances of such violations, the city shall have the right to discontinue service in accordance with the procedure as set forth in section 26-192.
(Code 1993, § 21-155; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.15)
Sec. 26-194. - Accidental discharge.
All industrial customers shall provide facilities and institute procedures as are reasonably necessary to prevent or minimize the potential for accidental discharge to the sewage treatment plant from liquid or raw material storage areas, from truck and rail car loading and unloading areas, in-plant transfer or processing and material handling areas, and diked areas or holding ponds.
(1)
In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to notify immediately by telephone the superintendent. The notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration, volume, and corrective actions taken. Customers are specifically required to post and maintain on a bulletin board a notice advising employees the telephone number and person to be called in the event of an accidental discharge.
(2)
Within five days following an accidental discharge, the customer shall submit to the superintendent a detailed written report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the customer of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the sewerage works, the waters of the state, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this article or other applicable law.
(Code 1993, § 21-156; Ord. of 3-7-1989, § 6.16)
