ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Unless a contrary intention is clearly apparent from the context, any term used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as when used in a comparable provision of the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, malt beverages, distilled spirits, wine and fortified wines defined in this section.
Brewery means a manufacturer or producer of malt beverages for wholesale off the premises but does not include a brewpub as that term is defined in this section. Typical brewing production is greater than 15,000 barrels per year.
Brewpub means a restaurant in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36 for retail consumption on the premises and solely in draft form. Brewpubs shall be licensed as restaurants as set forth in this chapter.
Brown bag establishment means any restaurant, supper club or other establishment providing food or entertainment in the normal course of business, and in which the owners or their agents knowingly allow patrons to bring in and consume the patrons' alcoholic beverages.
Chief of police means the chief of police of the city.
Church means any permanent place of public religious worship.
Craft beer means beer produced by a brewer with an annual production of 6,000,000 barrels or less, and no more than 25 percent of the brewery is owned or controlled by an alcoholic beverage industry member who is not a craft beer brewer.
Designated manager is the primary employee responsible for managing the premises which possesses a license under this chapter.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Hotel means any building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and transient guests, in which 50 or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of guests, and where the sleeping accommodations are in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith that are on the same premises and are a part of the hotel operation. Guest rooms must have interior accessibility only, with no exterior doorways and no exterior room entry. Motels meeting the qualifications set out herein for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels. Extended stays shall not be considered hotels for the purposes of this chapter.
Interest includes any pecuniary interest and any ownership interest, whether present or future, whole or partial, legal or beneficial, contingent or vested, direct or indirect, and any right, power, or authority of control.
Licensed premises include not only the room wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or served but also the outdoor area within the property lines as approved by the mayor and council for sales and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Licensee includes an individual licensee and in the case of a partnership or corporation includes both the partnership and corporation and the named licensee.
Lounge or banquet room means a separate room or area enclosed within a hotel with all booths, stools and tables being open and unobstructed to the view of any other customers in the lounge or the manager thereof.
Majority stockholder means the person, if any, who owns more than 50 percent of the voting stock of a corporation; if no person owns more than 50 percent of the voting stock of a corporation, the majority stockholder is the person owning more of the voting stock than any other person; and if two or more persons each own the same amount of the voting stock of a corporation and each own more of the voting stock than any other person, then any one of such persons may act as the majority stockholder.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Microbrewery means a manufacturer or producer of malt beverages for wholesale off the premises limited to no more than 15,000 barrels per year.
Mixed drink means any distilled spirits served for consumption on the premises, whether or not diluted by water or any other substance.
Named licensee means the person acting as such for a partnership or corporation pursuant to section 4-26.
Nanobrewery means a manufacturer or producer of malt beverages for wholesale off the premises limited to no more than 2,000 barrels per year.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained herein.
Wine and craft beer boutique means an establishment selling Georgia wine products and other fine wines and craft beer under a limited pouring license by the taste, drink, original package or growler for the purposes of promoting tourism in certain designated areas of the city.
Unless a contrary intention is clearly apparent from the context, any term used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as when used in a comparable provision of the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 0-07-2020 , 8-11-2020; Ord. No. 0-33-2022 , 4-12-2022)
Sec. 4-2. - Penalty.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall upon conviction be punished as provided in section 1-8. Any such punishment, if imposed, shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any license suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 0-07-2020 , 8-11-2020; Ord. No. 0-33-2022 , 4-12-2022)
Sec. 4-3. - Confidentiality of information.
For the purpose of protecting the individual business interests or the person making returns as provided for in sections 4-104 and 4-206, the city licensing authorities shall treat such returns as being of a strictly confidential nature and will not divulge such information unless called for by a court order and/or for city, county, state or federal tax purposes. Any clerks and/or city personnel found guilty of violating such confidence shall be subject to disciplinary action at the discretion of the city manager.
(Ord. No. 0-07-2020 , 8-11-2020; Ord. No. 0-33-2022 , 4-12-2022)
Secs. 4-4—4-24. - Reserved.
