ARTICLE II. - COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Coin-operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70 et seq.; exchange of free replay for anything of value unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(c).

Sec. 8-54. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70 ("Coin Operated Amusement Machines- Definitions"), shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this article. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this article, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70.
Proprietor means any person who, as the owner, lessee, or proprietor has under his control any establishment, place or premises in or at which such machine is placed or kept for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
(Code 1993, § 6-46; Ord. of 10-5-1982, § 1)
Sec. 8-55. - License required.
No person shall engage in the business of an operator or proprietor of coin-operated amusement machine without first having obtained the proper license therefor.
(Code 1993, § 6-47; Ord. of 10-5-1982, § 2)
Sec. 8-56. - Operator's license fee; proration.
The license fee for each operator shall be in the amount set by the city business license ordinance as determined by the gross receipts of the operator for the previous calendar year. If experience exists for only part of a year the license amount shall be determined by extrapolation thereof for a full calendar year. If there is no experience whatsoever the license amount shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. All operator's license fees shall be payable annually in advance, provided that where application is made after July 1 of any license year a license may be issued for the remainder thereof upon payment of one-half of the annual fee. In no case shall any portion of such license fee be refunded to the licensee.
(Code 1993, § 6-48; Ord. of 10-5-1982, § 3)
Sec. 8-57. - Proprietor's license fee.
The license fee for each proprietor shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges per year for each machine used or played, or exhibited for use or play. Machines may be substituted or swapped one for another without payment of an additional fee for the machine substituted provided the number of machines is not increased. All proprietor's license fees shall be payable annually in advance, provided that, where application is made after the expiration of any portion of any license year, a license may be issued for the remainder thereof upon payment of one-half of the annual fee. In no case shall any portion of such license fee be repaid to the licensee.
(Code 1993, § 6-49; Ord. of 10-5-1982, § 4)
Sec. 8-58. - Application for license; nontransferable.
(a)
Application for license under this article shall be filed in writing with the city clerk, on a form to be provided by the city, and shall specify:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant, and if a firm, corporation, partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses.
(2)
The address of the premises where the licensed machine or machines are to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on at such place.
(3)
The trade name and general description of the machine or machines to be licensed and if the applicant is a proprietor, the number of machines to be licensed.
(4)
The name and address of the operator of the machine, if other than the proprietor.
(b)
The proper license fee shall accompany such application for license hereunder and shall be first referred by the city clerk to the city manager who shall make or cause to be made such investigation as they may deem necessary. No license shall be issued to anyone found to have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude. If the application is approved by the city manager, the license shall be issued by the clerk. If the license is denied the fee shall be returned to the applicant. All licenses under this article shall expire on December 31 following their issuance. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the establishment of the licensee. The license shall be nonassignable and nontransferable, and in the case of a proprietor shall apply only to the premises for which such license is issued.
(Code 1993, § 6-50; Ord. of 10-5-1982, § 5)
Sec. 8-59. - Increasing number of machines.
In case a proprietor licensed under the provisions of this article desires, after the expiration of any portion of any license year, to increase the number of machines to be used or played, or exhibited for use or play in his establishment, he shall surrender his license to the city clerk who shall issue a new license showing the number of machines licensed thereunder, upon payment of the proper license fee therefore, and such new license fee shall be prorated based on previous fees paid and the amount of time remaining in the calendar year.
(Code 1993, § 6-51; Ord. of 10-5-1982, § 6)
Sec. 8-60. - Evidence of ownership.
Any proprietor who owns a machine coming under this article at the time of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall file with the city clerk evidence of such ownership prior to the issuance of a license; and any proprietor purchasing a machine after the aforementioned date shall file with the city clerk evidence of ownership thereof before exhibiting or placing such machine for use or play.
(Code 1993, § 6-52; Ord. of 10-5-1982, § 7)
Sec. 8-61. - Regulation of machines, premises.
(a)
No coin-operated amusement machine shall be operated so as to constitute a public nuisance.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to maintain order on the licensed premises at all times.
(c)
It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to see that the licensed premises do not become overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard to the health or safety of persons therein.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person engaged solely in the business of operating an amusement center or game room to sell, offer for sale or knowingly permit to be sold or offered for sale or to be dispensed or consumed or brought on the licensed premises any alcoholic beverages.
(e)
Every premises licensed under this article shall have affixed on its property in plain view evidence of the issuance of its license.
(f)
The license required and described in this article shall be purely a personal privilege and shall not constitute property. It is not transferable in any manner.
(g)
Any violation of the Criminal Code of Georgia (O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.), or of any ordinance pertaining to obscene materials as defined and regulated in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80 et seq., shall be grounds for the immediate revocation of a license.
(h)
It shall be illegal for any license holder to offer a reward, prize or award in the form of money or otherwise in connection with the use or operation of coin-operated amusement equipment except as to replays allowable under state law.
(i)
Violation of any of the terms or provisions of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided by the terms and provisions of the city Charter.
(Code 1993, § 6-53; Ord. of 10-5-1982, § 8)
Sec. 8-62. - Hours of operation.
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to allow the operation of any game or machine licensed under this article between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 8:00 a.m. Monday through Friday or between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. Saturday or between 2:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sunday.
(Code 1993, § 6-54; Ord. of 10-5-1982, § 9)
Sec. 8-63. - Revocation of licenses.
The mayor and council shall have the right to revoke any license issued under this article for the violation of any of the provisions of this article, after written notice to the licensee, which notice shall specify the violation charged, and provide an opportunity for a hearing within ten days. At such hearing the licensee may present evidence and witnesses in his defense.
(Code 1993, § 6-55; Ord. of 10-5-1982, § 10)
Secs. 8-64—8-84. - Reserved.
