Subpart B - CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS OF LOCAL APPLICATION
ARTICLE I. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[1]
Section 1 Article VII, section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"Any other provisions of this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, the governing authority of the City of Villa Rica is hereby authorized to grant an exemption from all city ad valorem taxes in an amount to be fixed by the governing authority at not more than $2,000.00 on a homestead owned and occupied by a resident of the city as a residence and homestead, and only so long as actually occupied by the owner primarily as such. The value of the residence in excess of the amount so exempted shall remain subject to taxation. Any such resident shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he or his agent provides the governing authority of the city, or a person designated by the governing authority, with an affidavit stating that he is a resident and that such property is his homestead and residence and containing such additional information as will enable the governing authority to make a determination as to whether such person is entitled to such exemption. The governing authority shall provide the necessary forms for such purpose. After any such person has filed the proper affidavit and has been allowed the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file said affidavit thereafter for any subsequent year, and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of such person to notify the governing authority in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph. The homestead exemption provided for herein shall not be granted nor the amount fixed within the limits prescribed herein for any year until the governing authority of the city provides by ordinance for the granting of such exemption and the amount thereof. The governing authority of the city may provide by ordinance for the proper administration of this exemption."
Editor's note— This amendment was carried forward into the 1983 Constitution by Ga. Const (1983) art. XI, § 1, ¶ IV and 1987 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 71), page 3639.
Section 2 The above proposed amendment to the Constitution shall be published and submitted as provided in Article XII, section I, Paragraph I of the Constitution of Georgia of 1976.
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this subpart is 1977 Ga. Laws (Res. No. 71), page 1600, amending Ga. Const. (1877) art. VII, § 1, ¶ IV. This amendment was carried forward into the 1983 Constitution. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
