ARTICLE I. - CREATION, INCORPORATION, POWERS

Sec. 1.11. - Incorporation.
The City of Villa Rica, Georgia, in the Counties of Carroll and Douglas, and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the same name and style of the City of Villa Rica, Georgia. Under that name, said city shall continue to be invested with all the property which now belongs to the corporation; shall have perpetual succession; may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold such property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at will; and may exercise in conformity with this charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Sec. 1.12. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of the City of Villa Rica shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The current boundaries of the City of Villa Rica, at all times, shall be shown on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city manager and to be designated, as the case may be: "Map (or Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Villa Rica, Georgia." Alterations in these boundaries shall be indicated by appropriate entries upon or additions to such map or description. Such entries or additions shall be made by and under the direction of the mayor. Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city manager shall be admitted in evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Sec. 1.125. - Corporate boundaries; limits.
The corporate limits of the City of Villa Rica shall be those existing as of December 31, 2016 as shown on the maps of the City.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Sec. 1.126. - Corporate boundaries; change.
The corporate limits of the City of Villa Rica shall also include the following described area:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 195 and Land Lot 196 of the 6th District of Carroll County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of the southwesterly right-of-way of Georgia State Highway 101, a/k/a Rockmart Road, and the northwesterly right-of-way of Georgia Highway 61 Connector, a/k/a Industrial Boulevard, and from said POINT OF BEGINNING, running in a southwesterly direction along the northwesterly right-of-way of said Georgia Highway 61 Connector a distance of 1100 feet, more or less, but specifically to the property of the City of Villa Rica known as Gold Dust Park; thence running in a northerly direction along the easterly line of property of the City of Villa Rica a distance of 270 feet, more or less, but specifically to the northeast corner of said City of Villa Rica property; thence running in a westerly direction along the northerly line of said City of Villa Rica property 1,470 feet, more or less, but specifically to the northwest corner of said City of Villa Rica property; thence running in a southerly direction along the westerly line of said City of Villa Rica property 1,150 feet, more or less, but specifically to the south land lot line of Land Lot 195; thence running in a westerly direction along the south land lot line of Land Lot 195 and Land Lot 916, 2,280 feet, more or less, but specifically to the southeast corner of Iron Creek Mobile Home Park; thence running in a northerly direction along the easterly line of said Mobile Home Park 1,430 feet, more or less, but specifically to the south line of property now or formerly owned by Daniel Bearden and Marilee Bearden; thence running in an easterly direction 4,650 feet, more or less, but specifically to the southwesterly right-of-way of Georgia State Highway 101; thence running in a southeasterly direction along said southwesterly right-of-way 40 feet, more or less, but specifically to the point of beginning.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Sec. 1.13. - Specific powers.
The corporate powers of the government of the City of Villa Rica, to be exercised by the governing authority, may include the following:
(1)
To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(2)
To levy and provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions, and to license and regulate such privileges, occupations, trades, and professions and to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes;
(3)
To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city, to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(4)
To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city, and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(5)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple, or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(6)
To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(7)
To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, under [O.C.G.A. title 22] or under oath applicable Public Acts as are or may be enacted;
(8)
To acquire, lease, construct, operated [operate], maintain, sell and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced;
(9)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public services; to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the public service commission;
(10)
To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light roads, alleys and walkways within the corporate limits of the city;
(11)
To grant franchise and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts, for the use of public utilities;
(12)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals and charitable, cultural, educational, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under [O.C.G.A. title 22], or other applicable Public Acts, as are or may be enacted;
(13)
To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so;
(14)
To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas and heating and air conditioning codes and to regulate all housing, building and building trades; to license all building trades and to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures;
(15)
To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness and public disturbances;
(16)
To regulate or prohibit junk dealers; pawnshops; the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors; and to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property;
(17)
To regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions, shows of any kind whatever, by taxation or otherwise;
(18)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(19)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(20)
To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city;
(21)
To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof;
(22)
To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(23)
To provide for the collection, method of collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items;
(24)
To levy, fix, assess and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax or fee, for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, fees and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(25)
To levy a fee, charge or sewer assessment as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining and extending of a sewerage disposal plant and sewerage system and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewerage system a sewer service assessment or sewer fee for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same;
(26)
To charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees and to charge the same from time to time; such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewerage system;
(27)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(28)
To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(29)
To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and administration and use of same by the public and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(30)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing and housing, for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(31)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court shall work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and squares in the city; or to provide for the commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(32)
To adopt ordinances and regulations for the prevention of disorderly conduct and disturbing the peace in the corporate limits of the city and to prohibit the playing of lotteries therein, and to prohibit or regulate by ordinance such other conduct and activities within said city, which while not constituting an offense against the laws of this state, are deemed by the governing authority to be detrimental and offensive to the peace and good order of the city or to the welfare of the citizens thereto;
(33)
To regulate and license, or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance enacted hereunder;
(34)
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys and walkways of the city;
(35)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance of such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles;
(36)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the city;
(37)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(38)
To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations providing for services to be furnished and payments to be made therefor;
(39)
To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions and agencies of the city, and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred or delegated to same;
(40)
To make, ordain and establish such bylaws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the city;
(41)
To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(42)
To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen;
(43)
To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(44)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Sec. 1.14. - General powers.
In addition to all other powers herein granted, the city shall be vested with any and all powers which municipal corporations are or may hereafter be authorized or required to exercise under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, as fully and completely as though such powers were specifically enumerated herein; and any and all powers which the city was heretofore authorized to exercise upon the effective date of this charter.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Sec. 1.15. - Construction.
The powers of the city shall be construed liberally and in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the city as stated in this charter. It is the intention hereof to grant the city full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the city and all of its affairs.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Sec. 1.16. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision such powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance of the governing authority and as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
Sec. 1.17. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter, are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the governing authority.
(Res. of 02-06-2018 , Exh. A)
