ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODES

Sec. 10-23. - City construction code; amendments.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for by subsequent ordinance or another provision of this Code, the city construction code shall be comprised of the following documents, including the administration and appendix chapters also contained in those documents, which are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this Code, as though they were copied fully in this article. It is the intention of the city to enforce the latest edition of the state minimum standard codes listed below, as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs.
(1)
International Building Code.
(2)
International Residential Code.
(3)
International Fire Code.
(4)
International Plumbing Code.
(5)
International Mechanical Code.
(6)
International Fuel Gas Code.
(7)
National Electrical Code.
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code.
(9)
International Property Maintenance Code.
(10)
International Existing Building Code.
(11)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code.
(b)
If any of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are adopted as a state minimum code pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq., then the edition adopted by the state shall control. If any of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are less stringent than the state minimum codes promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq., then the state minimum code shall control.
(c)
A copy of each of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section, as adopted by the state, is filed in the clerk's office and available for review by the public. The same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and, from the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the city.
(d)
Any matters in the codes incorporated by reference in this article which are less restrictive than the laws of the state, those portions so in conflict are hereby repealed in that respect only; it being the intent not to affect state law.
(e)
Any matters in the codes incorporated by reference in this article which are contrary to existing ordinances of the county, to that extent any existing ordinances to the contrary are hereby repealed in that respect only; except the 1988 development regulations, as amended, shall prevail.
(f)
The county construction code and the county fire prevention and protection code shall be administered and enforced by the department of planning and development and the bureau of fire services as defined in the codes administration procedure titled, Areas of Responsibility Defined.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 14-26; Ord. No. 2021-06-205, § 1, 7-27-2021)
Sec. 10-24. - References to officials in adopted technical codes.
Where reference is made to the duties of certain officials named within the technical codes which are adopted by reference in this article, then that official of the city as designated by the city manager who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in said technical code, shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of that technical code are concerned.
Secs. 10-25—10-51. - Reserved.
