ARTICLE IV. - STREAM BUFFER MITIGATION BANK

Sec. 18-90. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank Ordinance of Peachtree Corners."
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-171)
Sec. 18-91. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Applicant means a property owner, public agency or private entity seeking participation in the Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank by meeting the specifications of this article and the criteria and procedures in the Peachtree Corners Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank procedures guide, a chapter of the Gwinnett County Storm Water Design Manual.
Buffer means the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of a stream in its existing or enhanced state of vegetation as defined by the stream buffer protection article.
Conservation easement means a legal agreement or dedication in favor or a government agency or qualified land conservation organization, recorded in the county real property records by the property owner to place restrictions on present and future use of land.
Creation means the development of a forested buffer in an area were a buffer did not previously exist. Successful creation results in a net gain in buffer acres.
Department means the department of water resources of the county.
Director means the director of the department of water resources or the director's designee.
Enhancement means activities conducted within existing forested buffer that heighten, intensify, or improve its function to protect the aquatic resource. Enhancement may include management and control of exotic species, such as privet or improving diversity thorough replanting. Enhancement results in improved function, but does not result in a gain in buffer area.
Floodplain means those lands subject to flooding, which would have at least a one percent probability of flooding occurrence in any calendar year based on the basin being fully developed as shown on the current land use plan; i.e., the regulatory flood.
Impervious cover or impervious surface means any paved, hardened or structural surface, including, but not limited to, buildings, dams, decks, driveways, parking areas, patios, streets, swimming pools, tennis courts, walkways, and other structures.
Land development means:
(1)
Verb: All activities associated with the conversion of land or the expansion or replacement of an existing use to any new use intended for human operation, occupancy or habitation, other than for agricultural purposes devoted strictly to the cultivation of the land, dairying or animal husbandry. Such activities include land disturbance (clearing and grubbing the land of vegetation and stumps, and grading) and the construction of improvements, such as, but not limited to, streets, driveways or parking areas, water or sewer mains, stormwater drainage facilities, sidewalks or other structures permanently placed on or in the property.
(2)
Noun: Where appropriate to the context, the term "development" also may be used to denote a specific subdivision or project which is a single entity or intended to be constructed as in interrelated whole, whether simultaneously or in phases.
Land development activity means those actions or activities that comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land disturbance means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, clearing and grubbing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices.
Land disturbance activity means those actions or activities that comprise, facilitate or result in land disturbance.
Lot or parcel means a designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed, or built upon.
Mitigation means the use of any or all of the following actions listed in descending order of preference:
(1)
Avoiding the impact by not taking a certain action;
(2)
Minimizing the impact by limiting the degree or magnitude of the action by using appropriate technology or by taking affirmative steps to avoid or reduce the impact;
(3)
Rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating or restoring the affected stream buffer;
(4)
Reducing or eliminating the impact over time by preservation or maintenance operations during the life of the development proposal;
(5)
Compensating for the impact by replacing, enhancing or providing substitute stream buffer protection areas or other activities that restore, maintain or protect stream buffer functions within the city;
(6)
Monitoring the impact and taking appropriate corrective measures.
Mitigation bank means a property that has been protected and approved by the city expressly for the purpose of providing compensatory mitigation for authorized impacts through the restoration, creation, and/or enhancement of stream buffers or water quality, and, in exceptional circumstances, preservation of adjacent stream buffers, and/or other resources contributing toward the proper function of a stream buffer or water quality, or property that is utilized to implement other types of activities that restore, enhance, and protect stream buffer functions or water quality within the city.
Mitigation banking means the process of restoring or creating self-sustaining, functioning stream buffers or water quality, or, in exceptional circumstances, preserving high-quality and threatened buffers, or other activities that directly contribute to the restoration, enhancement, and protection of stream buffer functions or water quality as a prior replacement for stream buffers that are expected to be unavoidably impacted by development.
Mitigation costs means the costs as determined by the county for restoration of a riparian buffer and may include planning, design, construction, and property costs. Gwinnett County Mitigation Banking costs are provided in the procedures guide, a chapter of the Gwinnett County Storm Water Design Manual, and are adjusted as needed by the department.
Mitigation credit means a unit of value generally equivalent to one acre of created or restored functioning stream buffer.
Mitigation plan means a written document developed based on the criteria in the Gwinnett County Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank procedures guide, a chapter of the Gwinnett County Storm Water Design Manual, and supplemented with graphics (including as-built drawings), that describes in detail the implemented mitigation site, the goals established for the project, how it was implemented, how it will be monitored, the amount of mitigation in the site (credits, acres, etc.), and the criteria by which its success will be determined.
Monitoring means evaluating the impacts of development proposals on biologic, hydrologic and geologic systems and assessing the performance of required mitigation.
Off-site means outside the limits of the project area.
On-site means within the limits of the project area.
Perennial stream means a watercourse having a source, terminus, banks and channel through which water flows on a continuous basis as depicted on the most recent United States Geological Survey 7.5-minute quadrangle map (scale 1:24,000).
Permit means the permit issued by the department of planning and development required for undertaking land development activity.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the state, interstate body or any other legal entity.
Procedures guide means the Gwinnett County Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank procedures guide, a chapter of the Gwinnett County Storm Water Design Manual, which provides a standardized process for preparing a mitigation plan, coordinating with the department, obtaining the proper permits, determination of mitigation requirements, conducting a completeness review of the design, monitoring the success of the project, cost of mitigation credits, and payment procedures when utilizing the stream buffer mitigation bank.
Protection area or stream protection area means, with respect to a stream, the combined areas of all required buffers and setbacks applicable to such stream as established by the city stream buffer protection article.
Restoration means the re-establishment or rehabilitation of a buffer with the goal of returning natural or historic functions and characteristics. Restoration may include the conversion of a pasture area to a forested area and result in a gain in buffer function value for protecting aquatic resources.
Riparian means belonging or related to the bank of a river, stream, lake, pond or impoundment.
Setback means, with respect to a stream, the area established by the city stream buffer protection article as extending beyond any buffer applicable to the stream.
Stream means any stream, beginning at:
(1)
The location where the normal stream flow has wrested the vegetation. The normal stream flow is any flow that consists solely of base flow or consists of both base flow and direct runoff during any period of the year. Base flow results from the groundwater that enters the stream channel through the soil. This includes spring flows into streams. Direct runoff is the water entering stream channels promptly after rainfall or snow melts;
(2)
A point in the stream channel with a drainage area of 20 acres or more; or
(3)
Where evidence indicates the presence of a stream in a drainage area of other than 20 acres, the department of water resources may require field studies to verify the existence of a stream.
Stormwater capital project means the project created to finance and operate, in perpetuity, the Peachtree Corners Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank.
Stream bank means the confining cut of a stream channel.
Stream channel means the portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Utility means a public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and railroads or other utilities identified by the city.
Variance means an adjustment in the application of standards as defined in section 18-50(b).
Watercourse means any natural or artificial waterway, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently having a definite channel, bed and bank, and includes any area adjacent thereto which is subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Watershed means the land area that drains into a particular stream.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-172)
Sec. 18-92. - Establishment of the stream buffer mitigation bank and stormwater capital project.
There is hereby created a Peachtree Corners Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank and a stormwater capital project. The mitigation bank will be administered by the county department of water resources. The county department of financial services will administer the stormwater capital project.
(1)
Source of funds. All monies generated by the sale of credits through the in-lieu fee mitigation option described in section 18-96(2) shall be deposited into the stormwater capital project. All monies received from penalties described in section 18-55 shall be deposited into the project.
(2)
Use of funds. Funds shall be budgeted and maintained separately from all other city service funds, for the sole purpose of financing and supporting the creation and perpetual operation of a stream buffer mitigation bank to serve the city. Funds may be used to implement projects that will replace the functional loss (for both water quality and quantity) of the forested stream buffer, including, but not limited to, design and construction of stream restoration projects, property acquisition, engineering and planning studies, and design and construction of stormwater best management practices.
(3)
Real property. All purchases or transfers of real property pursuant to this article shall be brought before the county commission for approval. The director of the department of water resources may accept, with county commission approval, donations of real estate, easements and revenue for use in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-173)
Sec. 18-93. - Peachtree Corners Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank procedures guide.
A Peachtree Corners Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank procedures guide shall be developed and updated as needed by the department of water resources as a chapter of the Gwinnett County Storm Water Design Manual. The procedures guide will provide a standardized process for preparing a mitigation plan, coordinating with the department, obtaining the proper permits, determination of mitigation requirements, conducting a completeness review of the design, monitoring the success of the project, cost of mitigation credits, and payment procedures when utilizing the stream buffer mitigation bank.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-174)
Sec. 18-94. - Applicability.
This article applies to persons who wish to impact a stream buffer protection zone as defined in the city stream buffer protection article. These requirements are in addition to, and do not replace or supersede, any other applicable mitigation requirements established under state or federal law. The terms of this article apply when an applicant has either:
(1)
Received approval from the department of water resources for a proposed impact to a stream buffer protection zone that is "allowable with mitigation," as defined in the procedures guide; or
(2)
Received a variance pursuant to section 18-50(b)(4)e and is required to perform mitigation as a condition of a variance approval.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-175)
Sec. 18-95. - Compatibility with other buffer regulations and requirements.
This article is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law. The requirements of this article should be considered minimum requirements, and where any provision of this article imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-176)
Sec. 18-96. - Stream buffer mitigation requirements.
To achieve stream buffer mitigation that is proportional to the extent of the impact and consistent from project to project, all applicants requesting mitigation must follow the standardized processes as described in the Peachtree Corners Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank procedures guide, available as a chapter of the Gwinnett County Storm Water Design Manual. The applicant will use the criteria outlined in the procedures guide to determine the amount of creation, restoration, enhancement, and/or preservation required relative to the degree of impact. An applicant has two options for mitigating impacts to an existing stream buffer protection zone as defined in the city stream buffer protection article. The first option is to perform the mitigation on-site in accordance with the procedures described in subsection (1) of this section. The second option is for the applicant to pay a fee to the Peachtree Corners Stormwater Capital Project in accordance with the procedures described in section 18-50(b).
(1)
On-site mitigation. An applicant may mitigate impacts to an existing stream buffer by performing an amount of mitigation that is equivalent to the mitigation requirement on-site in accordance with the on-site mitigation procedures in the procedures guide. If the amount of on-site mitigation is not sufficient to satisfy the mitigation requirement, then the applicant will be required to purchase credits from the Peachtree Corners Stream Buffer Mitigation Bank as described in section 18-50(b).
(2)
In-lieu fee mitigation. An applicant may mitigate impacts to an existing stream buffer by paying a fee to the stormwater capital project in accordance with the fee schedule. The fee will be based on the actual costs of stream buffer restoration and will be approved by the city commission. The fee schedule will be reviewed and revised as necessary to reflect the actual costs of restoration and submitted to the city commission for review and approval.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-177)
Sec. 18-97. - Additional information requirements for mitigation of buffer zone properties.
As described of in the city stream buffer protection article and stream buffer mitigation bank procedures guide, any permit applications for property requiring buffers and setbacks hereunder must include the following:
(1)
A site plan showing:
a.
The location of all streams on the property;
b.
Limits of required stream buffers and setbacks on the property;
c.
Buffer zone topography with contour lines at no greater than two-foot contour intervals;
d.
Delineation of forested and open areas in the buffer zone; and
e.
Detailed plans of all proposed land development in the buffer and of all proposed impervious cover within the setback;
(2)
A description of all proposed land development within the buffer and setback; and
(3)
Any other documentation that the department of water resources may reasonably deem necessary for review of the application and to ensure that the buffer zone ordinance is addressed in the approval process. All buffer and setback areas must be recorded following the plan approval process.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-178)
Sec. 18-98. - Inspection of on-site mitigation projects.
(a)
Either the department of water resources or the department of planning and development may perform inspections of the on-site mitigation project and shall make a final inspection following completion of the work. The permittee shall assist representatives of either department in making such inspections. Both the director of the department of water resources and the director of the department of planning and development or the directors' designee shall have the authority to conduct such investigations as he may reasonably deem necessary to carry out the duties as prescribed in this article, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable time upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating and inspecting the sites of any land development activities within the protection area.
(b)
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent who requests entry for purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out official duties.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-179)
Sec. 18-99. - Enforcement and administrative appeal.
This article shall be administered, interpreted, and enforced by both the director of the department of water resources and the director of the department of planning and development or the director's designee. Any action or inaction that violates the provisions of this article or the requirements of an approved plan or permit shall be subject to the enforcement actions or penalties outlined in sections 18-55 and 18-56. Any such action or inaction that is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and also may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the enforcement actions or penalties described herein shall not prevent such equitable relief.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-180)
Sec. 18-100. - Fees.
(a)
Application filing, permit, inspection, in-lieu and other fees shall be as may be established from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Permit fees, if any, shall be submitted as a prerequisite to issuance of the permit. Nonpayment as a result of submission of a check having insufficient funds on account, or for any other reason, shall cause the permit to be voided and re-issuance subject to penalty as may be established by the board of commissioners.
(c)
Application fees, if any, shall be submitted with the application and upon acceptance of said submission for review and consideration shall not be refundable. Failure to pay a required application fee shall cause the application to be returned to the applicant without acceptance for review or consideration by the city.
(d)
Following the approval of development plans, and prior to authorization to begin construction, the developer shall provide the department of water resources such fees as may be established from time to time by the board of commissioners. Such fees shall not be refundable following issuance of a development permit, except upon approval of the board of commissioners.
(e)
Prior to approval of a final plat or certificate of occupancy, the developer shall provide to the department of water resources such fees and performance and/or maintenance bonds as shall be required by this article or established from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-181)
Sec. 18-101. - Adoption and amendment.
(a)
Effective date.
(1)
These regulations shall be in full force and effect on July 1, 2012, following the adoption by the board of commissioners of the county, and shall apply to any land disturbance permit for which an application is received after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(2)
Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to affect the validity of any building permit lawfully issued prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(b)
Amendments.
(1)
These regulations may be amended from time to time by resolution of the board of commissioners of the city. Such amendments shall be effective as of their date of adoption unless otherwise stated in the adopting resolution.
(2)
Any subdivision or other project for which a valid and complete application for a development permit shall have been received prior to the adoption of an amendment to these regulations may, at the developer's option, proceed to completion and building permits may be issued as though no amendment had been approved, provided that the development permit is or can be issued within 90 calendar days of said amendment and all time frames associated with said permit are observed.
(3)
Any subdivision or other project for which a development permit has been issued prior to the adoption of an amendment to these regulations may, at the developer's option, proceed to completion and building permits may be issued as though no amendment had been approved.
(4)
Any subdivision or other project for which only a clearing, clearing and grubbing, or grading permit shall have been issued prior to adoption of an amendment to these regulations shall be brought into conformance with the amendment (if applicable) prior to issuance of a development permit.
(5)
No amendment to these regulations shall be construed to affect the validity of any building permit lawfully issued prior to the adoption of said amendments.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 42-182)
Secs. 18-102—18-130. - Reserved.
