Chapter 38 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Classification of mobile homes as a separate class of property for ad valorem property tax purposes, Ga. Const. art. VII, § I, ¶ III; ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.; issuance of mobile home location permits and display of decals, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492; the Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXATION

Sec. 38-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Mobile home means a mobile home or a manufactured home, as such terms are defined in the Act known as "The Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act" (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.); provided, however, that those mobile homes which qualify the taxpayer for exemption under state law shall not be considered mobile homes and subject to the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-26)
Sec. 38-20. - Jurisdiction of article.
Every mobile home located anywhere in the city on January 1 is subject to ad valorem taxation by the taxing jurisdiction authorized to impose an ad valorem tax on the property. Taxes shall be charged against the owner of the property, if known, and against the specific property itself, if the owner is not known. A mobile home shall be returned for taxation in this city if it is the owner's domicile, unless the mobile home is primarily used in connection with some established business enterprise located in a different city or county, in which case it shall be returned for taxation in the city or county where the business is located. Mobile homes situated in the city but owned by nonresidents shall also be returned for taxation in this city.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-27)
Sec. 38-21. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any owner or occupant of a mobile home or property owner having a mobile home located on their property within the confines of the city who fails to comply with this article or any part of this article, shall be charged with each and every violation and, upon their being found guilty in a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be punished by a fine, in an amount not less than $250.00 nor more than $500.00 for every violation and/or imprisonment for a period not in excess of 60 days. Persons who violate section 38-24 or 38-26 shall be subject only to the penalties provided therein.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-28)
Sec. 38-22. - Annual permit required.
Each year, every owner of a mobile home subject to taxation in the city shall return the same for taxation and pay the taxes due thereon at the time the owner makes application for the mobile home location permit, or at the time of the first sale or transfer of the mobile home after December 31, or on May 1, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-29)
Sec. 38-23. - Application for permits; forms.
(a)
The mayor, city council or a designee are hereby authorized and empowered, subject to the specific provisions of this article, to prescribe application, permit and decal forms and thereafter to alter and change the same. The city clerk is empowered to require that applicants furnish such information in writing as may be reasonably required to effectuate the purposes of this article.
(b)
The mayor, city council or a designee are hereby authorized and empowered to enforce all provisions of this article.
(c)
The tax commissioner or a designee thereof shall be the enforcement official for each of the provisions adopted in this article, and the qualifications of the enforcement personnel shall be established under the rules and regulations of the department or city.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-30)
Sec. 38-24. - Location permit and decal.
(a)
Required; display. Each year, every owner of a mobile home situated in the city shall, on or before May 1, obtain from the county clerk a mobile home location permit which shall be issued upon proof of payment of taxes. The issuance of a permit by the county clerk shall be evidenced by the issuance of a decal, which shall be the same color as prescribed by state law, which shall reflect the city being the city of issuance and the calendar year for which the permit is issued. The decal shall be prominently attached and displayed where the decal shall be easily visible for inspection.
(b)
Penalty for violation of section. It shall be unlawful to fail to attach and display on a mobile home the decal as required. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25.00 nor more than $200.00, except that, upon receipt of proof of purchase of a decal prior to the date of the issuance of a summons, the fine shall be $25.00.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-31)
Sec. 38-25. - Time limit for obtaining location permit.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of each mobile or manufactured home to locate the home within the city and allow the home to remain so located for more than seven days without the display of a decal issued by the issuing authority of the city.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-32)
Sec. 38-26. - Issuance of relocation permit and decal; fees; display of decal; violation.
(a)
Specifications of decal. Any owner of a mobile home who has made application for the location or relocation of a mobile home and whose application meets the qualifications of this article shall be issued a permit and shall likewise be issued a decal. The decal to be issued with a permit authorizing location of a mobile home within the county shall be the same color as prescribed by state law and shall be affixed to the mobile home at all times it is within the confines of the city. The decal issued with the permit authorizing relocation of a mobile home shall be red in color and shall be affixed to the mobile home at all times the mobile home is being transported within the confines of this state. These decals shall be designated in such a manner and affixed to mobile homes in such manner as to cause them to be easily visible for inspection.
(b)
Location fee. Each application for a permit authorizing the location of a mobile home required by this article shall be accompanied by a fee which shall be paid to the city clerk before such permit shall be issued.
(c)
Relocation fee. Each application for a permit authorizing the relocation of a mobile home required by this article shall be accompanied by a fee which shall be paid to the city clerk before such permit shall be issued.
(d)
Transport without display of decal. It shall be unlawful for any person to move or transport any mobile home which is required to and which does not have attached and displayed thereon the decal provided for in this section.
(e)
Penalty for violation of section. Any person who violates this section shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200.00 or more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment for not more than 180 days, or both. Violation of this section may be prosecuted in any court of competent jurisdiction in the manner prescribed for the enforcement of city ordinances.
(f)
Fee. The permit fees shall be in amounts as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-33)
Sec. 38-27. - Notice to other city or county governments of relocation.
Whenever a permit authorizing the relocation of a mobile home is issued and the mobile home is to be relocated within the confines of another city or county in this state, the city clerk of this city shall notify the other city or county of the date of the issuance of the relocation permit.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-34)
Sec. 38-28. - Other mobile home regulations.
The issuance of any permit under the provisions of this article shall in no way be construed as superseding the requirement for the location of mobile homes as the location may be contained within other city ordinances or other actions of the city planning and zoning commission. The issuance of a permit under the provisions of this article shall not prohibit the planning and zoning commission from requiring a relocation of the mobile home to a place where the mobile home is lawfully permitted, but in such case the owner of the mobile home shall apply for and obtain a permit for the relocation as if the relocation were the result of his initiative.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-35)
Sec. 38-29. - Requirements for owners, managers and operators of mobile home parks.
(a)
Mobile home owners required to be permitted. No owner, manager or operator of a mobile home park shall permit any mobile home to be located or relocated within the confines of the park for residential use unless the permit required by this article shall have been obtained or applied for. No owner, manager or operator of any mobile home park shall permit any mobile home presently located within the limits of the park owned or operated by him to remain in the park after the date of this article unless a permit authorizing the continued location as required by this article shall have been obtained or shall have been applied for.
(b)
Inventory of mobile homes. Every owner, manager or operator of a mobile home park is required to give to the city clerk or a designee an inventory of all mobile homes based in the park as of January 1 of each year. This shall be done no later than 5:00 p.m. of the first business day of the year.
(c)
Registration of mobile home. Every owner, manager or operator of a mobile home park is required to notify all mobile home owners within the park of the requirement to register their mobile home for tax purposes with the city clerk.
(d)
Notice to owners of required relocation permit. Every owner, manager or operator of a mobile home park is required to notify all mobile home owners within the park of the requirement to obtain a city relocation permit before moving their mobile home.
(e)
Report of removal of mobile home. Every owner, manager or operator of a mobile home park is required to report to the city clerk any mobile home removal from the park prior to the mobile home being removed, if known, or upon discovery by the owner, manager or operator, if unknown.
(f)
Notification of change of ownership of mobile home. Every owner, manager or operator of a mobile home park is required to notify the city clerk of any change of ownership of a mobile home within the park within 30 calendar days of such change.
(g)
Monthly report. Every owner, manager or operator of a mobile home park is required to submit a monthly report recapping any changes in ownership of mobile homes in the park, any mobile homes moved out and any mobile homes moved into the park within the month of the report.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-36)
Sec. 38-30. - Failure to obtain permits prohibited.
No person shall occupy any mobile home as a residence nor permit any other person to occupy the mobile home as a residence unless a permit shall have been obtained as provided by this article.
(Ord. of 7-1-2012, § 70-37)
