ARTICLE VII. - FIREARMS DEALERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-161. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dealer means any person regularly engaged in the business of selling firearms.
Department means the city department of public safety.
Firearms means any pistol, revolver or derringer, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel projectiles by the action of an explosive.
Identification means any driver's license, birth certificate, U.S. passport, U.S. military identification card, baptismal or christening certificate, or employee's identification card, provided the same shows the age and home address of the employee.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71, 5-7-90)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-162. - Recordkeeping.
Each dealer within the city shall maintain complete and adequate records reflecting the disposition, at wholesale or retail, of all firearms physically or constructively disposed of in the course of this business. Entries of such records shall be posted at the time of each transaction. The records required by this section shall be in permanent form and shall be retained on the business premises of the dealer for a period of not less than ten years from the date the transaction occurs or until discontinuance of business by the dealer. Where there is a discontinuance of business by the dealer, all records of sales of firearms shall be delivered to the department within 90 days of the discontinuance. Where there is a transfer of the business of a dealer to new owner, the records will reflect those facts and will be delivered to the successor dealer. The records will show and include:
(1)
A full and adequate description of each firearm including:
a.
The manufacturer thereof;
b.
The manufacturer's serial number stamped thereon;
c.
The caliber of the firearm; and
d.
The model and type of firearm.
(2)
The disposition made of each firearm including the name, address and age of the person to whom sold and the date of disposition.
(3)
The evidence of identification furnished to the dealer by the purchaser.
(4)
A statement signed by purchaser setting forth:
a.
The purchaser's age;
b.
That the purchaser is not a fugitive from justice;
c.
That the purchaser is not under indictment or has not been convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year by or in any court; and
d.
That the purchase is made for the sole use of purchaser or members of the purchaser's immediate family.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-72, 5-7-90)
Sec. 22-163. - Fingerprint record.
(a)
In addition to the other records and information as called for in section 22-162, each dealer shall obtain from each person purchasing any firearm the fingerprint of the righthand index finger, unless that finger is missing in which event the print of the next finger in existence on the right hand of the person purchasing the firearm shall be obtained, with a notation as to the exact finger printed. If the purchaser has no right hand, the dealer shall require the fingerprint of the lefthand index finger, unless that finger is missing, in which event the print of the next finger in existence on the left hand of the person purchasing the firearm shall be obtained, with a notation as to the exact finger printed. Fingerprints and the information, as required in this section, shall be obtained from all persons each time that a person purchases any firearm, regardless of whether or not that person may have previously purchased a firearm from the dealer and been fingerprinted.
(b)
Failure to fingerprint the person purchasing a firearm shall constitute an offense under this article.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-73, 5-7-90)
Sec. 22-164. - Records subject to inspection by department of public safety.
All records required to be kept under the provisions of section 22-162 and all firearms held for resale by any dealer shall be subject to inspection by officers and agents of the department during regular business hours or, if regular business hours are not maintained, upon demand during the daytime.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-74, 5-7-90)
Sec. 22-165. - Compliance with article by dealer and purchaser.
Any failure to comply with the terms and provisions of this article by any dealer, or the furnishing of any false identification or statement by any purchaser under this article shall constitute an offense by the dealer or purchaser under this article.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-75, 5-7-90)
Sec. 22-166. - Sale and distribution of replica firearms.
(a)
Except as provided in this section, no person shall market for sale, distribute, or sell a replica or facsimile of a firearm which is a toy or imitation firearm which substantially duplicates an actual pistol or revolver.
(b)
As used in this section, the term "replica or facsimile of a firearm" shall include any device or object made of plastic, wood, or metal, or any other material, which can reasonably be perceived as an actual firearm. Such term does not include nonfiring replica of an antique firearm, nor shall it include starter pistols used in athletic events.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-76, 5-7-90)
Secs. 22-167—22-185. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL

Sec. 22-186. - Application of division.
This division shall not be construed to apply to toy pistols, toy revolvers or toy weapons of any kind, or to antique weapons which are used only for display. This division shall further not apply to casual sales between bona fide gun collectors, nor shall this division apply to any marshal, deputy marshal, sheriff, prison or jail warden, deputy prison or jail warden, correctional officer, police officer or other authorized law officer. No person regularly engaged in the manufacture, repair or sale of firearms shall be required to make application to obtain firearms as provided by this division.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(l), 5-7-90)
Sec. 22-187. - Compliance with division and furnishing of purchaser's identity required prior to sale, transfer, delivery or disposal.
It shall be unlawful for any dealer in firearms or for any employee, servant or agent of such dealer, to sell, transfer, deliver or dispose of, in any way, any firearms unless the person obtaining the firearm shall furnish identification to the dealer setting forth the person's name, present address and age. No dealer in firearms, nor any employee, servant or agent of such dealer, shall sell, transfer, deliver or dispose of, in any way, a pistol, revolver or short-barrelled firearm, the barrel of which is less than 15 inches in length, to any person within the city unless there shall first have been compliance with each provision of this division. For the purpose of this division, a dealer in firearms shall include any person engaged in the business of operating a pawnshop or other place where money is advanced on goods or other effects, or merchandise of any kind is taken in pawn.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71, 5-7-90)
Sec. 22-188. - Penalty for violation of division.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(m), 5-7-90)
Sec. 22-189. - Required.
No dealer in firearms, or any employee, servant or agent of such dealer, shall sell, transfer, deliver or dispose of in any way a pistol, revolver or short-barrelled firearm less than 15 inches in length as provided herein, unless the prospective purchaser shall have first obtained a certificate of approval from the director of public safety of the city and submitted such to the dealer.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(a), 5-7-90)
Sec. 22-190. - Application; contents.
The applicant shall file with the department of public safety an application furnished by the department stating the applicant's name, including any and all names by which the applicant may have previously been known; sex, race, age, height, color of hair, color of eyes; present address; any and all addresses for the applicant within the past five years; whether the applicant has been convicted of any crime of violence within the past five years; whether the applicant has been convicted of any felony related to firearms, sex, alcohol or drug offenses within the past five years; whether the applicant has been found guilty of the violation of any law governing the use of firearms within the past five years; whether the applicant is presently a fugitive from justice from any police jurisdiction within the United States; whether the applicant is presently suffering from any mental illness; whether the applicant has been treated for any mental illness within the past ten years, and if so, the location of the hospital or mental institution providing such treatment; and whether the applicant presently has a valid permit issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-11-129, and, if so, the date of issuance and the county of issuance of such permit. The application shall also provide the name and address of the dealer from whom the purchaser will purchase the firearm and the date such application is completed by the applicant.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(b), 5-7-90)
Sec. 22-191. - Applicant fingerprints; background history (criminal record); hospital or mental institution records.
(a)
The applicant shall provide a full set of fingerprints as may be required by the department of public safety; furthermore the applicant shall authorize said department to conduct a background history of any criminal record which the applicant may have related to the applicant's qualifications to purchase a firearm pursuant to this section. The applicant shall further authorize the department to obtain such hospital or mental institution records as may be required to determine the applicant's qualifications for purposes of this section.
(b)
After receipt of the application, the director of public safety or the director of public safety's designee shall conduct an investigation of the applicant, including a search of the applicant's fingerprint records, and hospital or mental institution records, if any.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(c), (d), 5-7-90; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 22-192. - Application processing fee.
The applicant shall pay to the department of public safety a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for the processing of the application, and such fee shall be paid at the time the application is delivered to the department.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(e), 5-7-90)
Sec. 22-193. - Approval; disapproval generally.
Within 15 days for a state resident or not less than one year and 60 days for a nonresident, from the delivery of the application provided in this division to the department of public safety, the director of public safety or the director of public safety's designee shall notify the dealer, indicated on the subject application in writing, of the approval or disapproval of the applicant; provided, however, that no dealer shall sell, transfer, deliver or dispose of, in any way, any firearms, as provided in this division, until and unless such dealer is notified of the approval by the director of public safety or the director of public safety's designee. Such approval shall remain in effect for a period of 90 days after the effective date thereof, and, if approved, such approval shall only permit the applicant to obtain a firearm from the dealer whose name shall appear upon the application. If disapproved, the dealer shall not sell, transfer, deliver or dispose of, in any way, any firearm to such applicant, and the applicant shall not make any further application until the expiration of six months after the effective date of such disapproval.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(f), 5-7-90; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 22-194. - Conditions for disapproval.
The director of public safety or the director of public safety's designee shall disapprove the disposition if the director or the director's designee shall determine that any of the following conditions apply to the applicant:
(1)
Such applicant has been convicted of a crime of violence within the past five years. For the purposes of this subsection, a crime of violence shall mean murder, manslaughter, rape, mayhem, assault, aggravated assault, assault with intent to murder, assault with intent to rape, assault with intent to rob, simple assault, simple battery, aggravated battery, robbery, burglary, kidnapping, or the crime of attempting to commit any of such crimes.
(2)
Such applicant has been convicted of any felony related to firearms, sex, alcohol or drug offenses within the past five years.
(3)
Such applicant has been found guilty of the violation of any law governing the use of firearms within the past five years.
(4)
Such applicant is presently a fugitive from justice from any police jurisdiction within the United States.
(5)
Such applicant is presently suffering from any mental illness.
(6)
Such applicant fails or refuses to complete the application or fails or refuses to complete any part of the application process.
(7)
Such applicant is under 21 years of age at the time the application is submitted to the department.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(g), 5-7-90; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 22-195. - Approval; obtaining firearms from dealer not on application.
(a)
The issuance of a pistol permit to the applicant under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 16-11-129, shall be prima facie evidence of good cause for the approval of the application by the director of public safety or the director of public safety's designee.
(b)
If the application is approved and the applicant elects to obtain a firearm from a dealer other than the dealer whose name appears upon the application, the applicant shall notify the department of the name and the address of such dealer, and the department shall promptly notify such dealer, in writing, of the applicant's eligibility to obtain a firearm.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(h), (i), 5-7-90; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 22-196. - Revocation of eligibility.
If at any time during the period for which the applicant retains the applicant's eligibility to obtain a firearm, the director of public safety or the director of public safety's designee shall learn or have brought to the applicant's attention in any manner any reasonable ground to believe the applicant is not entitled to retain the applicant's eligibility to obtain a firearm, the director or the director of public safety's designee may revoke the applicant's eligibility and shall promptly notify the dealer whose name appears upon the application of such revocation. The director or the director's designee shall further confiscate from the applicant any firearm obtained in contravention of the provisions of this division.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(j), 5-7-90; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 22-197. - Notification of disapproval or revocation; right of appeal.
If an applicant's eligibility is revoked, or if the applicant's application is disapproved, both as provided in this division, the director of public safety or the director of public safety's designee shall promptly notify the applicant of such disapproval or revocation and shall further notify the applicant that the applicant shall have the right to appeal the disapproval or revocation to the city commission. After a hearing, the action of the director of public safety or the director of public safety's designee shall be either affirmed or overruled.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(k), 5-7-90; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 22-198. - False information.
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly provide false information on an application to obtain firearms, as provided in this division.
(Ord. No. O-90-06, § 16-71(l), 5-7-90)
Secs. 22-199—22-225. - Reserved.
