Chapter 38 - EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Civil emergencies, ch. 30; law enforcement, ch. 62; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 70; traffic and vehicles, ch. 98.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ALARM SYSTEMS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Operation of electronic alarm systems by county or municipality, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12; license required to engage in low voltage alarm system contracting, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-8.1.

Sec. 38-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Automatic dialing device means any device connected to a security alarm system which automatically sends a prerecorded message or coded signal indicating the activation of the security alarm system to a predetermined location.
Calendar year means the period of time from January 1 through December 31.
False alarm means the activation of a security alarm system by other than a forced entry or attempted forced entry to the premises and at a time when no burglary or robbery is being committed or attempted on the premises.
Response means the dispatch of a police officer to the premises where a security alarm system has been activated.
Security alarm system means an assembly of equipment and/or devices designated and arranged to detect and signal an unauthorized intrusion into premises or to signal an attempted burglary or robbery on protected premises, and, with respect to such signal, department of public safety personnel are expected to respond.
(Ord. No. O-93-09, § 16-70, 12-20-93)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 38-32. - Penalty for violation of article.
(a)
Any person or business violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this article shall be summoned to the municipal court for each violation and noncompliance and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(b)
The city and the city schools shall be exempt from compliance with this article for security alarm systems installed in city-owned facilities within the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. No. O-93-09, § 16-71, 12-20-93)
Sec. 38-33. - Prohibited acts.
(a)
It is unlawful for anyone to activate any security alarm system for the purpose of summoning police except in the event of an actual or attempted burglary or robbery or other unauthorized intrusion into premises.
(b)
It is unlawful for anyone to notify the department of public safety of an activated security alarm system while having knowledge that such activation was apparently caused by an electrical or other malfunction of the security alarm system or by maintenance or service to the security alarm system and/or to fail at the same time to notify the police of such apparent malfunction or repair.
(c)
It is unlawful to directly notify the department of public safety of any alarm activation by means of any automatic dialing device or any telephonic recording, message, signal, or warning.
(Ord. No. O-93-09, § 16-72, 12-20-93)
Sec. 38-34. - False alarm fines.
For a response to any false alarm, the municipal court shall fine and collect such fines as follows from the person or business having and/or maintaining a security alarm system on the premises owned or occupied by such person:
(1)
For a first response to premises at which no other false alarm has occurred within a calendar year, there shall be no penalty.
(2)
For a second response to premises after a first response within a calendar year period, a written warning and a copy of this article shall be given, but the person having or maintaining such security alarm shall, within three working days after notice to do so, make a written report to the police chief, and if applicable, on prescribed forms setting forth the cause of such false alarm, the corrective action taken, whether such alarm has been inspected by an authorized service person, and such other information as may be required to determine the cause of such false alarm and necessary corrective action. Provision of this information is the sole responsibility of the offender.
(3)
For a third response to premises after a second response within a calendar year period, a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges shall be charged, but a written report may be required as for a second response and the police chief shall be authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected the security alarm system at the owner's expense by a certified service person and to prescribe necessary corrective action.
(4)
For a fourth and a fifth response to premises after a third and/or fourth response within a calendar year, a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges shall be charged, but a written report may be required as for a third and/or fourth response, and the police chief shall be authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected the security alarm system at such premises, prescribe necessary corrective action, and shall give notice to the person or business having or maintaining such security alarm system of the conditions and requirements of this article, including the fee requirements for six or more false alarm responses by the police division within each calendar year.
(5)
After a sixth response to premises within a calendar year, and for all succeeding responses within that calendar year, a fine as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges shall be charged, and if such false alarms are as a result of failure to take necessary corrective action prescribed by the police chief, disconnection of such security alarm system may be ordered. It shall be unlawful to reconnect such security alarm system until such corrective action is taken. No disconnection shall be ordered as to any premises required by law to have a security alarm system in operation.
(Ord. No. O-93-09, § 16-73, 12-20-93)
Sec. 38-35. - User fees.
Any person or business which maintains a security alarm system or fire alarm system which has a direct connection to an alarm display panel located in the communications center of the department of public safety shall be charged a fee per month, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, for such connection.
(Ord. No. O-93-09, § 16-74, 12-20-93)
Sec. 38-36. - Requirements for owners of businesses, residences or structures.
The owner of each business, residence, or structure equipped with a security alarm system must provide the police department or their alarm company with a minimum of three emergency phone numbers of persons who can be contacted in the case of an emergency or malfunction of the system. Listed persons must be able to enter the business, residence, or structure and secure the system within 30 minutes of its reported failure. These names and numbers shall also be posted in a conspicuous location on the premises where an independent alarm is located.
(Ord. No. O-93-09, § 16-75, 12-20-93)
