ARTICLE VIII. - PAWNSHOPS[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.

Sec. 22-226. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Employee means any person working for an owner or pawnbroker, or any owner or pawnbroker who, in the performance of duties or the management of the business affairs of a pawnshop, comes into substantial contact with members of the public, or is employed on a part-time or full-time basis, either with or without remuneration, by a pawnshop.
Pawn or pledge means a bailment of personal property as security for any debt or engagement, redeemable upon certain terms and with the implied power of sale on default.
Pawnbroker means any person, whether an owner or not, who works in a pawnshop on a regular basis and in a managerial capacity whereby the person has charge of the business or operations of the pawnshop. Pawnbroker includes any person whose business or occupation it is to take or receive, by way of pledge, pawn or exchange, any goods, wares or merchandise or any kind of personal property whatever, as security for the repayment of money lent thereon.
Pawnshop means any business wherein a substantial part thereof is to take or receive, by way of pledge, pawn or exchange, any goods, wares, merchandise or any kind of personal property as security for the repayment of money lent thereon.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-102, 12-21-92)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-227. - Penalty for violation of article; suspension or revocation of license.
(a)
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(b)
Any person failing to comply with any provision of this article, or such other laws, ordinances and regulations as may be passed by the city commissioners for the conduct of the business of a pawnbroker, or who is convicted in any court for a violation of any provision of this article or any other ordinance or regulation covering the conduct of the business for which a permit and license have been issued shall be subject to the denial, suspension or revocation of the business license.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-103, 12-21-92)
Sec. 22-228. - Responsibility for enforcement.
The public safety department shall have the responsibility for the enforcement of this article.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-104, 12-21-92)
Sec. 22-229. - Annual permit and license.
(a)
All persons, before beginning the business of operating a pawnshop or becoming an employee of a pawnshop or similar place where money is advanced on goods or other effects or merchandise of any kind is taken in pawn, shall first file an application with the public safety department and obtain an annual permit to conduct or be employed in the business. No permit shall be issued until a fee in the amount established by the city commissioners and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges is paid to the city clerk.
(b)
All pawnshops shall have a valid business license. The requirements of this section are in addition to the requirements of article II of this chapter.
(c)
The application for the permit required shall state the street and number at which it is proposed to operate the business. The application shall contain the full name, address, phone number, date of birth and social security number of all persons, including pawnbrokers, owning any interest in the proposed business, plus any additional information, including fingerprints, deemed necessary by the public safety department.
(d)
No business license shall be issued to a person until the permit required by this section has been approved by the public safety department.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-105, 12-21-92)
Sec. 22-230. - Employees.
No person shall be employed by a pawnshop in any capacity until such person has been fingerprinted by the public safety department and has been issued an annual permit authorizing such person to be employed by a pawnshop. It shall be the duty of the pawnbroker to ensure that there is compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-106, 12-21-92)
Sec. 22-231. - Character of persons connected with business.
No owner, stockholder, employee, pawnbroker or any other person connected with the business for which a license or permit is sought shall have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or shall have been convicted of any crime involving theft or a crime against property.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-107, 12-21-92)
Sec. 22-232. - Records.
All pawnbrokers shall keep books wherein shall be entered an accurate description of all property pledged, traded or sold to them. This description shall include, to the extent possible, the name of the maker of the article, any identifying mark or number and a statement of the kind of material of which it is made. In these books there shall be entered also the full name and address of the person by whom it was deposited or sold, and the time when it was done. These entries shall be made as soon after the transaction as is possible, but in no event more than one hour thereafter. The pawnbroker shall photograph the person pawning the merchandise along with a pawnbroker's ticket showing a transaction number. The pawnbroker shall obtain the right index fingerprint, provided it has not been amputated; if so, the next adjoining finger shall be acceptable.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-108, 12-21-92)
Sec. 22-233. - Daily reports; fingerprinting and photographing of persons pawning articles.
(a)
Every pawnbroker shall make a daily report in writing to the public safety department in such form as may be prescribed by the public safety department of all property pledged, traded or bought by such pawnbroker during the 24 hours ending at 9:00 p.m. on the date of the report. These reports shall be typewritten. In addition to any other information required by the public safety department, the reports shall show:
(1)
The name and address of the pawnbroker.
(2)
The time of transaction.
(3)
The serial numbers of pawn tickets.
(4)
The amount paid or advanced.
(5)
A full description of articles, including kind, style, material, color, design; kind and number of stones in jewelry; and all identifying names, marks and numbers.
(6)
A description of the person selling or pawning, including name, address, race, weight and height.
(b)
Insufficient reports shall be rejected, and any pawnbroker making them shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(c)
In addition to the other records and information, each pawnbroker shall obtain from each person pawning any articles with such pawnbroker the fingerprint of the righthand index finger, unless this finger is missing, in which event the print of the next finger in existence on the right hand of the person pawning the articles shall be obtained with a notation as to the exact finger printed. All prints shall be made on forms approved by the public safety department, and the pawnbroker shall obtain all other information called for on the approved form. Fingerprints and the information, as required in this section, shall be obtained from all persons each time these persons pawn any article with a pawnbroker, regardless of whether the person may have previously pawned an article with the pawnbroker and been fingerprinted.
(d)
In addition to other records and information, each pawnbroker shall photograph each customer with the photograph showing the pawnbroker's ticket and transaction number. This photograph shall be reduced to a negative form and maintained by the pawnbroker as a permanent record.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-109, 12-21-92)
Sec. 22-234. - Hours of operation.
Pawnbrokers may not keep open their places of business except between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-110, 12-21-92)
Sec. 22-235. - Waiting period prior to disposal of articles.
Any pawnbroker or person operating under a pawnbroker's license who takes goods on pawn or buys goods, taking full title thereto, the word "goods" being used in the broadest sense and including all kinds of personal property, shall hold these goods so taken in pawn or purchase for at least 30 days before disposing of them by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-111, 12-21-92)
Sec. 22-236. - Dealing with minors.
It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, the pawnbroker's agents or employees to receive goods in pawn from minors.
(Ord. No. O-92-20, § 12½-112, 12-21-92)
Secs. 22-237—22-239. - Reserved.
