Chapter 14 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Health and sanitation, ch. 54; law enforcement, ch. 62; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 70; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
Any person guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1967, § 5-17)
Sec. 14-2. - Running at large.
No animals, including horses, mules, cattle, hogs, sheep, goats, chickens or other fowl shall be permitted to run at large upon any street or public place or elsewhere within the city. Any person owning or controlling any such animals or fowl who shall allow any of such animals or fowl to run at large in the city in violation of this section shall, on conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1967, §§ 5-1, 5-20)
State Law reference— Livestock running at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to run at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6.
Sec. 14-3. - Impounding of animals running at large—Duty of police.
Any horses, mules, cattle, hogs, sheep, goats or other animals running at large in the city shall be taken up and impounded by the police department of the city.
(Code 1967, § 5-2)
Sec. 14-4. - Same—Payment of fee and costs.
The owner of any impounded animal shall pay to the marshal the sum as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges as an impounding fee and the cost of taking up and keeping such animal before the marshal shall render to such person the possession of such animal.
(Code 1967, § 5-3)
Sec. 14-5. - Same—Sale.
Should any owner of an impounded animal fail or refuse to pay the impounding fee and the expenses of taking up and keeping the animal within three days after the impounding of such animal, the marshal shall advertise such animal for sale by posting a notice in front of the city hall and two other public places of the city for five days, after which time such animal shall be sold at public outcry by the marshal to the highest bidder for cash between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
(Code 1967, § 5-4)
Sec. 14-6. - Same—Disposition of fee and costs.
The marshal shall pay out of the sale of an impounded animal the impounding fee prescribed by section 14-4 and the expense for keeping such animal. The balance, if any, shall be turned over to the owner of the animal if called for on or before December 31 of the year in which the animal is sold. If not called for by such date, such balance shall be paid into the city treasury.
(Code 1967, § 5-5)
Sec. 14-7. - Keeping of hogs and pigs.
It shall be unlawful to keep hogs or pigs within the city.
(Code 1967, § 5-6)
Sec. 14-7.1. - Livestock.
The following restrictions are established for keeping livestock such as cattle, horses and similar animals.
(1)
Livestock shall be permitted on properties of at least two acres in size.
(2)
All buildings used for livestock shall be located at least 200 feet from any property line.
(3)
All livestock shall be maintained at least 100 feet from any property line.
(4)
There shall be a minimum of 5,000 square feet of fenced lot area not covered by the principal building or structure for each livestock animal.
(5)
Live slaughter shall be prohibited.
(Ord. No. O-99-19, § 12, 12-20-99; Ord. No. O-12-Z-22, § 1, 12-3-12)
Sec. 14-8. - Keeping of fowl and small domesticated animals—General regulations.
Small domesticated animals, such as rabbits and guinea pigs and fowl, such as chickens, ducks, geese, guineas, turkeys and the like may be kept within the city subject to the following regulations:
(1)
All such animals shall be provided with adequate and sanitary housing. Such houses, hutches, pens, stables, sheds, stalls and enclosures wherein domesticated animals, poultry or other fowl are kept shall have a solid floor as may be approved by the county health officer. All such houses, hutches, pens, stables, sheds, stalls and enclosures, wherever located, shall have a minimum floor space of four square feet per animal or bird over one month old.
(2)
All houses, hutches, pens, stables, sheds, stalls or enclosures where such livestock, poultry or other fowl are kept shall not be nearer to any houses wherein human beings reside, other than the residence of the person who is the owner of such animals, than a distance equal to the width of the lot upon which the animals are kept, or a minimum distance of 75 feet should the lot be 75 feet or more in width.
(3)
Every person owning or keeping chickens or any other domestic fowl in the city is hereby required to keep such fowl and chickens under fence and not allow such chickens or fowl to run on any property other than said person's own property.
(4)
Live slaughter shall be prohibited.
(Code 1967, § 5-8; Ord. No. O-12-Z-22, § 2, 12-3-12; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 14-9. - Same—Sanitary requirements.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having control of the use of any house, hutch, pen, stable, stall or enclosure or other place where domesticated animals, poultry or fowl are kept to allow the same to become filthy or unsanitary. Every person who owns or keeps such domesticated animals, poultry or fowl shall maintain in connection therewith a bin, pit or container in which the manure from such animals, poultry or fowl shall be placed pending removal. Such bin, pit or container shall be provided with covers or other devices, sufficient to prevent the ingress and egress of flies and other insect pests. All persons controlling such places where domesticated animals, poultry or fowl are kept shall remove all manure from such bins, pits or containers before the same shall become malodorous or unsanitary. However, any such person may use such manure upon said person's premises for the purpose of enriching said person's own ground.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person who possesses, harbors or is in charge of any animal not to immediately remove excrement deposited by the animal in the public right-of-way, in a city park or on private property not owned by the person responsible for the animal. Animal waste must be removed and disposed of in a sanitary manner.
(c)
It shall be the duty of any person having custody or control of any animal in the city to have in such person's possession a device or equipment for the picking up and removal of animal excrement when the animal is not confined to that person's property. The provisions of this section shall not apply to an animal aiding the handicapped (e.g., guide dog) or to an animal when in police or rescue activities.
(Code 1967, § 5-9; Ord. No. O-05-05, Art. I, § 1, 4-4-05; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 14-10. - Same—Drainage of pens and other areas.
All places wherein livestock, poultry or fowl are kept shall have adequate drainage sufficient to prevent standing water in yards or pens.
(Code 1967, § 5-10)
Sec. 14-11. - Same—Use of lime or other chemicals required.
All yards or pens wherein livestock, poultry or fowl are kept shall be regularly covered with lime or other suitable chemical agents, as may be approved by the county health officer, to prevent bad odors or nuisances to neighbors.
(Code 1967, § 5-11)
Sec. 14-12. - Same—Exemptions.
The preceding four sections shall not apply to regular poultry or meat markets licensed by the city where poultry is kept for instant sale and where such poultry is kept in metal or wooden cages so it can be sold or slaughtered, provided that this section shall be applicable only where such poultry is located within a building which has been zoned for such business by the city.
(Code 1967, § 5-12)
Sec. 14-13. - Diseased animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to have or keep within the city any domesticated animal, poultry or fowl infected with a disease which may contaminate other animals, poultry or fowl.
(Code 1967, § 5-13)
Sec. 14-14. - City designated as bird sanctuary.
The entire area embraced within the city is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
(Code 1967, § 5-15)
Sec. 14-15. - Hunting, shooting, trapping or molesting birds or wild fowl; exception when certain birds constitute a nuisance.
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests; provided, however, that if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city, then such health authorities shall meet with representatives of the Audubon Society, bird club, garden club and humane society, or as many of such societies and clubs as are found to exist in the city, after having given at least three days' actual notice of the time and place of such meeting to the representatives of such societies and clubs. If as a result of such meeting no satisfactory alternative is found to abate such nuisance, then such birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in such manner as is deemed advisable by such health authorities under the supervision of the chief of police.
(Code 1967, § 5-16)
Secs. 14-16—14-29. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ANIMAL CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Dogfighting, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-37; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-7.

Sec. 14-30. - General responsibilities of owners.
(1)
It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal, or anyone having possession or custody of any animal, to exercise reasonable care and to take all necessary steps and precautions to protect other people, property and animals from injuries or damages which might result from such behavior, regardless of whether such behavior is motivated by mischievousness, playfulness or ferocity.
(2)
If the owner or keeper of any animal is a minor, the parent or guardian of such minor shall be responsible to ensure that there is compliance with provisions of this chapter.
(3)
If the owner or keeper of any animal is not the owner of the property where the animal is domiciled, the person having right of possession of the property shall also be responsible to ensure that there is compliance with provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-99-19, § 9, 12-20-99)
Sec. 14-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned animal means any animal which shall have been placed upon public property or within a public building unattended or uncared for, or upon or within the private property of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian, or tenant of the private property and unattended or uncared for. Any animal shall also be considered as abandoned which shall have been upon or within the property of the owner or custodian of such animal for a period of time in excess of 36 hours unattended or without proper food and water.
Abused animal means any animal which is any of the following:
(1)
Mistreated, beaten, tormented or teased.
(2)
Deprived of water, food or shelter.
(3)
Kept under unsanitary conditions.
(4)
Abandoned.
(5)
Trained for fighting other animals.
(6)
Transported in the trunk of any vehicle.
(7)
Left unattended in a vehicle in extreme heat without proper ventilation.
Animal at large means an animal not under restraint.
Animal control center means the facility designated by the city manager for the detention of animals.
Animal control officer means that person designated as such by the city manager to perform the duties prescribed by this article.
Animal under restraint means any animal secured by a leash or lead or enclosed by way of fence or other enclosure or any animal confined within a vehicle, parked or in motion.
Companion animal means a domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility. Pets include, but are not limited to, birds, cats, dogs, hamsters, horses, mice, reptiles, domesticated wild animals, exotic animals, and other animals associated with human's environment.
Dangerous animal means any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or other domestic animals by virtue of a known propensity to endanger life by an unprovoked assault or by biting so as to cause serious bodily harm or an animal trained, owned, or harbored for the purpose, primarily or in part, of animal fighting.
An animal shall not be deemed dangerous if:
(1)
It bites, attacks or menaces:
a.
Anyone assaulting the owner;
b.
A trespasser on the property of the owner; or
c.
Any person or other animal who has tormented or abused it.
(2)
It is otherwise acting in defense of an attack from a person or other animal upon the owner or other person.
(3)
It is protecting or defending its young or other animal.
Dog park means an area within a city-owned park designated by signs, fencing or other appropriate boundaries as a free-run area for dogs when the dog is under the control of a responsible and competent person and obedient to that person's commands and such person is present with the animal.
Domesticated animals means such as are accustomed to live in or about the habitation of humans including, but not limited to, cats, cows, dogs, fowl, horses, swine, domesticated wild animals, and/or exotic animals. This definition only applies to those animals mentioned and is only applicable to this article, and in no way affects the meaning or application of a definition of the described animal, as may be found in any other city ordinances.
Guard dog means any dog which has been trained to attack persons or other animals independently or upon oral command and any dog which, while not so trained, is reasonably expected to perform as a guardian of the property upon and within which the dog is located.
Owner means any person owning, keeping, harboring, or acting as custodian of a domesticated animal.
(Code 1967, § 5-18; Ord. No. O-99-19, §§ 1, 2, 12-20-99; Ord. No. O-05-05, Art. II, §§ 1, 2, 4-4-05; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-32. - Certain animals deemed public nuisance.
Any animal which:
(1)
Is found at large in violation of sections 14-2, 14-33, and 14-34, as set out in this section;
(2)
Is a dangerous animal, as defined by this chapter;
(3)
Produces, because of the quantity, manner, or method in which such animals are domesticated or maintained, unsanitary conditions in the city;
(4)
Attacks passersby or passing vehicles;
(5)
Makes or causes frequent or long-continued noise which disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity; and/or
(6)
Is inimical to the public health, welfare, or safety according to the rules and regulations promulgated by the county board of health, which rules and regulations are incorporated in this section and made a part of this section as if fully set out in this article;
(7)
Is unlicensed (unregistered) in violation of the Dekalb County Code of Ordinances section 5-12;
(8)
Is trained, owned, or harbored for the purpose, primarily or in part, of dogfighting;
(9)
Is dangerous, as defined, and is not restrained or confined, as provided in section 14-34.
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Any person who knowingly keeps, owns, harbors, or acts as custodian of an animal constituting such nuisance shall be guilty of an unlawful act and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1967, § 5-19; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 3, 12-20-99)
Sec. 14-32.1. - Training for fighting prohibited.
No person shall keep, buy, sell, trade, exchange, give, transport or deliver any animal:
(1)
For the purposes of training the animal, primarily or in part, for animal fighting.
(2)
Which has been trained, primarily or in part, for animal fighting.
(3)
Which has been or is intended to be engaged in any manner in animal fighting.
A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. No. O-99-19, § 10, 12-20-99)
Sec. 14-33. - Duty of owner to keep animal under restraint while on property.
(a)
It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal, or anyone having possession or custody of any animal, to ensure that the animal is kept under restraint and that reasonable care and precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving, while unattended, the real property limits of its owner, possessor or custodian, and to ensure that:
(1)
The animal is securely and humanely enclosed within a house, building, fence, pen or other enclosure out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump or otherwise escape on its own volition. Such enclosure must be securely locked at any time the animal is left unattended.
(2)
No animal shall be chained, tethered or otherwise tied to any inanimate object such as a tree, post or building, outside of its own enclosure as provided for in paragraph (a)(1).
(3)
The animal is on a leash and under the control of a competent person; or is off leash and obedient to that person's command and that person is present with the animal any time it is not restrained as provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this subsection.
(b)
Additional requirements for precautions to be taken by owners of dangerous animals are:
(1)
Whenever outside of its enclosure as provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but on the owner's property, a dangerous dog must be attended by the owner and restrained by a secure collar and leash of sufficient strength to prevent escape.
(2)
In addition to the requirement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for owners of dangerous animals who maintain their animals out-of-doors, a portion of their property must be fenced with a perimeter or other area fence. Within the perimeter fence, the dangerous animal must be humanely confined inside a pen or kennel of adequate size. The pen or kennel may not share common fencing with the area of the perimeter fence. The kennel or pen must have secure sides and a secure top attached to all sides; the sides must either be buried two feet into the ground, sunken into a concrete pad or securely attached to a wire bottom. The gate to a kennel must be kept locked except for entrance thereto or exit therefrom.
(c)
A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1967, § 5-21; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 4, 12-20-99)
Sec. 14-34. - Duty of owner to keep animal under restraint while off of property.
It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal or anyone having an animal in said person's possession to keep the animal under restraint at all times while the animal is off the real property limits of the owner, possessor, or custodian. For the purposes of this section, an animal is deemed under restraint when it is confined within a vehicle, parked or in motion, is secured by a leash or other device held by a competent person, is within the boundaries of a designated dog park under voice command of a competent person and such person is present with the animal, or the animal is properly confined within an enclosure with the permission of the owner of the property where the enclosure is located. A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1967, § 5-22; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 5, 12-20-99; Ord. No. O-05-05, Art. II, § 3, 4-4-05; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 14-35. - Collar and tag required for dog and cat.
It shall be the duty of each dog and cat owner, possessor, or custodian thereof to provide a collar for said person's dog and cat to which the rabies inoculation tag shall be attached. The collar, together with the tag, shall be worn by the dog and cat at all times. Failure to comply with this section shall be unlawful and shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1967, § 5-24; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 6, 12-20-99; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 14-36. - Enforcement.
(a)
Summons to appear in municipal court. Upon information made known to the chief of police, or the chief of police's authorized representative, that any owner, possessor, or custodian of any dog or animal is in violation of this article, the chief of police or the chief of police's authorized representative shall cause a summons to be issued requiring the owner, possessor, or custodian of such dog or animal to appear before the municipal court judge of the city on a day and time certain, then and there to stand trial for the violation of this article. If a violation of this article has not been personally witnessed by the chief of police or the chief of police's authorized representative, a subpoena shall be issued to the person making the complaint, to appear on the day and time set for trial, then and there to testify on behalf of the city.
(b)
Impoundment. If the owner, possessor, or custodian of any dog or animal is not known and such dog or animal is upon the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, school grounds, or other public places or premises, or the property of another without the property owner's permission, as prohibited by this article, upon complaint made to, or information made known to, the police department, it shall be the duty of the chief of police or the chief of police's authorized representative to take possession of such dog or animal and impound it in a facility designated by the city manager for the detention of animals. To the extent possible, the city manager shall designate that such impoundments shall be at the animal control center of the county, and such impoundments shall be regulated by such ordinances of the county board of commissioners as are enacted to regulate impoundments made by the county.
(c)
Authority of county animal control officers to impound. In the enforcement of the provisions of this article, all animal control officers employed as such by the county are hereby authorized when they witness, while on duty, violation of the provisions of this article within the corporate limits of the city, to cause summons to be issued requiring the owner, possessor or custodian of such dog or animal to appear before the municipal judge of the city on a day and time certain, then and there to stand trial for the violation of this article. If the owner, possessor, or custodian of any dog or animal is not known and such dog or animal is upon the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, school grounds, or other public places or premises, or the property of another without the property owner's permission, as prohibited by this article, to take possession of such dog or animal and impound it in a facility designated as stated in subsection (b) of this article, and such animal control officers of the county are specifically deputized as animal control officers of the city for the purposes described in this section.
(Code 1967, § 5-25; Ord. No. O-22-11 , § 2(Exh. A), 10-17-22)
Sec. 14-37. - Notice to owners of impounded animals.
Notices to owners of any animal impounded at the county animal control center shall be given as prescribed by the ordinances of the county for the giving of notice for any animal impounded by the county.
(Code 1967, § 5-26)
Sec. 14-38. - Vaccinations for rabies and inoculation tags required for dogs and cats.
All dogs and cats in the incorporated limits of the city shall be inoculated for the prevention of rabies by a licensed veterinarian. Evidence of this inoculation in the form of a rabies inoculation tag shall be worn by the dog and cat at all times.
(Code 1967, § 5-27; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 7, 12-20-99)
Sec. 14-39. - Guard dogs.
It shall be the duty of each owner, tenant, or custodian of property upon or within which a guard dog is located to conspicuously and prominently post the following notice on the outside of the property:
WARNING
GUARD DOG
in either red or black letters upon a white background, large enough to be easily read at a distance of 25 feet. In the case of a building, such notice shall be conspicuously posted on or about each and every entrance and exit. In the case of a general enclosure in which a guard dog is located, such notices shall be conspicuously posted upon such enclosure at a distance not greater than 50 feet apart as well as upon each and every entrance and exit through the enclosure. In the case of apartments, condominiums, or businesses located within a larger building where the guard dog is located within the apartment, condominium, or building solely, such notice shall be conspicuously posted on or about each and every entrance and exit. Failure to comply with this section shall be unlawful and shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1967, § 5-28)
Sec. 14-39.1. - Dangerous animals.
(a)
If a law enforcement or codes enforcement agent of the city has probable cause to believe that a dangerous animal is being harbored in violation of this chapter, such agent may do one of the following:
(1)
Order the violation immediately corrected and cite the owner or keeper to appear in court for the violation.
(2)
If the violation cannot be immediately corrected and the animal is posing an immediate, serious threat to human beings or other domesticated animals, the animal may be seized and impounded, in which case the owner or keeper will be cited to appear in court for the violation. At the owner's request and expense, such impoundment may be at a veterinarian or licensed kennel of the owner's choosing. If the court rules that the animal is not dangerous, it will be released to the owner. If the court rules that it is dangerous, the animal will be released to the owner after payment of any fees and penalties and upon presentation of proof that the animal will now be kept restrained or confined as specified in section 14-33.
(b)
If the owner or keeper of an alleged dangerous animal impounded for violation of this chapter presents proof that the animal will now be kept in compliance with this chapter, the animal will be released upon payment of any fees and penalties due.
(c)
Notwithstanding any specific provision to the contrary, if an owner or keeper of dangerous animal fails to provide proof that the animal will be restrained or confined within compliance with the provisions of section 14-33; or, fails to reclaim it after impoundment; or, fails to keep the dangerous animal restrained or confined within compliance with the provisions of section 14-33; then section 5-6(c) and/or (d) of the DeKalb County Code of Ordinances will apply.
(Ord. No. O-99-19, § 11, 12-20-99)
Sec. 14-40. - Abandonment or abuse of animals.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to knowingly abandon or abuse any domesticated animal within the city. Each person who does abandon or abuse knowingly, or willingly permits such abandonment or abuse, or aids in the abandonment or abuse of any domesticated animal, shall be in violation of the law and shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1967, § 5-29; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 8, 12-20-99)
Sec. 14-41. - Fee schedule.
In the reclaiming of animals from the county animal control center, such fees shall prevail as are established by the county board of commissioners.
(Code 1967, § 5-30)
Sec. 14-42. - Wild animals—Permit required.
No person shall have, keep, or maintain any wild, exotic, dangerous, or nondomestic animal or reptile without first applying to and receiving from the police department a permit to do so. The charge for this permit shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1967, § 5-31)
Sec. 14-43. - Same—Authority of police department.
The police department is hereby invested with the authority to issue permits to any person for the keeping or maintaining of any wild, exotic, dangerous, or nondomestic animal or reptile when, in the opinion of the police chief, any such animal or reptile may be kept or maintained without menacing the safety of any person or property; provided, however, that the police department may require any such animal or reptile to be properly caged or secured or may make additional rules or regulations regarding the keeping or maintaining of any such animal or reptile, and may revoke any such permit for any violation of any of the provisions of this article or of any of the rules and regulations of the police department, or when, in the opinion of the police chief, the safety of any person or property is menaced by the keeping of any such animal or reptile.
(Code 1967, § 5-32)
