PART II - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - PARKING AUTHORITY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2892 which created and established the City of Decatur Parking Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Traffic and vehicles, ch. 98.

Section 1. - Short title.
This may be cited as the "City of Decatur Parking Authority Act."
Section 2. - City of Decatur Parking Authority.
There is hereby created a body corporate and political, to be known as the City of Decatur Parking Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, and a public corporation by that name and style; said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The Authority shall consist of 3 members.
The original members of the Authority and their initial terms of office shall be as follows:
EXPAND
James F. Davis
433 Glenndale Avenue 1 year term
Wiley S. Ansley
179 Pinecrest Avenue 1 year term
Dr. J. Davison Philips
344 S. Candler Street 1 year term
  The "initial" terms of office shall extend from the organizational meeting of the Authority in 1968 until its annual meeting in 1969. All subsequent terms of office shall be for four years. All vacancies in the membership of the Authority, whether caused by expiration of term of office, death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filed by the governing Authority of the City of Decatur, Georgia, upon nomination by the Chairman of the City Commission or the Chief Executive officer and confirmation by the governing body of said city. Any member of the Authority may be elected to succeed himself. All members, duly appointed, shall hold office until his or her successor shall be appointed and duly qualified. Any member, appointed to fill an unexpired term, shall serve for only the term of the member he or she replaced.
The Authority shall elect one of its members as chairman, and another member as vice-chairman, both of whom shall be elected for a term of one (1) year, the first chairman and vice-chairman to serve from the organizational meeting of the Authority in 1968, and until the annual meeting in 1969, or until their successors are elected and qualified. Subsequent chairmen and vice-chairmen shall be elected at the annual meeting of the Authority for a term of one (1) year. It shall also elect a secretary and treasurer who does not necessarily have to be a member of the Authority and, if not a member, he or she will have no voting rights and shall be elected for such term as may be determined by the Authority. If a member of the Authority is elected to serve as secretary and treasurer, he or she will be elected in the same manner and for the same term as the chairman and vice-chairman. No member of the Authority shall hold more than one office except that of secretary and treasurer. Two members of the Authority eligible to vote shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the quorum is empowered to exercise all of the rights and perform all the duties of the Authority and no vacancy on the Authority shall impair the right of the quorum to act. The members of the Authority shall serve without compensation, except that they shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. The Authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
Section 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the words and terms in this section shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the City of Decatur Parking Authority created in section 2 of this Act.
(b)
The words "Projects" or "Project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, and operation of parking lots, parking garages, parking deck or similar improvements and the usual facilities related thereto, with the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, in the lease or sale of any part of all of such facilities, including real and personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance and operation of such facilities and area, deemed by the Authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the Authority's title thereto and leases thereof, the cost of preparing the land, including the installation of storm and sanitary sewers, the cost of all machinery, equipment and furnishings related to the operation of any project or projects, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for six months after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses and other expenses necessary and incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized and the cost of placing any project in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as part of the "cost of the project or projects" and may be paid or reimbursed out of funds of the Authority including the proceeds of any revenue bonds issued under provisions of this Act for such project or projects.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds," "bonds" and "obligations" as used in this Act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761, as amended) and such type of obligations may be issued by the Authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto; and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the Authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter authorized in this Act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the Authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the Authority therefrom and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Section 4. - Powers.
The Authority shall have the powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by gift, purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(d)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and to dispose by conveyance of its title in fee simple of real and personal property of every kind and character, and any and all persons, firms and corporations, all cities, towns and counties, and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the State are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the Authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable;
(e)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, furnish, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the Authority or from such proceeds or other funds made available to the Authority;
(f)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America of such agency or instrumentality, may impose;
(g)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may impose;
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(i)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this State;
(j)
The Authority and any trustee acting under any trust indenture, are specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real and personal, or interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose of which the Authority was created, except as such right and power may be limited as provided in section 18 hereof;
(k)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
Section 5. - Revenue bonds—Generally.
The Authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the Authority created hereby shall have the power and is hereby authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost, as herein defined, of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed in the Revenue Bond Law or any amendment thereto, shall be payable semiannually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding thirty (30) years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payments as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the Authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761, as amended), and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto.
Section 6. - Same—Form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The Authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denominations or denomination of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the State. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the Authority may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
Section 7. - Same—Signature; seal.
All such bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairman or vice-chairman of the Authority, which shall be attested to by the secretary of and the treasurer of the Authority and the official seal of the Authority shall be affixed thereto. Any coupons attached thereto, shall bear the facsimile signature of the secretary and treasurer of the Authority. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery.
Section 8. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of the State. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the State.
Section 9. - Same—Sale; price.
The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the Authority, but no such sale shall be made at a price less than par as provided in the Revenue Bond Law, unless said Revenue Bond Law be hereafter amended to permit the sale of such bonds at less than par.
Section 10. - Same—Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit, which unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose of which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into such funds as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture.
Section 11. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Section 12. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Section 13. - Same—Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the Authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the Authority by a majority of the quorum as in this Act provided.
Section 14. - Same—Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of any city or county in the State of Georgia but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate any city or county in said state to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make an appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this Section.
Section 15. - Same—Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the Authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the Authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, rents, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the Authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale, from time to time, of any surplus property of the Authority, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation repair and insurance of the property, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the Authority, both real and personal, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the Authority and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the Authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the Authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Section 16. - Same—To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The Authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purpose hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
Section 17. - Same—Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued and any monies derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal, of the Authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the Authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the Authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agent or agents for paying principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in any trust indenture, but, except as indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Section 18. - Same—Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by any trust indenture may, either at law or in equity, by suit or by action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the Authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging and collecting of revenues, bonds, fees, tolls and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Section 19. - Same—Refunding bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the Authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof and the duties of the Authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Section 20. - Same—Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such Authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of DeKalb County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Section 21. - Same—Validation.
Bonds of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States Government or any department or agency of the United States Government, if subject to be sued, which has contracted with the Authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms of and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the Authority issuing the same, and against any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the City of Decatur Parking Authority.
Section 22. - Same—Interest or bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said Authority, or of its officers, employees or agents, shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the Authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the Authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Section 23. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, revenues, incomes, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Section 24. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the general purpose of the Authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining and operating parking lots, parking garages, parking decks, and the usual facilities related thereto and the usual convenient facilities appertaining to such undertaking, and the extensions and improvements of such facilities; the extensions and improvement of such facilities; acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the authority, necessary, convenient, and desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings.
Section 25. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe for and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges, and to revise from time to time, and collect such rates, tolls, fees and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions or subleases of its lands or facilities, or contracts for the use of the its land and facilities, and to determine the price and terms at and under which its lands or facilities may be sold, and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, is authorized to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipment, betterment or extension of its lands and facilities and to pledge the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto, thereafter made or the sale of any of its land and facilities.
Section 26. - Properties exempt from taxation.
The properties of the Authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia, and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the Authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the state or any political subdivision thereof.
Section 27. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the Authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act.
Section 28. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
ARTICLE II. - OFF-STREET PARKING[2]
"The City of Decatur in the County of DeKalb shall have power and authority to issue and sell revenue anticipation obligations subject to and in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Act of the General Assembly approved March 31, 1937, known as the `Revenue Certificate Laws of 1937' as heretofore amended and as the same may hereafter be amended, to provide funds for the purchase of lands and the construction and establishment thereon of off-street automobile parking lots, structures, buildings, garages and facilities. Said city shall have power and authority to equip, maintain and operate such parking lots, structures, buildings, garages and facilities, and to appoint a commission to operate a parking authority which shall have all of the powers, privileges and authority set forth in this constitutional provision."
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1968 Ga. Laws, page 1515 which amended Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph V of the state constitution to authorize the city and county to sell revenue anticipation obligations to finance off-street parking. The amendment was continued in force and effect after July 1, 1987 as part of the constitution by 1987 Ga. Laws, page 3790. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Traffic and vehicles, ch. 98.

ARTICLE III. - AD VALOREM TAX DEFERRAL[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1989 Ga. Laws, page 3985 which provides for deferral of city ad valorem taxes for certain elderly persons. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 94.

Section 1. - Short title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Decatur Tax Deferral for the Elderly Act."
Section 2. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"City" means the City of Decatur, Georgia.
(2)
"City clerk" means the city clerk of the City of Decatur.
(3)
"Governing authority" means the governing authority of the City of Decatur.
(4)
"Gross household income" means all income, for all individuals residing within the homestead, from whatever source derived including, but not limited to, the following sources:
(A)
Compensation for services including fees, commissions, and similar items;
(B)
Gross income derived from business;
(C)
Gains derived from dealings in property;
(D)
Interest;
(E)
Rents;
(F)
Royalties;
(G)
Dividends;
(H)
Alimony and separate maintenance payments;
(I)
Income from life insurance and endowment contracts;
(J)
Annuities;
(K)
Pensions;
(L)
Income from discharge of indebtedness;
(M)
Distributive share of partnership gross income;
(N)
Income from an interest in an estate or trust; and
(O)
Federal old-age, survivor, or disability benefits.
(5)
"Household" means an individual or group of individuals living together in a room or group of rooms as a housing unit.
Section 3. - Annual application.
(a)
Any individual aged 62 or older who is entitled to claim a homestead exemption pursuant to a resolution adopted by the 1981 General Assembly, H.R. 142 (1981 Ga. Laws, page 1914) and subsequently ratified as an amendment to the Constitution of the State of Georgia in the General Election in 1982, may elect to defer payment of all or part of the ad valorem taxes levied on that homestead by filing an annual application for tax deferral with the city clerk on or before March 1 of the year for which the deferral is sought. If the homestead for which a deferral is requested has an assessed value for purposes of ad valorem taxation of $100,000.00 or more, the deferral may apply only to the taxes on that portion of the assessed value which is $100,000.00 or less.
(b)
It shall be the burden of each applicant for a deferral to demonstrate affirmatively the applicant's compliance with the requirements of this Act.
Section 4. - Grant restrictions.
No tax deferral in any one year shall be granted pursuant to Section 3 of this Act:
(1)
If the total amount of deferred taxes and interest plus the total amount of all other unsatisfied liens on the homestead exceeds 85 percent of the fair market value of the homestead as shown on the city tax digest for the immediately preceding tax year;
(2)
If the applicant's gross household income for the immediately preceding calendar year exceeds $20,000.00;
(3)
If the homestead for which the deferral is sought is subject to any lien, the terms of which are dictated by federal law, rule, or regulation prohibiting deferral of taxes or is subject to any tax lien under the laws of this state, other than a lien established pursuant to this Act;
(4)
With respect to taxes levied to retire bonded indebtedness or for special assessments; or
(5)
If any spouse of the applicant has not waived in writing, upon the application for deferral, any right that spouse might have in such homestead property under O.C.G.A. § 53-5-1 et seq. relating to year's support.
(1990 Ga. Laws, page 4079)
Section 5. - Application form; oath; approval or disapproval; appeal; list of liens; proof of fire and extended coverage insurance.
(a)
The application for deferral shall be made upon a form prescribed by the local governing authority and furnished by the city clerk. The application form shall advise the applicant of the manner in which interest is computed. Each application form shall contain an explanation of the conditions to be met for approval and the conditions under which deferred taxes and interest become due, payable, and delinquent. Each application form shall clearly state that all deferrals pursuant to this Act shall constitute a lien on the applicant's homestead.
(b)
A form of oath shall be provided and shall be administered to the individual seeking the deferral. The oath may be administered by the city clerk, any authorized deputy city clerk, or any individual authorized by law to administer oaths.
(c)  (1) The city clerk shall consider each annual application for homestead tax deferral within 30 days of the date the application is filed or as soon as practicable thereafter. If the city clerk finds that the applicant is entitled to the tax deferral, the clerk shall approve the application and file the application in the permanent records. If the city clerk finds that the applicant is not entitled to the deferral, the clerk shall send a notice of disapproval to the applicant giving the reasons therefor within 30 days of the filing of the application either by personal delivery or by registered or certified mail to the mailing address given by the applicant, and the clerk shall make a return on the original notice of the manner in which the notice was served on the applicant and shall file the return among the permanent records of his office. The original notice of disapproval sent to the applicant shall advise the applicant of the applicant's right to appeal the decision of the city clerk to the local governing authority and shall inform the applicant of the procedure for filing an appeal.
(2)
An appeal of the decision of the city clerk to the local governing authority shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the local governing authority and furnished by the city clerk. The appeal shall be filed with the local governing authority within 20 days after the applicant's receipt of the notice of disapproval. The local governing authority shall review the application and evidence presented to the city clerk upon which the applicant based the applicant's claim for a tax deferral and, at the election of the applicant, shall hear the applicant in person or by agent in the applicant's behalf on the applicant's right to a homestead tax deferral. The local governing authority shall reverse the decision of the city clerk and shall grant a homestead tax deferral to the applicant if in its judgment the applicant is entitled thereto, or it shall affirm the decision of the city clerk. Such action by the local governing authority shall be final unless the applicant, city clerk, or other lienholder files an appeal with the Superior Court of DeKalb County within 30 days from the date the taxpayer receives written notification of the decision of the local governing authority.
(d)
Each application shall contain a list, and the current value, of all outstanding liens on the applicant's homestead.
(e)
If proof of fire and extended coverage insurance has not been furnished with a prior application, each applicant shall furnish proof of such insurance in an amount which is in excess of the sum of all outstanding liens and deferred taxes and interest with a loss payable clause to the City of Decatur.
Section 6. - Accrual of interest.
(a)
The amount of taxes deferred pursuant to this Act shall accrue interest until paid at three-fourths of the rate specified in O.C.G.A. § 48-2-40.
(b)
Interest on taxes deferred pursuant to this Act in any year shall begin accruing on the date the taxes were due in that year.
Section 7. - Taxes and interest constitute prior lien.
The taxes and interest deferred pursuant to this Act shall constitute a prior lien and shall attach as of the date and in the same manner and shall be collected as are other liens for taxes, as provided for under Title 48 of the O.C.G.A., but the deferred taxes and interest shall only be due, payable, and delinquent as provided in this Act.
Section 8. - Annual notification of owner of outstanding taxes and interest.
Each year, at the time the tax bills are mailed, the city clerk shall notify each property owner to whom a homestead tax deferral has been previously granted of the accumulated sum of deferred taxes and interest outstanding.
Section 9. - Conditions upon which taxes and interest are due and payable.
(a)
In the event that there is a change in use of tax-deferred property so that the owner is no longer entitled to a homestead exemption for the property pursuant to Section 3 of this Act, or if the owner fails to maintain the required fire and extended insurance coverage, the total amount of deferred taxes and interest for all previous years shall be due and payable either on the date on which the change in use occurs or on the date failure to maintain insurance occurs.
(b)
In the event that there is a change in ownership of tax-deferred property, the total amount of deferred taxes and interest for all previous years shall be due and payable on the date the change in ownership occurs. When, however, the change in ownership is to a surviving spouse and the spouse is eligible for a homestead exemption on the property pursuant to a resolution adopted by the 1981 General Assembly, H.R. 142 (1981 Ga. Laws, page 1914) and subsequently ratified as an amendment to the Constitution of the State of Georgia in the general election in 1982, the surviving spouse may continue the deferral of previously deferred taxes and interest pursuant to this Act.
(c)
During any year in which the total amount of deferred taxes, interest, and all other unsatisfied liens on a homestead exceeds 85 percent of the fair market value of the homestead, the city clerk shall immediately notify the owner of the homestead that the portion of taxes and interest which exceeds 85 percent of the value of the homestead shall be due and payable within 30 days of receipt of the notice. Failure to pay the amount due shall cause the total amount of deferred taxes and interest also to become due and payable at the end of the 30 days.
(d)
Each year, upon notification, each owner of property on which taxes and interest have been deferred shall submit to the city clerk a list, and the current value, of all outstanding liens on the owner's homestead. Failure to respond to the notification within 30 days of its receipt shall cause the total amount of deferred taxes and interest to become due and payable at the end of the 30 days.
(e)
All deferred taxes which are made due and payable by this section shall be delinquent and subject to interest in accordance with Section 6 of this Act at the end of 120 days following the date the deferred taxes become due and payable.
Section 10. - Method of payment.
(a)
All or part of the deferred taxes and accrued interest may be paid at any time to the city clerk by:
(1)
The owner of the property or the spouse of the owner; or
(2)
The next of kin of the owner, heir of the owner, child of the owner, or any person having or claiming a legal or equitable interest in the property, provided that no objection is made by the owner within 30 days after the city clerk notifies the owner of the fact that such payment has been tendered. Any payment made under this paragraph shall be deposited in a special escrow account for the 30-day period; and the city clerk shall not make distribution of the payment while the funds are held in escrow.
(b)
Any partial payment made pursuant to this section shall be applied first to accrued interest. By resolution of the city governing authority, a minimum amount of partial payment which may be accepted in the city pursuant to this Act may be established.
Section 11. - Record of payment.
When any deferred taxes or interest is collected, the city clerk shall maintain a record of the payment, which record shall contain a description of the property and the amount of taxes or interest collected for the property. The city clerk shall distribute payments received to the local tax jurisdictions to whom the taxes and interest are owed.
Section 12. - Right of foreclosure.
If any holder of a deed to secure debt or any mortgagee elects to pay the taxes of an applicant who qualifies for and receives a tax deferral, such election shall not give the holder of the deed or the mortgagee the right to foreclose.
Section 13. - Collection of personal property taxes.
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to prevent the collection of personal property taxes which become a lien against tax-deferred property.
Section 14. - Penalties for filing false information.
(a)
The following penalties shall be imposed on any person who willfully files information required under Sections 3 and 9 which is incorrect:
(1)
The person shall pay the total amount of taxes and interest deferred, which amount shall immediately become due;
(2)
The person shall be disqualified from filing a homestead tax deferral application for the next three years; and
(3)
The person shall pay a penalty of 25 percent of the total amount of taxes and interest deferred.
(b)
Any person against whom the penalties prescribed in this section have been imposed may appeal the penalties imposed to the local governing authority within 30 days after the penalties are imposed.
ARTICLE IV. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4140 which provides an additional homestead exemption for certain elderly persons as defined in the act. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 94.

Section 1. - Definitions.
For purposes of this Act, the term:
(1)
"General law exemption" means that homestead exemption from independent school district ad valorem taxes granted by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-52 to persons 62 years of age or over.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
(3)
"Income" means income for purposes of computing net taxable income under O.C.G.A. § 48-7-1 et seq., relating to income taxes, including but not limited to any federal old-age, survivor, or disability insurance benefits or benefits received from any retirement or pension fund when such benefits are based on contributions made thereto by that resident or that resident's spouse or other family member residing at the homestead.
Section 2. - Granted to residents over 62 years of age.
Each resident of the City of Decatur, Georgia, who is 62 years of age or over is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of Decatur ad valorem taxes, including but not limited to ad valorem taxes of the independent school system of the City of Decatur, in the amount of $8,000.00 if the income of that resident, together with the income of the spouse of that resident and all members of the family of that resident who also reside at such homestead, does not exceed $12,000.00 for the immediately preceding taxable year. The value of the homestead in excess of the exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(1994 Ga. Laws, page 4411)
Section 2A. - Additional grant.
In addition to any other homestead exemption applicable to City of Decatur ad valorem taxes, including the homestead exemption provided for by Section 2 of this Act, each resident of said city who is 65 years of age or over is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from City of Decatur ad valorem taxes, except ad valorem taxes for the independent school system of said city, in the amount of $1,000.00. The additional exemption granted by this section shall be claimed, administered, and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1 but the governing authority of the City of Decatur may grant the exemption authorized by this section without further application to any resident of the City of Decatur who qualifies therefor as shown on the previously existing tax records of the City of Decatur. The additional homestead exemption granted by this section shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 4475)
Section 3. - Application forms for determining eligibility.
The governing authority of the City of Decatur or its designee shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this Act and shall require with the initial application an affidavit by the owner as to the age of the owner, and the income of the owner, owner's spouse, and each member of the owner's family residing on the homestead, and such other information as may be necessary to determine eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
Section 4. - Obligation of those exempted to notify authority of ineligibility.
Any person who, as of January 1, 1986, has applied for and is eligible for the general law exemption or that homestead exemption from City of Decatur ad valorem taxes for persons 65 years of age or over (1971 Ga. Laws, page 940), shall be eligible for the exemption granted by this Act without further application. Otherwise, the exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Act to notify the governing authority of the City of Decatur or its designee in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
Section 5. - Applicability to county school, state or other county taxes.
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to nor affect any county school taxes, state taxes, or county taxes for county purposes.
Section 6. - Additional to other exemptions.
The exemption granted by this Act shall be in addition to any other homestead exemption from City of Decatur ad valorem taxes.
Section 7. - Repeal of state constitutional amendment exemption.
That amendment to the Constitution which provides a $2,000.00 homestead exemption from City of Decatur ad valorem taxes to persons 65 years of age or over (1971 Ga. Laws, page 940) is repealed when the exemption granted by this Act becomes effective.
Section 8. - Application to certain taxable years.
The exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1994.
(1994 Ga. Laws, page 4411)
Section 9. - Granting and administration.
The exemption granted by this Act shall be administered and granted in the same manner as the general exemption; and, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Act, all provisions of general law which apply to the general exemption shall apply to the exemption granted by this Act.
