Chapter 14 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Charge imposed on each wireless enhanced 911 telecommunications connection.
A wireless enhanced 911 charge is hereby imposed upon each wireless telecommunications connection subscribed to by subscribers whose billing address is within the jurisdiction of the city at a rate per month per wireless connection provided to each telephone subscriber. The amount of the rate charged shall be the maximum allowed under state law.
(Res. No. 99-02, 6-14-1999)
Secs. 14-2—14-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CIVIL EMERGENCIES

Sec. 14-21. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions, other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters or the imminent threat thereof of man-made or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; protection against the effects of radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; plant protection; shelter; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out such functions.
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3 ("Emergency Management—Definitions"), shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this article. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this article, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
(Code 1994, § 26-26; Res. No. 91-4, § I, 10-14-1991)
Sec. 14-22. - Construction of article.
This article shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 1994, § 26-27; Res. No. 91-4, § VII, 10-14-1991)
Sec. 14-23. - Penalties.
Any person violating this article or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article shall, upon conviction, be punished for committing a misdemeanor as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1994, § 26-28; Res. No. 91-4, § VI, 10-14-1991)
Sec. 14-24. - Agency established; office of emergency management director.
(a)
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, the establishment of the county emergency management agency is acknowledged and approved.
(b)
The chairperson of the board of county commissioners, with concurrence of the mayors of cities within the county, shall nominate for appointment by the governor a director of emergency management for the entire county and participating cities located therein. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county and cities therein on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 14-21. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county and city emergency program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices (e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.).
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an undeclared emergency and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Code 1994, § 26-29; Res. No. 91-4, § II, 10-14-1991)
Sec. 14-25. - County emergency management agency.
(a)
The county emergency management department shall be established around existing county and city departments and agencies. The emergency functions listed in section 14-21 are assigned as set forth in the functional responsibility assignment, attachment C, of the county emergency operations plan and as attached to the resolution from which this article is derived.
(b)
Heads of departments listed are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned function, as listed in attachment C of the emergency operating plan reference in subsection (a) of this section. Such plans will be submitted through the emergency management director/coordinator to the county board of commissioners and city mayors for inclusion in the local emergency operations plan.
(Code 1994, § 26-30; Res. No. 91-4, § III, 10-14-1991)
Sec. 14-26. - Powers during emergency or disaster.
If a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency occurs which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county and participating cities, the chairperson of the county board of commissioners, jointly with the mayors of the affected cities or, in their absences, their legally appointed designees, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues the power to:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 1994, § 26-31; Res. No. 91-4, § IV, 10-14-1991)
Sec. 14-27. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities therein, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Code 1994, § 26-32; Res. No. 91-4, § V, 10-14-1991)
