THE CODE OF THE CITY OF LAKE CITY, GEORGIA
____________
Published in 2015 by Order of the Mayor and Council
Adopted May 11, 2015
____________
CITY OFFICIALS
____________
Willie Oswalt
Mayor
____________
Dwight Ginn
John Sowell
Bobby Williams
City Council
____________
Joel Lanken
City Manager
____________
Steve Fincher
City Attorney
____________
Eric Beckman
City Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a recodification of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of Lake City, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 1994 Code, as updated through Ord. No. 2014-2, adopted April 14, 2014, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the mayor and council. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 1994 Code, as updated, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
RELATED LAWS RL:1
SPECIAL ACTS SA:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE RLCT:1
SPECIAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE SACT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up to date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up to date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Jim Jenkins, Senior Code Attorney, and Beth Tattershall, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Mr. Joel Lanken, City Manager, and Mr. Eric Beckman, City Clerk, for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Lake City, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Lake City, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Lake City, Georgia. 2015.
ORDINANCE NO. 2015-01
An Ordinance Adopting and Enacting a New Code for the Code of Ordinances of Lake City, Georgia; Providing for the Repeal of Certain Ordinances Not Included Therein; Providing a Penalty for the Violation Thereof; Providing for the Manner of Amending Such Code; and Providing When Such Code and this Ordinance Shall Become Effective.
Whereas, the governing authority of the City of Lake City, Georgia (the "City") are the Mayor and Council thereof; and
Whereas, the City has determined that it is within the best interests of its citizenry to utilize the services of Municode to provide access to its Charter and Code of Ordinances; and
Whereas, the City has determined that taking such action will benefit the general welfare of its citizenry; and
Now therefore, be it and it is hereby ordained by the mayor and council of the City of Lake City, and by the authority thereof:
Section 1. The Code entitled the "Code of Ordinances of Lake City, Georgia," published by Municipal Code Corporation, consisting of chapters 1 through 42, each inclusive, is adopted.
Section 2. The adoption of provisions of the Code regarding zoning decisions complies with the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1. et seq.
Section 3. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before April 14, 2014, and not included in the Code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are repealed.
Section 4. The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 5. (a) It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Mayor and Council that all sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Ordinance are or were, upon their enactment, believed by the Mayor and Council to be fully valid, enforceable and constitutional.
(b)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Mayor and Council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, each and every section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance is severable from every other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance. It is hereby further declared to be the intention of the Mayor and Council that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, no section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance is mutually dependent upon any other section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance.
(c)
In the event that any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Ordinance shall, for any reason whatsoever, be declared invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, it is the express intent of the Mayor and Council that such invalidity, unconstitutionality or unenforceability shall, to the greatest extent allowed by law, not render invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Ordinance and that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, all remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Ordinance shall remain valid, constitutional, enforceable, and of full force and effect.
Section 6. Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the City to make the same a part of the Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code includes the additions and amendments.
Section 7 Ordinances adopted after April 14, 2014 that amend or refer to ordinances that have been codified in the Code shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 8 All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby expressly repealed.
Section 9 This ordinance shall become effective on the date of its adoption unless otherwise expressly stated herein.
Ordained this 11th day of May, 2015.
CITY OF LAKE CITY, GEORGIA         ATTEST:
Wille Oswalt                    Eric Beckman
Mayor                    City Clerk
