ARTICLE III. - LAND USE PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS[16]

Footnotes:
--- (16) ---
Editor's note— See editor's note Art. II.

Sec. 62-331. - Preamble and enactment clause.
For the purpose of insuring that due process is afforded to the general public when Gilmer County regulates the use of property through the exercise of land use powers, and pursuant to the authority and mandates of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983, Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV and Chapter Sixty-Six of Title Thirty-Six of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.), Gilmer County does hereby adopt, order, and enact into law this article.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 1(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-332. - Definitions.
When used in this article, the following terms shall have the definitions and meaning hereafter set forth:
Conditional use. A use approved within a land use district, generally considered compatible with the other uses allowed in the district, only after due consideration of objective criteria as applicable to the proposed conditional use.
Governing authority. The Gilmer County Board of Commissioners (a/k/a board of commissioners).
Land use decision. The final legislative action by Gilmer County Board of Commissioners, which results in Gilmer County's:
(1)
Adoption of a land use ordinance;
(2)
Adoption of an amendment to a land use ordinance which changes the text of the land use ordinance;
(3)
Adoption of an amendment to a land use ordinance which changes property from one and use district or another; or
(4)
Approval of a conditional use of property.
Land use districts. The power of Gilmer County, within its territorial boundaries for the districting of property for various uses and the prohibition of other or different uses within such land use districts and for the regulation of development and the improvement of real estate within such districts in accordance with the uses of property for which said land use districts were established.
Land use district ordinance. An ordinance for Gilmer County establishing procedures and land use districts within its territorial boundaries, which regulate the uses and development standards of property within such land use districts. The term also includes the land use district map (as hereinafter amended) adopted in conjunction with the Land Use Ordinance of Gilmer County, which shows the land use districts and the classifications of property therein.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 2(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-333. - Adoption.
At least one public hearing shall be held prior to the adoption of this article and/or the Land Use District Ordinance by the Gilmer County Board of Commissioners and such proceeding shall comply with section 62-38 regarding public hearings; section 62-39 regarding hearing notice; and section 62-45 regarding conduct of hearings.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 3(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-334. - Initiation of amendments.
This article and the Land Use District Ordinance of Gilmer County, Georgia may be amended from time to time subject to the following conditions:
A petition to amend this article, the land use ordinance, the land use intensity district map, or an application for a conditional use permit, may be initiated by the county board of commissioners, the county planning commission, or by any person, firm, or corporation owning property in the local jurisdiction. The property owner's permission is required before a petition for changing the land use intensity district map can be filed by anyone other than county board of commissioners or the county planning commission. Applications for amendment to the land use intensity district map, the land use ordinance, or the text of this article shall be accompanied by payment of a filing fee as established by county board of commissioners by resolution from time to time.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 4(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62.335. - Pre-application conference.
Prior to the filing of any application to amend the text of this article, the land use ordinance, the land use intensity district map, or any other application pursuant to this article, applicants are encouraged to schedule and attend a pre-application conference with the land development officer. The purpose of the pre-application conference is to provide applicants with the best available information regarding development proposals and processing requirements, and to ensure the availability of complete and accurate information for review of said application. Upon request of the applicant, the land development officer shall provide the applicant with a written summary of the pre-application conference and list any specific documents, information, or other information that must be submitted to satisfy application requirements.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 5(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-336. - Map amendment application requirements.
Each application for a map amendment or conditional use permit shall be accompanied by a legal description of the property and a survey plat of the property, a letter of intent describing the proposed use of the property, an application form supplied by the land development officer, a filing fee as specified from time to time by resolution of Gilmer County, and any other information as may be required by this article or as specified by the land development officer to evaluate compliance with this article.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 6(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-337. - Complete application.
Any application for action under this article must be complete before it shall be accepted for processing. Upon receipt of all application materials, the land development officer shall find the application complete and schedule it for hearing where required, and consideration.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 7(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-338. - Public hearing.
Within no more than 60 days after the filing of a complete application for which a hearing is required by this article, a public hearing shall be held on such applications before the appropriate body as required by and in accordance with this article, before taking action on a proposed application.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 8(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-339. - Public hearing notice.
For any proposed text amendment to this article, the land use ordinance, any application for a map amendment, and any application for a conditional use permit, a public notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the local jurisdiction at least 15 days but not more than 45 days prior to the scheduled public hearing. Such notice shall state the purpose, location, time and date of the public hearing, the location of the property involved in the application, and the nature of said application. For map amendments, the public notice shall specifically include the current use district classification of the property, the proposed use district classification of the property. For conditional use applications, the public notice shall specifically include the proposed use of the subject property and the current use district classification of the property.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 9(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-340. - Public notice sign on subject property.
Whenever a map amendment or an application for conditional use is proposed, the land development officer shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous place on said property one or more sign(s), the size of which may be prescribed by resolution of the county board of commissioners and each of which shall contain information as to the proposed change and the date, time and location of the public hearing before the public hearing body. For map amendments, the sign or signs shall specifically include the current use district classification of the property and the proposed use district classification of the property. For conditional use applications, the sign or signs shall specifically include the proposed use of the subject property and the current use district classification of the property. No public hearing shall take place until said sign or signs have been posted for at least 15 days in advance of the public hearing to which said notice applies. This section shall not apply if the map amendment or application for conditional use is initiated by the board of commissioners or the county planning commission.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 10(App. A), 4-14-2005; Res. No. 17-023, 3-9-2017)
Sec. 62-341. - Criteria to consider for map amendments.
In reviewing, recommending, and acting upon applications for land use intensity district map amendments, the land development officer, the county planning commission, and the county board of commissioners shall consider the following criteria for approval, conditional approval, or disapproval as appropriate:
(1)
Compatibility with adjacent uses and districts. Existing uses and use districts of surrounding and nearby properties, whether the proposed use district is suitable in light of such existing uses and use districts of surrounding and nearby properties, and whether the proposal will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby properties.
(2)
Property value. The existing value of the property contained in the petition under the existing use district classification, the extent to which the property value of the subject property is diminished by the existing use district classification, and whether the subject property has a reasonable economic use under the current use district.
(3)
Suitability. The suitability of the subject property under the existing use district classification, and the suitability of the subject property under proposed use district classification of the property.
(4)
Vacancy and marketing. The length of time the property has been vacant or unused as currently used under the current use district classification; and ant efforts taken by the property owner(s) to use the property or sell the property under the existing use district classification.
(5)
Evidence of need. The amount of undeveloped land in the general area affected which has the same use district classification as the map change requested. It shall be the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof that the proposed application promotes the public health, safety, morality or general welfare.
(6)
Public facilities impacts. Whether the proposal will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, schools, parks, or other public facilities and services.
(7)
Consistency with comprehensive plan. Whether the proposal is in conformity with the policy and intent of the locally adopted comprehensive plan.
(8)
Other conditions. Whether there are any other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property, which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the proposal.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 11(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-342. - Criteria to consider for conditional uses.
In reviewing, recommending, and acting upon applications for conditional uses, the land development officer, the planning commission and the county board of commissioners shall consider the following criteria for approval or disapproval as appropriate:
(1)
Access to the site is appropriate considering the anticipated volume of traffic resulting from the use.
(2)
The amount and location of open space and the provision of screening is such that buffering of incompatible uses is achieved.
(3)
Hours and manner of operation of the proposed use are not inconsistent with the adjacent of nearby uses.
(4)
Public facilities and utilities are capable of adequately serving the proposed use;
(5)
The proposed use will not have a significant adverse effect on the level of property values or the health, safety and general welfare and character of adjacent land uses or the general area;
(6)
The physical conditions of the site, including size, shape, topography and drainage, are suitable for the proposed development;
(7)
The proposed use is consistent with the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan;
(8)
Whether all pertinent and applicable requirements of this Code, and all applicable state and federal laws have been met;
(9)
Any other factors deemed relevant to the land development officer, planning commission, or the county board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 12(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-343. - Staff investigation and report.
The land development officer shall make an investigation of the application and shall prepare a report thereon, considering applicable criteria specified herein. Said investigation shall be submitted to the planning commission and the county board of commissioners, in cases where they have a role in the application as specified herein. Said investigation shall also be made available to the applicant prior to any public hearing scheduled on the matter or in cases where a public hearing is not required, within a reasonable time prior to action.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 13(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-344. - Planning commission and recommendation.
The county planning commission shall consider all applications to amend the text of this article, the land use ordinance, land use intensity district map, and applications for conditional use permits. It shall render a recommendation to the county board of commissioners on all such applications, and the planning commission's action and recommendation shall be advisory only. The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on all such specified applications and shall conduct its review in accordance with the procedures established herein. The planning commission may recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the application. The planning commission shall render a recommendation following the close of the public hearing or within 45 days after the public hearing on the application has been held. The land development officer shall notify the applicant in writing of the planning commission's action or recommendation within 30 days of the conclusion of the public hearing or within 30 days of its recommendation if not made at the public hearing.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 14(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-345. - Procedures for conducting public hearings.
This section establishes procedures, which shall, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, be applicable to the county board of commissioners, the county planning commission, (hereafter referred to as the "public hearing body") in the conduct of all public hearings. Public hearings as are herein required shall be governed by the following policies and procedures for conducting public hearing, and the public hearing body shall follow such policies and procedures for the conduct of public hearings, except in cases where it is prudent to dispense with formalities in such cases where due process of the applicant or interested parties will be unaffected. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the public hearing body from conducting the public hearing in an orderly and decorous manner to assure the public hearing on a proposed application is conducted in a fair and orderly manner. These rules shall be public record and shall be made available at the public hearing.
(1)
Call of hearing. The presiding officer of the public hearing body shall indicate that a public hearing has been called for the consideration of said applications. Thereupon, the public hearing body shall consider each application on an individual basis in the order of the published agenda or as otherwise called by the presiding officer.
(2)
Report by land development officer. The presiding officer shall call upon the land development officer or other appropriate staff to make a report, if any, concerning the proposed application. The land development officer or other appropriate staff shall then give report, if any, for said application.
(3)
Presentation by applicant. The presiding officer shall call on the applicant or applicant's agent who shall present and explain his application. It shall be the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof that the proposed application promotes the public health, safety, morality or general welfare.
(4)
Determination of interested parties. Following the applicant's presentation, the presiding officer may ask for a show of hands of those persons who wish to appear in support of/or, opposition to the petition. If it appears that the number of persons wishing to appear in support of/or opposition to the petition is in excess of that which may reasonably be heard, the presiding officer may request that a spokesperson for the group be chosen to make presentations. Proponents and opponents of each decision shall have at least ten minutes per side to present data, evidence and opinions on the proposed application.
(5)
Public testimony. Prior to speaking, each speaker will identify himself or herself and state his or her current address. Each speaker shall speak only to the merits or liabilities of the proposed application under consideration and shall address his or her remarks only to the public hearing body. Each speaker shall refrain from personal attacks on any other speaker or the discussion of facts or opinions irrelevant to the proposed application under consideration. The presiding officer may limit or refuse a speaker the right to continue, if the speaker, after first being cautioned, continues to violate these procedures.
(6)
Applicant's rebuttal. After public testimony, the applicant or applicant's agent shall be allowed a short opportunity for rebuttal and final comment.
(7)
Close of public hearing. After the above procedures have been completed, the presiding officer will indicate that the public hearing is formally closed, and the public hearing shall not be reopened except upon formal vote of the public hearing body; provided, however, that this provision shall not require the closure of a public hearing where at the discretion of the public hearing body the hearing should be continued at a later time or date.
(8)
Recess of hearing. The public hearing body, for any reason it deems necessary or desirable, may recess or continue a hearing. Upon recessing or continuing a hearing, the public hearing body shall announce the time, date and place when the hearing or hearings will be resumed and such public announcement shall be considered sufficient notice thereof to all persons.
(9)
Vote. After the public hearing is closed, the public hearing body may vote upon the proposed application. Prior to voting, the public hearing body shall consider evidence and public testimony presented at the public hearing, and the public hearing body shall apply the evidence to the applicable criteria specified in this code for said application. It will not be required that the public hearing body consider every criteria contained in this code, except for variances where all criteria for approving variances must be met. At such public hearings as herein required to be held by the Gilmer County Planning Commission, the planning commission at the conclusion of the public hearing, or within a specified time thereafter may by motion, send forth a recommendation for granting the application or a recommendation for denial of the application. If the planning commission determines from the evidence presented that the applicant has shown that the proposed application is consistent the applicable criteria for said application, then the application shall be granted an approval recommendation, and such approval may be subject to those reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the planning commission. The recommendation shall be forwarded to the county board of commissioners, within ten days after the official action has been taken place, for a final decision of approval or denial.
(10)
Final approval or denial of an application. Upon receipt of the recommendation from the county planning commission, the county board of commissioners shall have 45 days to render a final decision by approving or disapproving of the recommendation, by approving it with modifications or conditions, or by remanding the matter with instructions to the planning commission. Upon making this decision, the applicant shall be notified of the decision within 30 days of the date such decision is rendered.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 15(App. A), 4-14-2005; Res. No. 06-48, § 27, 3-8-2006)
Sec. 62-346. - Withdrawal of application.
Any petition for an amendment to the text of this article, the land use ordinance, the land use intensity district map, or for a conditional use permit may be withdrawn at any time prior to the public hearing on said application, by the person or entity initiating such a request, upon written notice to the land development officer. No filing fee for said application will be refunded by the county in the event of such withdrawal.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 16(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-347. - Limitations on new applications.
In a case where an applicant for text amendment to this article, the land use ordinance, application for map amendment, or application for conditional use is denied by the governing body, or in the case of a variance application that has been denied by the board of land use appeals, the same or substantially similar application shall not be eligible for resubmittal and reconsideration until a period of six months has elapsed from the date of said denial.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 17(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-348. - Distribution.
Copies of this land use procedures and standards ordinance, as amended, shall be printed and copies thereof made available for distribution to the general public in the offices of the Land Development Officer of Gilmer County, Georgia. Distribution to the general public shall be upon request of a member of the general public who shall be entitled to one copy. The office of the land development officer, Gilmer County, Georgia is authorized to print copies of this article and any amendments thereto from time to time for purpose of public information.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 18(App. A), 4-14-2005)
Sec. 62-349. - Legal status.
(a)
Separability. Should any section or provision of this article be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(b)
Repeal of conflicting resolutions and ordinances. All resolutions and ordinances and parts or resolutions and ordinances in conflict herewith are repealed.
(c)
Effective date. This article shall take effect and be enforced from and after its adoption, the public welfare of Gilmer County, Georgia requiring it.
(Res. No. 05-56, § 19(App. A), 4-14-2005)
