ARTICLE XIII. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 28-393. - Administration.
Except as otherwise provided in these regulations the zoning administrator shall administer, interpret, and enforce this chapter.
Sec. 28-394. - Permit procedure.
(a)
Permit requirements.
(1)
Development permit. A development permit shall be required for any proposed use of land, office or center in any commercial district providing shared parking, access, and service to three or more business establishments, or multifamily residential development before any improvements or grading of the land commences. Such development permits shall not be in lieu of building permits required for any structure within such developments.
(2)
Building permit. A building permit shall be required for any proposed use of lands or building to indicate and ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter before any construction or building commences.
(3)
Manufactured home location permit. A manufactured home location permit is required for any person to commence the excavation for or construction of a manufactured home stand or the placement of manufactured home on an individual lot within a manufactured home park.
(4)
Temporary certificates. The building official is authorized to issue a permit for temporary occupancy in addition to a permit for erection, alteration, moving, or repair of a structure provided the permit shall not exceed six months and shall include such conditions and safeguards as will protect the safety of the occupants and the public.
(b)
Permit application.
(1)
Development permit. An application for a development permit:
a.
Shall be made to the zoning administrator; and
b.
Shall be accompanied by complete plans in duplicate, signed by the author with his address, drawn to scale, showing:
1.
The actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
2.
The exact sizes and locations on the lot of the buildings and accessory buildings then existing;
3.
The lines within which the proposed building or structure shall be erected or altered;
4.
The proposed building or structure which shall be erected or altered;
5.
The existing or intended use of each building or part of a building;
6.
The number of families or housekeeping units the building is designed to accommodate; and
7.
Such other information with regard to the lot and neighboring lots as may be necessary to determine and provide for the enforcement of this chapter.
One copy of such plans shall be returned to the owner when such plans have been approved. Approval of a preliminary plat in accordance with all applicable provisions of the subdivision regulations and approval of site plans as required in article XVII: amendment and zoning procedures, shall constitute approval of the development permit for such subdivision or development.
(2)
Building permit. A building permit shall be required for any proposed use of lands or building to indicate and ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter.
(3)
Manufactured and mobile home location permit. Manufactured and mobile homes are subject to permitting requirements the same as building permits.
Sec. 28-395. - Issuance.
All permits issued shall in no case grant any permit for the use, construction, or alteration of any land or building if the land or building as proposed to be used, constructed, or altered would be in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any other codes and laws of the city or the state.
Sec. 28-396. - Duration of permit validity.
A development or building permit shall be valid for one year from its issuance subject to the following provisions:
(1)
If the construction work described in the building permit has not commenced within six months from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall be considered abandoned.
(2)
If the construction work described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire.
(3)
If the construction or work described in the building or development permit is suspended, or abandoned for a period of one year at any time after work is commenced, said permit shall expire.
(4)
Written notice of the expiration shall be given to the persons affected together with notice that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed until a new development or building permit has been obtained.
(5)
Where notice of an appeal to any decision is filed within the time provided in this chapter.
Sec. 28-397. - Certificate of occupancy.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or parts thereof hereafter created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued therefore by the building official.
(b)
A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the county building department and a copy shall be furnished, on request, to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
Sec. 28-398. - Fees.
All fees for zoning application and permit issuance imposed by this chapter are charges made in pursuance of the police power for the regulation and control of the development for the protection and welfare of the citizens of the city. Fees for sign and home occupation permits shall be established from time to time by resolution of the city council. All other permit fees shall be as established by the county. A copy of the fee schedule shall be maintained for public inspection in the office of the zoning administrator and/or city clerk.
Sec. 28-399. - Appeals from decisions of the zoning administrator.
It is the intention of this article that all questions arising in connection with the administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be presented to the board of appeals only on appeal from the decision of such official.
Sec. 28-400. - Minor variances.
Based on application requirements and criteria for variances set out in article XIV of this chapter, the zoning administrator may grant variances up to ten percent of set-back requirements in residentially zoned districts on lines which do not front on a major, collector or state road.
Secs. 28-401—28-430. - Reserved.
