Chapter 24 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Uniform rules of the road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.; powers of local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-370 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 24-1. - Obstruction of view and use by trees and shrubs; notice.
(a)
No person owning, occupying, or in anywise controlling property in this city shall permit any tree, bush, or shrub on the property to project over any street or sidewalk of this city so as to obstruct or interfere with the view and use of persons walking or riding in a vehicle on the street or sidewalk or of other persons or vehicles approaching from cross or intersecting streets.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether the owner, tenant, agent, or person controlling property in the city to fail to remove any tree, bush, or other obstruction from the streets or sidewalks of this city after ten days' notice by the city to do so.
(Code 1986, § 8-1-5)
Sec. 24-2. - Free flow of traffic; obstruction prohibited.
All persons are prohibited from engaging in driving procedures which obstruct the free flow of traffic in, around, over and through the streets, alleyways, and other public ways of the city. Any person is prohibited from stopping his vehicle (except at a stop signal or stop sign, or to honor another driver's right-of-way, or in an emergency situation) in a manner as to obstruct the free and orderly flow of traffic by the maneuver, or to engage in unduly slow driving procedures so as to obstruct the free flow of traffic or to needlessly circle the block or dawdle or make unnecessarily rapid accelerations and decelerations or to in any other manner constitute a traffic nuisance or hazard.
(Code 1986, § 8-2-1)
Sec. 24-3. - Motorized carts on public sidewalks prohibited.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Motorized means any vehicle gasoline powered.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to operate any motorized vehicle, motorized equipment, motorized scooters, motorized skateboards, motorized cycles, or any other similar vehicle on any public sidewalk.
Sec. 24-4. - All-terrain vehicles.
(a)
Definitions. The following words and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings as set out herein:
All-terrain vehicle (ATV) means a self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for operation over natural terrain and steered by wheels, to specifically include, but not be limited to, off-road motorcycles, three-wheelers, four-wheelers, and all other such vehicles with one or more wheels. The term "all-terrain vehicle (ATV)" is not intended to include bicycles or street legal vehicles operating on public road rights-of-way.
ATV trail means the property designated and posted for lawful, authorized use by ATVs.
Operate means to ride in or on and control the operation of an ATV.
Operator means every person who operates an ATV.
Owner means a person, other than a person with a security interest, having a right of use regarding, property interest in or title to an ATV and entitled to the use and possession of the vehicle.
Person includes an individual, partnership, corporation or other legal entity whether incorporated or not.
Public road right-of-way means the entire right-of-way of a public road, street or highway, including the traveled portions, banks, ditches, shoulders, and medians of a roadway that is not privately owned.
(b)
Unlawful operation. Unless otherwise noted, it is unlawful for any person to operate an ATV:
(1)
In a careless, reckless or negligent manner or heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as to endanger, or be likely to endanger, or cause injury or damage to any person or property.
(2)
So as to tow any person or thing on a public road right-of-way.
(3)
In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual and unreasonable noise so as to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities. Such sound that is plainly audible at a distance of 200 feet from the origin of sound shall be presumed to be a violation of this provision. Additionally, it shall be presumed to be a violation of this provision if an individual rides an ATV continuously past, around, or near an inhabited dwelling place so as to disturb or unduly annoy the inhabitants.
(4)
On private property without the express permission to do so by the owner and occupant of the property.
(5)
On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreational areas, golf courses, cemeteries, or any other public places, except on posted ATV trail locations, unless the operator has the express permission of the proper public authority.
(6)
On any portion of any public road right-of-way.
(c)
Age restrictions. No person shall operate an ATV in violation of the age requirements established by state law.
(d)
Organized events. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of ATVs in organized events, provided the event organization and property owner do not object to such use.
(e)
Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
(1)
Motorboats;
(2)
Any military, fire or law enforcement vehicle;
(3)
Any vehicles used exclusively on airports;
(4)
Any farm machinery, farm tractors, and other self-propelled equipment for harvesting and transporting forest products, for clearing land for planting, for utility services and maintenance, for earth moving, and for like activities; and
(5)
Self-propelled lawnmowers, snow blowers, garden or lawn tractors, or golf carts, while such vehicles are being used exclusively for their designed purposes and used in a location consistent with its designed purpose. However, golf carts when used as a means of logistical transport are not included within this exception.
(f)
Additional requirements. This subsection shall apply to the operation of ATVs that are otherwise operating in compliance with the ordinance from which this section derives:
(1)
No ATV shall enter any intersection without yielding the right-of-way to any vehicles or pedestrians at the intersection or so close to the intersection as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(2)
The operator of an ATV shall make every effort to be visible to oncoming traffic from any direction.
(g)
Citations. Any person violating the terms of this section shall be subject to issuance of a citation.
Sec. 24-5. - Engine brakes and compression brakes.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or cause to be used or operate within the city limits of Waleska any engine brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual or explosive noise from such vehicle.
(b)
This section shall not apply to fire protection equipment or other emergency vehicles.
(c)
Penalties for violation. Any person found to be in violation of any of the terms and provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00.
(d)
Validity. If any term or provision of this section shall be held to be unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable, the remainder thereof shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. of 10-17-2016)
Secs. 24-6—24-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to regulate or prohibit stopping, standing or parking, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(1); stopping, standing or parking, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-200 et seq.

Sec. 24-27. - Vehicles to be parked within marked spaces.
Whenever a space is marked off on any highway for the parking of an individual vehicle, every vehicle there parked shall be parked within the lines bounding that space.
(Code 1986, § 8-3-1)
Sec. 24-28. - Parking prohibited at all times in certain locations.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle or other vehicle to park the vehicle in any of the places on the streets and alleys of the city specifically designated by posted signs indicating the prohibited parking.
(Code 1986, § 8-3-2)
Sec. 24-29. - Parking prohibited certain days and hours in certain locations.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle or other vehicle to park the vehicle in any of the places on the days and between the hours indicated and specified by posted signs indicating the prohibited parking.
(Code 1986, § 8-3-3)
Sec. 24-30. - Parking time limited in certain locations, certain days and hours.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle or other vehicle to park the vehicle or allow the vehicle to remain parked in any of the places on the streets and alleys of the city, at any time on the days and between the hours indicated and specified by posted signs limiting parking time in certain locations on certain days and hours.
(Code 1986, § 8-3-4)
Sec. 24-31. - Special purpose parking zones established; parking otherwise prohibited.
It is unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle or other vehicle to park the vehicle or allow the vehicle to remain parked in any locations on the streets and alleys of the city established and designated as special purpose parking zones indicated and specified by posted signs approved by the council.
(Code 1986, § 8-3-5)
Sec. 24-32. - Parking regulations upon city property.
(a)
Parking. It shall be unlawful to park upon any city property inclusive of any and all parking lots and other areas designated by city council as no parking or reserved for specific uses. Any person and/or vehicle illegally parked in said spaces as so designated shall have said vehicle subject to being towed to a lot designated by the city council.
(b)
Signage. Authorized agents of the city shall erect appropriate signage prohibiting parking and/or informing the public of the person removing and storing any such vehicle and information as to where the vehicle or trespassing personal property can be recovered.
