ARTICLE VI. - ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES

Sec. 28-126. - Division of districts.
In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into the following districts:
EXPAND
R-80 Estate Residential District
R-40 Single-Family Residential District
R-30 Single-Family Residential District
OI Office/Institutional District
NC Neighborhood Commercial District
GC-LU General Commercial District—Limited Use
  Sec. 28-127. - Zoning district map adopted by reference.
The boundaries of zoning district are shown on the map designated as the zoning district map. The zoning district map and all notations, references, and other information shown thereon are a part of this chapter and have the same force and effect as if the zoning district map and all the notations, references, and other information shown thereon were fully set forth and described herein, which zoning district map is properly attested and is on file with the city clerk or county clerk or otherwise safeguarded by the city or county. Where the zoning district map is not available upon adoption of this chapter, or has not been fully amended to reflect the new zoning designations, the current zoning pursuant to the 1995 ordinance, as amended, shall remain in effect and the zoning regulations for the nearest equivalent of that zoning to the districts set out herein shall apply. Interpretations of the zoning designations shall be by the zoning board of appeals.
Zoning Equivalent to 1995 Ordinance Provisions
EXPAND
Current Ordinance 1995 Ordinance as amended
R-80 RE
R-40 R-1A & R-1 (one acre)
R-30 None
OI None
NC CN
GC-LU CG
  Sec. 28-128. - District boundaries.
All streets, alleys, and railroad rights-of-way; if not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets and railroad rights-of-way. Where the centerline of a street, alley or railroad right-of-way serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such areas, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting property up to such centerline. In all other cases, the district boundary lines shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the zoning district map. Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary line of any use district as shown on the zoning map incorporated herein, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Where district boundary lines are indicated as approximately following lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(2)
Whereas a lot held in one ownership and of record, at the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, is divided by a district boundary line, said lot shall remain presently zoned and unaffected by said division.
Secs. 28-129—28-153. - Reserved.
