ARTICLE XI. - OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS

Sec. 28-321. - By use.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, when any building or structure is hereafter erected or structurally altered, or any building or structure hereafter erected is converted for the uses listed in this article parking shall be provided as indicated in the following tables. The inclusion of a use in the table below does not mean that the use is a permitted use under this chapter.
EXPAND
Type of Use Parking Requirements
Agricultural produce stands 3 spaces per stand
Ambulance services 1 space per employee; 1 space per ambulance parked on site
Ambulance services, if accessory to hospitals or funeral homes 1 space per ambulance parked on site
Amphitheaters 1 space per 4 seats in amphitheater
Amusement centers 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. (gross) of site area, with a minimum of 25 spaces assigned and a minimum of 100 spaces
Ancillary retail sales Number of spaces required for the primary use
Animal hospitals 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Appliance repair (major) 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per loading dock
Assembly halls 1 space per 3 seats for every person lawfully permitted within the assembly hall at one time
Athletic and health clubs 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (accessory use) 1 space per employee; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Automobile, truck, and trailer lease and rental facilities (principal use) 1 space per employee; 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Automotive and truck sales and service facilities 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Automotive paint and body repair shops 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Automotive parking lots or garages As may be required to serve the principal use (see specific principal use for requirement); for freestanding parking garage not applicable
Automotive repair establishment 3 spaces per bay; 1 space per employee
Automotive storage yards and wrecker services 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee, with a minimum of 5 spaces
Automotive upholstery shops 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee
Bank/financial institutions with drive-in establishments and/or automated transfer 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 3 additional spaces per automated transfer machine; 5 queue machine spaces per drive in teller
Billiards and pool halls 2 spaces per pool table
Boat sales and service facilities 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee; 1 space per boat parked on site
Breeding and boarding kennels 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee
Bus stations for freight 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per loading dock
Carwashes 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 0.5 queue spaces per service line
Cemeteries 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and other principal places of worship 1 space per 4 seats in the places of worship provided that number of spaces thus required may be reduced by not more than 50 percent, if the place of worship is located within 500 feet of any public parking lot or any commercial parking lot where sufficient spaces are available by permission of the owners without charge, during the time of services to make up the additional spaces required
Clinics 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Clubs or lodges, noncommercial 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Coliseums, stadiums and convention centers (privately owned) 1 space per 3 seats for every person lawfully permitted within the coliseum or stadium at one time; plus 1 space per employee
Colleges and universities (private), including but not limited to research training facilities 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. of site area
Commercial greenhouses and plant nurseries 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee
Commercial indoor recreation uses 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Community fairs 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. of site area
Community retail uses 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Composting plants 1 space per employee; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Contractors (general, heavy, special) 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Convenience food stores with self-service fuel sales Minimum of 5 spaces; 1 space per employee
Corporate or administrative offices with any permitted uses 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Cultural facilities 1 space per 400 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Customary home occupations See article VIII of this chapter
Designated recycling collection locations Minimum of 10 spaces
Eating and drinking establishments (including drive-in fast food restaurants) 1 space per 100 sq. ft. of floorspace
Electrical supply stores 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per loading dock
Exterminating facilities (insect and/or rodent) 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Farm and garden supply stores 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floor space; 1 space per loading dock
Film developing and printing establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Flea markets 1 space per 500 sq. ft. of site area
Fraternity and sorority houses/residence halls 1.5 spaces per bedroom; 1 space per employee
Freight terminals 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Fuel and ice dealers 1 space per employee; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Full service gasoline stations 3 spaces per bay; 1 space per employee
Funeral homes 1 space per 4 seats in assembly room; 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Golf courses: public and private 5 spaces per hole; 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Group homes 1 space per 2 residents
High-rise apartments 1.75 spaces per dwelling unit
Hospitals 1 space per 2 beds
Hotels 1.25 spaces per unit
Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 2 queue spaces for each drive-in window
Linen and diaper services 1 space per employee; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Manufactured home sales 1 space per 500 sq. ft. of site area
Mausoleums 1 space per employee
Medical and dental laboratories 1 space per employee
Motorcycle, all-terrain vehicles (ATV), and three-wheel vehicles sales and service facilities 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Multifamily dwelling units 1.75 spaces per dwelling unit
Neighborhood retail uses 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Newspaper publishing facilities 1 space per employee; 1 space per vehicle parked on site; 1 space per loading dock
Nonautomotive repair service establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per vehicle parked on site
Nonprofit riding stables 1 space per employee; 1 space per stable
Nursery schools and child day care centers Minimum of 20 spaces
Offices not elsewhere classified 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Office service and supply establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee
Other consumer goods and services 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Other facilities for disposal of the deceased 1 space per employee
Other service establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Outdoor golf driving ranges 1.5 spaces per tee; 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floor space for pro shop/clubhouse
Pawnshops 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Photography studios 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Plumbing and/or heating equipment dealers 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Printing, publishing, and lithography establishments 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floor space; 1 space per employee
Private community centers 1 space per every person lawfully permitted within the assembly area at one time; plus 1 space per employee. In the absence of designated assembly area; 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Private parks 1 space per 3,000 sq. ft. of site area
Private schools of general and special education 2 spaces per classroom; 1 space per employee
Pro shops (accessory to driving ranges/golf courses) 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Professional offices 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Radio and television stations 1 space per 285 sq. ft. (net) of floor space; 1 space per employee
Radio, television, and other communication towers and antennae N/A
Recreational grounds other than tennis courts and golf area courses 1 space per 10,000 sq. ft. of site
Recycling drop-off centers Minimum of 10 spaces
Research and development centers 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee
Research testing laboratories 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee
Rest/personal care/convalescent homes 1 space per 4 beds
Self-service laundry facilities 1 space per 200 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Self-service storage facilities Minimum of 5 spaces
Signs and outdoor advertising facilities 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee
Single-family dwelling units (detached) 2 spaces per dwelling unit
Studios and supplies 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Theaters 1 space per 100 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Two-family dwelling units 4 spaces per dwelling unit (duplex)
Upholstery and furniture repair establishments 1 space per 250 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee
Utility facilities (private) 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per employee
Vending machine sales, service, rental, or repair establishments 1 space per 500 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per loading dock
Vocational schools (commercial) 1 space per 2,000 sq. ft. of site area
Wholesale sales offices 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace
Wholesale trade offices in conjunction with offices showrooms 1 space per 300 sq. ft. (net) of floorspace; 1 space per loading dock
  Sec. 28-322. - Interpretation of parking requirements chart.
(a)
The use regulations for each district are not affected by arrangement of uses in the chart.
(b)
The parking requirements in the chart are in addition to space for storage of trucks or other vehicles used in connection with any use.
(c)
The parking requirements in the chart do not limit other parking requirements contained in the district regulations.
(d)
Floor area, as used in Table 28-325, shall be defined in article IV of this chapter.
(e)
Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall be construed to be the next highest whole number.
(f)
Except as otherwise provided, the number of employees shall be compiled on the basis of the maximum number of persons employed on the premises at one time on an average day or average night, whichever is greater. Seasonal variations in employment may be recognized in determining an average day.
(g)
The parking space requirements for a use not specifically listed in the chart shall be the same as for a listed use of similar characteristics of parking demand generation.
(h)
In the case of mixed uses, or uses with different parking requirements occupying the same building or premises, or in the case of joint use of a building or premises by more than one use having the same parking requirements, the parking spaces required shall equal the sum of the requirements of the various uses computed separately.
(i)
Whenever a building or use is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity, or otherwise, to create a need under the requirements of this article for an increase in parking spaces of ten percent or more than those required before the change or enlargement such additional spaces shall be provided on the basis of change or enlargement. No additional spaces shall be required for the first change or enlargement which would result in an increase of spaces of less than ten percent of those required before the change or enlargement, but this exception shall not apply to a series of changes or enlargements which together result in a need for an increase in parking spaces of ten percent or more.
Sec. 28-323. - Joint use and off-site facilities.
(a)
All parking spaces required herein shall be located on the same lot with the building or use served except that where an increase in the number of spaces is required by a change or enlargement of use or where such spaces are provided collectively or used jointly by two or more buildings or establishments, the required spaces may be located and maintained at a distance not to exceed 300 feet from an institutional building or other nonresidential building served.
(b)
Up to 50 percent of the parking spaces required for:
(1)
Theaters;
(2)
Public auditoriums;
(3)
Bowling alleys;
(4)
Dancehalls; and
(5)
Nightclubs;
and up to 100 percent of the parking spaces required for a church auditorium may be provided and used jointly by banks, offices, retail stores, repair shops, service establishments and similar uses not normally open, used, or operated during the same hours as those listed in subsection (b)(1) through (5) of this section, and up to 100 percent of parking spaces required for schools may be provided and used jointly by a church auditorium; provided a written agreement thereto is properly executed and recorded as specified in subsection (c) of this section.
(c)
In any case where the required parking spaces are not located on the same lot with the building or use served or where such spaces are collectively or jointly provided and used, such parking spaces shall be established by a recorded covenant or agreement as to parking spaces to be used in conjunction with the principal use, and shall be reserved as such through an encumbrance on the title of the property to be designated as required parking space. Such encumbrance is to be valid for the total period of the use for which the parking is needed is in existence. A certificate of recording of the covenant or agreement shall be furnished to the zoning administrator.
Sec. 28-324. - Design standards.
(a)
Minimum area. For the purpose of these regulations, an off-street parking space is an all-weather surfaced area not in a street or alley and having an area of not less than 200 square feet, temporary, and a paved driveway which affords ingress and egress for an automobile without requiring another automobile to be moved.
(b)
Drainage and maintenance. Off-street parking facilities shall be drained to eliminate standing water and prevent damage to abutting property and/or public streets and alleys, and surfaced with erosion-resistant material in accordance with applicable town specifications. Off-street parking areas shall be maintained in a clean, orderly, and dust-free condition at the expense of the owner or lessee and not used for the sale, repair, dismantling, or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials, or supplies.
(c)
Separation from walkways and streets. Off-street parking spaces shall be separated from walkways, sidewalks, streets or alleys by a wall, fence, curbing or other approved protective device, or by distance so that vehicles cannot protrude over publicly owned areas.
(d)
Entrances and exits. Location and design of entrances and exits shall be in accord with the applicable requirements of county and city regulations and standards. All entrances and exits from or to any state highway shall be approved by the state department of transportation prior to construction. Landscaping, curbing, or approved barriers shall be provided along lot boundaries to control entrance and exit of vehicles or pedestrians.
(e)
Interior drives. Interior drives shall be of adequate width to serve the particular design arrangement of parking spaces.
(f)
Marking. Parking spaces in lots of more than ten spaces shall be marked by painted lines, curbs or other means to indicate individual spaces. Signs or markers shall be used as necessary to ensure efficient traffic operation of the lot.
(g)
Lighting. Adequate lighting shall be provided if off-street parking spaces are to be used at night. The lighting shall be arranged and installed to minimize glare on property in any residential district.
(h)
Screening. When off-street parking areas for ten or more automobiles are located closer than 50 feet to a lot in a residential district, or to any lot upon which there is a dwelling as a permitted use under these regulations, and where such parking areas are not entirely screened visually from such lot by an intervening building or structure, there shall be provided a continuous, visual screen with a minimum height of six feet. Such screen may consist of a compact evergreen hedge or foliage screening or louvered wall or fence.
Sec. 28-325. - Off-street loading requirements by use.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, when any building or structure is hereafter erected or structurally altered to the extent of increasing the floor area by 25 percent or more, or any building is hereafter converted, for the uses listed in Table 28-325:
Table 28-325. Minimum Off-Street Loading Requirements
EXPAND
Use or Use Category Floor Area as Defined Loading Spaces Required
Retail store, department store, restaurant, wholesale house, warehouse or general service establishment 2,000—10,000 1
10,000—20,000 2
20,000—40,000 3
40,000—60,000 4
Each 50,000 over 60,000 1 additional
Apartment building, motel, offices or office building, hospital or similar institutions or places of public assembly 5,000—10,000 1
10,000—100,000 2
100,000—200,000 3
Each 100,000 over 200,000 1 additional
Funeral home or mortuary 2,500—4,000 1
4,000—6,000 2
Each 10,000 over 6,000 1 additional
  (b)
Interpretation of the chart.
(1)
The loading space requirements apply to all districts but do not limit the special requirements which may be imposed in the district regulations.
(2)
Under the provisions of article XIV of this chapter the board of appeals may waive or reduce the loading space requirements whenever the character of the use is such as to make unnecessary the full provisions of loading facilities, where provision is made for community loading facilities or where provision of loading space for uses which contain less than 10,000 square feet of floor area.
(c)
Mixed uses in one building. Where a building is used for more than one use or for different uses, and where the floor area used for each use for which loading spaces is required is below the minimum for required loading spaces but the aggregate floor area used is greater than such minimum, then off-street loading space shall be provided as if the entire building were used for that use in the building for which the most spaces are required. In such cases, the zoning administrator or his designee may make reasonable requirements for the location of required loading spaces.
(d)
Design standards.
(1)
Minimum size. For the purpose of these regulations, a loading space is a space within the main building or on the same lot, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks, having minimum area of 608 square feet, minimum width of 35 feet, a minimum depth of 45 feet and a vertical clearance of at least 14.5 feet.
(2)
Loading space for funeral homes. Loading spaces for a funeral home may be reduced in size to ten by 25 feet and vertical clearance reduced to eight feet for all but one space when multiple spaces are provided.
(3)
Drainage and maintenance. Off-street loading facilities shall be drained to eliminate standing water and prevent damage to abutting property and/or public streets and alleys, and surfaced with erosion-resistant material in accordance with applicable town specifications. Off-street loading areas shall be maintained in a clean, orderly and dust-free condition at the expense of the owner or lessee and not used for the sale, repair, dismantling or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials or supplies.
(4)
Entrances and exits. Location and design of entrances and exits shall be in accord with applicable requirements of town traffic regulations and standards. Where the entrance or exit of a building is designed for truck loading and unloading, such entrance or exit shall be designed to provide at least one off-street loading space.
Secs. 28-326—28-353. - Reserved.
