ARTICLE V. - PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[3]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-144. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Itinerant merchant means any person, regardless of whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, and regardless of whether a resident of the county, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares, and merchandise within the county, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, or public room in any hotel, lodginghouse, apartment, or shop within the county for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, and merchandise, either privately or at public auction.
Peddler means any person, regardless of whether a resident of this county, traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying, or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden produce, farm products, or provisions who offers and exposes the same for sale, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance.
Secs. 10-145—10-171. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS

Sec. 10-172. - Required.
Each peddler and itinerant merchant who does business within the unincorporated areas of the county shall be required to obtain a permit from the county clerk in the manner specified in this chapter. No permit shall be issued without the approval of the chairperson of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 10-173. - Exemptions.
This division shall not be applicable to traveling salesman, to nonresident merchants, to newsboys, to bona fide merchants who merely deliver goods in the regular course of business, or to bona fide charitable, religious, or philanthropic organizations.
Sec. 10-174. - Application.
Application for a permit under this division shall be made to the county clerk's office, on a form provided by the clerk, and shall include, but not by way of limitation, the following information:
(1)
The fingerprints of the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business, or in lieu thereof at least three letters of recommendation from reliable property owners in the county in which the business is to be conducted, certifying as to the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or other evidence which establishes the good character and business responsibility of such person to the satisfaction of the chairperson of the board of commissioners;
(2)
The place in the county where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that the business shall be conducted;
(3)
The place, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant, where applicant within the six months next preceding the date of the application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which such business was conducted;
(4)
A statement of the nature, character, and quality of the goods, wares, or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the county; the invoice value and quality of such goods, wares, and merchandise; where the goods or property to be sold are manufactured or produced and where the goods or products are located at the time the application is filed;
(5)
A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by the county clerk, copies of all the advertising whether by handbills, circulars, newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to the application; and
(6)
A statement of whether the person having the management or supervision of the applicant's business has been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor, or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense, and the punishment assessed therefor.
Sec. 10-175. - Bond.
modified
(a)
Transient or itinerant businesses. Before any permit shall be issued for engaging in a transient or itinerant business as provided in this division, the applicant for such permit shall file with the county clerk a bond running to the county in the amount established by resolution of the board of commissioners, executed by the applicant, as principal, and two sureties upon which service of process may be made in the state.
(b)
Compliance to provisions of division. The bond shall be approved by the county attorney, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all of the provisions of this Code and the ordinances of this county and the statutes of this state regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any person for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person transacting such business with such applicant, whether the misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents, or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods, wares, and merchandise sold or any part thereof.
(c)
Sureties. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the county to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the county attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
Sec. 10-176. - Registered agent for service of process.
(a)
Before any permit as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in business as a peddler or itinerant merchant in this municipality, the applicant shall file with the county clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the county clerk his true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted under the permit and the bond, or for the performance of the conditions of the bond, or for any breach thereof.
(b)
The instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that the applicant for the permit consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made upon the agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the person applying for the permit, according to the law of this or any other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such acknowledgment of service or manner of service.
(c)
Immediately upon service of process upon the county clerk, as herein provided, the county clerk shall send to the permit at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of the process.
Sec. 10-177. - Fee.
The business permit fee for each peddler and itinerant merchant doing business in the county shall be in the sum established by resolution of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 10-178. - Duty to exhibit required.
All persons obtaining a permit under the provisions of this division shall be required to exhibit the permit at the request of any citizen or any law enforcement officer.
Sec. 10-179. - Noise restrictions.
No permit under this division, nor anyone in his behalf, shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any other sound device including any loudspeaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the county or upon any private premises in the county where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks, or other public places for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise that the permit proposes to sell.
Secs. 10-180—10-196. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CHARITABLE SOLICITORS

Sec. 10-197. - Registration required.
Any person who wishes to solicit donations or contributions for, or to sell any insignia or novelty on the streets of the county on behalf of, or under the sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization shall be required to register such solicitation or sale with the county sheriff at lease 48 hours in advance of such event and to obtain a permit therefor.
Sec. 10-198. - Application for registration.
The registration required by this division shall be in writing, shall be signed by the chief officer of the club or organization, and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name and object of the charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale to which the registration relates;
(2)
The day on which the solicitation or sale will take place;
(3)
The object for which the funds to be derived from the solicitation or sale will be utilized; and
(4)
The name and address of the chief officer of the club or organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale.
Sec. 10-199. - Exemptions.
This division shall not apply to any locally established organization or church operated exclusively for charitable or religious purposes if the solicitations are in the form of collections or contributions at the regular assemblies of any such organization or church.
Sec. 10-200. - Duty to exhibit registration.
Charitable solicitors shall be required to exhibit their registration at the request of any citizen.
Sec. 10-201. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to execute an application for registration that contains any false statement, and it shall be unlawful for any person to solicit donations or contributions or sell any insignia or novelty on the streets of the county purportedly in behalf of, or under the sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization that does not in fact exist.
Sec. 10-202. - Solicitation on the highways.
(a)
Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 40-6-97, the board of commissioners declares it permissible at certain times and under certain circumstances for charitable organizations registered in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 43-17-5 and to charitable organizations exempt from such state registration to solicit contributions on the streets and highways within unincorporated areas of the county.
(b)
Any charitable organization desiring to solicit contributions in accordance with this section shall file an application for permit as provided herein and submit proper evidence of its state registration or exemption, and otherwise comply with provisions of this section together with all other rules and regulations pertaining to or governing such solicitation activity.
(c)
Any permit issued pursuant to this section may include restrictions with regard to areas that may be targeted for solicitation if restrictions are necessary or desirable for the protection of public health and safety.
Secs. 10-203—10-227. - Reserved.
