ARTICLE II. - BUSINESS REGISTRATION[1]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— County authority to impose regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-8(a).

Sec. 10-25. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business means all businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations, with the exception of:
(1)
Any disabled veteran of any war or armed conflict in which any branch of the armed forces of the United States engaged, whether under United States command or otherwise;
(2)
Any blind person;
(3)
Any veteran of peace-time service in the United States armed forces who has a physical disability incurred during the period of such service;
(4)
Practitioners of professions and occupations listed in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c).
(Ord. No. 30-100-01, § 3, 10-25-1994; Ord. No. 30-100, 11-10-2006)
State Law reference— Exclusion of certain veterans and blind persons from county regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1.
Sec. 10-26. - Annual registration required.
All businesses doing business in the unincorporated part of the county shall register annually with the county clerk. Registrations hereunder shall expire on December 31 of each year.
Sec. 10-27. - New businesses; no prorating of fees.
New businesses must register as provided herein prior to conducting any business in the unincorporated part of the county. New businesses may register at any time during the year; provided; however, that the initial license shall expire on December 31 as provided herein. There shall be no prorating of annual registration fees for business registration issued for less than one year.
Sec. 10-28. - Registration form; fees.
(a)
Each business required to register pursuant to this article shall annually complete the registration form provided by the county clerk and pay the business registration fee established by resolution of the board of commissioners. The registration fee shall be uniform and shall not distinguish between businesses having a business location in the county from those that do not.
(b)
The business registration of each business operated in the unincorporated area of the county shall identify the line or lines of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the county and that line of business being noted by the county upon the business registration form that is to be displayed by the business owner.
(c)
The business registration fee is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the administrative fee provided herein for those businesses who are subject to county occupation taxes.
(Ord. No. 30-100-01, § 11, 10-25-1994)
Sec. 10-29. - Display of registration.
Any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, business tax registration shall be shown to any authorized county official or to any law enforcement officer of the county upon request.
Sec. 10-30. - Delinquency; penalties.
(a)
In the event a business fails to renew its business regulation prior January 1, or if a new business fails to register as required hereunder prior to conducting business in the unincorporated areas of the county, the business shall be prohibited from conducting business in the unincorporated areas of the county until such time as a properly completed and executed registration form is submitted to the county clerk, together with the annual registration fee and applicable penalties are paid in full. This subsection shall not apply in those instances where the county is prohibited by state law from prohibiting the conduct of the business, however, any business so exempted shall nevertheless be subject to all monetary penalties and punishment for violation of this article as provided herein.
(b)
Each delinquent registration or renewal shall be subject to delinquency penalties. If the registration or renewal is 30 days or less delinquent, the penalty shall be one-half the annual fee. If the registration or renewal is between 31 and 60 days delinquent, the penalty shall be equal to the annual registration fee. If the registration or renewal is 60 or more days delinquent, the penalty shall be two times the annual registration fee.
State Law reference— Authority for imposition of punishment for failure to comply with regulatory fee ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-8.
Sec. 10-31. - Effect of conduct business without registration; additional penalties.
In addition to the delinquency penalties provided in this article, any business, and all officers and agents soliciting for or representing any business, conducting business within the unincorporated areas of the county without the registration required in this article shall be subject to penalties as provided in section 1-9.
Sec. 10-32. - Certain businesses subject to additional requirements.
In addition to the other requirements of this article the following businesses shall meet the listed additional requirement as a prerequisite to registration under this article:
EXPAND
Ambulance service State license required
Auctioneer State license required
Auto parts (used or reconditioned) State license required
Auto salvage yard State license required
Automobile dealer State license required
Barbershop State license required
Beauty shop State license required
Bondsman Sheriff's approval
Burglar alarm installation Low-voltage state license, and notify sheriff's department
Carnivals or amusement rides Proof of liability insurance and sheriff's approval
Catering (including trucks) Health department approval
Chemical manufacturing or sales Fire department approval
Day care center License required from state department of human resources
Delicatessen Health and fire department approval
Door to door salesman Sheriff's department approval
Employment agency License from state department of labor if fee paid by employee
Explosives, sales/distribution License from state fire marshal
Fire alarm installation Notify fire department
Guns, firearms, ammunition State and federal license required
Hatchery License required from state department of agriculture
Ice cream shops Health department approval required
Locksmith Sheriff's department approval
Lodginghouses and roominghouses Certificate from state department of human resources required
Meat packing plant License required from state department of agriculture
Meats/retail from truck License required from state department of agriculture
Meats/wholesale License required from state department of agriculture
Nursing home, including convalescent home Certificate from state department of human resources
Pawnbrokers Sheriff's department approval
Peddler Sheriff's department approval
Pest control State license required
Polygraph examiner State license required
Private detective or investigator State license required
Professionals State license required
Restaurants Approval of health and fire departments
Sanitoriums Certificate from state department of human resources
Shooting gallery Fire and sheriff's department approval
Skating rinks Fire department approval
Spas Proof of $20,000.00 bond or letter of exemption from state department of consumer affairs
Tattoo shop Permit from county board of health required
  (Ord. No. 30-100-01, § 8, 10-25-1994)
Secs. 10-33—10-52. - Reserved.
