ARTICLE VII. - GROSS PREMIUMS TAX ON INSURERS

Sec. 10-335. - Enforcement; penalty for violation of article.
(a)
The business registration fees and gross premiums taxes levied by this article and provided for by O.C.G.A. §§ 33-8-8, 33-8-8.1 and 33-8-8.2 may be enforced and executed in the same manner as other taxes of the county. A violation of this article is grounds for refusing or revoking the business registration of the violator.
(b)
The business registration required by the provisions of this article shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, all of which as applicable shall apply to the insurers subject to this article.
Sec. 10-336. - Insurer business registration fees.
modified
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Insurer means a company that is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(b)
Fees imposed. Annual business registration fees are levied upon each insurer doing business in the unincorporated areas of the county and for each separate business location in excess of one not covered by subsection (c) of this section that is operating on behalf of insurers within the county in the amounts established by resolution of the board of commissioners.
(c)
Insuring risk at additional business locations. For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a business registration fee pursuant to this section, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with the loans or sales, offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a registered agent of an insurer for insurance, the insurer shall pay an additional annual business registration fee in the amount established by resolution of the board of commissioners.
(d)
Independent agencies and brokers. There is hereby levied an annual business registration fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company business registration fee imposed by subsection (b) of this section in the amount for each location within the county as established by resolution of the board of commissioners.
State Law reference— Authority for above business registration fee, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
Sec. 10-337. - Life insurers.
modified
(a)
Annual business registration fee. There is hereby levied an annual business registration fee upon each life insurer doing business within the county in the amount established by resolution of the board of commissioners. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by subsection (b) of this section that is operating on behalf of the insurers within the county, there is hereby levied a business registration fee in the amount established by resolution of the board of commissioners. For the purposes of this section, the term "insurer" means a company that is authorized to transact business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1).
(b)
Insuring risks at additional business locations. For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a business registration fee, pursuant to this section, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with the loans or sales, offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a registered agent of a life insurer for life insurance, the insurer shall pay an additional annual business registration fee per location in the amount established by resolution of the board of commissioners.
(c)
Independent agencies and brokers. There is hereby levied an annual business registration fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which a life insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company business registration fee imposed by subsection (a) of this section, in the amount for each the location within the county established by resolution of the board of commissioners.
State Law reference— Authority for above business registration fee, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
Sec. 10-338. - Tax levied—Life insurers.
There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the county in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premiums tax levied by this section is in addition to all other business registration fees imposed. This section does not apply to annuity considerations.
State Law reference— Authority for above tax, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1.
Sec. 10-339. - Same—Other insurers.
There is hereby levied an annual tax upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1) doing business within the county in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a).
State Law reference— Authority for above tax, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2.
Secs. 10-340—10-349. - Reserved.
new
