Chapter 26 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; city council, § 2-31 et seq.; courts, ch. 30.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible; to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Police services;
(3)
Medical and health services;
(4)
Rescue;
(5)
Engineering;
(6)
Warning services;
(7)
Communications;
(8)
Defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons;
(9)
Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
(10)
Emergency welfare services;
(11)
Emergency transportation;
(12)
Plant protection;
(13)
Temporary restoration of public utility services; and
(14)
Other functions related to civilian protection;
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Ord. of 3-3-61, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-32. - Unlawful acts during emergencies.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency management corps in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
Do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy; imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this city; or prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof.
(3)
Wear, carry or display without authority any mark or identification specified by the emergency management agency.
(Ord. of 3-3-61, § 8)
Secs. 26-33—26-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EMERGENCY AUTHORITY OF MAYOR

Sec. 26-56. - Conditions authorizing declaration of emergency.
The mayor shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one or more of the following conditions exist:
(1)
There is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
(2)
Unusual or extreme weather conditions, making use of city streets or areas difficult or impossible.
(3)
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
(4)
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(Ord. of 4-9-68, § 1)
Sec. 26-57. - Powers after declaration.
After declaration of an emergency under section 26-56, the mayor, as chief executive, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
(1)
Use employees of the city to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of its citizenry.
(2)
Close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
(3)
Impose emergency curfew regulations.
(4)
Close business establishments within the affected area.
(5)
Close any or all city-owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public.
(6)
Do all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
(Ord. of 4-9-68, § 2)
Sec. 26-58. - Effective period of emergency powers.
No emergency power as set forth in section 26-57 may be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the mayor. However, upon declaration of a second or further emergencies to exist, the emergency powers as set forth in such section may be exercised during such further emergency periods, but never for more than 72 hours in one declared emergency period.
Sec. 26-59. - Duration.
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or called meeting of the mayor and city council.
Sec. 26-60. - Specified area.
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Ord. of 4-9-68, § 3)
