ARTICLE II. - VENDING MACHINES, AMUSEMENT DEVICES, ETC.[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Amusements and entertainment, ch. 10.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Jukebox means any music vending machine, contrivance or device which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, disc or key into any slot, crevice or other opening, or by the payment of any price, is operated or may be operated, for the emission of songs, music or similar amusement.
Mechanical amusement device means any machine which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc, may be operated by the public generally by manipulating special equipment whereby a score is established, the object of which is to secure a special number of a high total score, where no prize is offered, and which is designed and manufactured for bona fide amusement purposes only, which may by application of skill entitle the player to replay the game or device, or which can react to no more than 15 free replays or can be discharged of accumulated free replays only by reactivating the game or device for one additional play for each accumulated free replay.
Vending machine means any automatic vending machine used for the sale of cigarettes and matches, and controlled by the insertion of a coin. It shall also include machines or devices used solely for the vending of service, food or confections.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-101)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-32. - Gambling devices not permitted.
Nothing in this article shall in any way be construed to authorize, license or permit any gambling devices whatsoever, or any mechanism that has been judicially determined to be a gambling device, or in any way contrary to law, or that may be contrary to any future laws of the state. This article shall include pinball machines, marble ball game machines, mechanical grab machines or any other type of machine, including video machines, that would authorize the dispensing of money or merchandise. This article shall be inconclusive of video games of all types.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-102)
Sec. 22-33. - Pool halls, game rooms, games of chance, gambling machines prohibited.
Nothing in this article shall authorize the licensing of pool halls, game rooms, games of chance and gambling machines; and these are specifically prohibited within the corporate limits of the city; provided that a single place of business having two pool tables or fewer will not violate this section 22-33.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-103; Ord. No. 2021-0426-01, § 1, 4-26-21)
Sec. 22-34. - Prohibitions and restrictions.
(a)
No person holding a license under this article shall permit persons under the age of 18 years of age to play or operate any mechanical amusement device between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of any day.
(b)
Adequate space shall be provided for each jukebox, mechanical amusement device, and vending machine so as to allow its use without overcrowding. The floor area devoted to the placement of mechanical amusement devices shall be a minimum of one machine for every 40 square feet of game floor area.
(c)
Mechanical amusement devices are an accessory to a commercial use in any C-1, C-2 and C-3 districts provided they are located in the same premises as the use to which they are accessory and are incidental to such use.
(d)
No person holding a license under this article shall permit the playing of jukeboxes between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-108; Ord. No. 2021-0426-01, § 2, 4-26-21)
Sec. 22-35. - Seizure and destruction of machine.
If the chief of police shall have reason to believe any mechanical amusement device is used as a gambling device, such machine may be seized by the police and impounded; and if upon trial of the exhibitor for allowing it to be used as a gambling device the exhibitor is found guilty, such machine shall be destroyed by the police.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-110)
Sec. 22-36. - Penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article, in addition to the revocation of his license, shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-111)
Secs. 22-37—22-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 22-61. - Required.
Any person displaying for public patronage or keeping for operation any cigarette vending machine, jukebox or mechanical amusement device shall be required to obtain a license from the city upon payment of a license fee. Application for such license shall be made to the manager upon a form to be supplied by the city manager for that purpose.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-104)
Sec. 22-62. - Application.
(a)
The application for a license required by this division shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name and address of the applicant, age, date and place of birth.
(2)
Prior convictions of the applicant, if any.
(3)
Place where the machine or device is to be displayed or operated and the business conducted at that place.
(4)
Description of the machine to be covered by the license, mechanical feature, name of manufacture, serial number.
(b)
No license shall be issued to any applicant unless he shall be over 21 years of age and a citizen of the United States, and of good moral character.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-104)
Sec. 22-63. - Inspection.
(a)
Application for license shall be made out in duplicate, one copy being referred to the chief of police.
(b)
The chief of police shall investigate the location wherein it is proposed to operate such machine, ascertain if the applicant is a person of good moral character, and either approve or disapprove the application.
(c)
No license shall be issued to any applicant unless approved by the chief of police.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-105)
Sec. 22-64. - Fees.
(a)
Every applicant, before being granted a license, shall pay the annual license fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for the privilege of operating or maintaining for operation each vending machine, jukebox or mechanical amusement device.
(b)
Each license shall be issued for a period of one year, the same to be a calendar year, running from January 1 through December 31 of the same calendar year.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-106)
Sec. 22-65. - Display.
(a)
The license provided for in this division shall be posted permanently and conspicuously at the location of the machine in the premises wherein the device is to be operated or maintained to be operated.
(b)
Such license may be transferred from one machine or device to another similar machine upon application to the city manager to such effect and the giving of a description and the serial number of the new machine or device. Not more than one machine shall be operated under one license, and the applicant or licensee shall be required to secure a license for each machine displayed or operated by him.
(c)
A license shall not be transferable from person to person nor place to place and shall be usable only at the place and by the person designated in the license.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-107)
Sec. 22-66. - Revocation.
Every license issued under this division is subject to the right, which is hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licensee, directly or indirectly, permit the operation of any vending machine, jukebox or mechanical amusement device contrary to the provisions of this division, the ordinances of the city, or the law of the state. The license may be revoked by the city council after written notice to the licensee, which notice shall specify the ordinance or law violations with which the licensee is charged, if after a hearing the licensee is found guilty of such violations. Ten days' notice of the hearing shall be given the licensee. At such hearings the licensee and his attorney may be present and submit evidence of witnesses in his defense.
(Ord. of 11-8-82, § 1-109)
Secs. 22-67—22-80. - Reserved.
