Chapter 42 - SOLID WASTE[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 42-1. - Adoption of solid waste management plan.
The Echols County Solid Waste Management Plan, in its form approved by the state department of community affairs and on file in the office of the county clerk, is adopted by reference.
(Res. of 6-3-1994)
Secs. 42-2—42-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTER CONTROL

Sec. 42-91. - Littering prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, cast, or deposit upon any highway, alley, or any yard or premises, public or private, any filth of any kind, or cans, paper, trash, paper containers, rubbish, bottles, or any other form of litter or waste whatsoever.
(Ord. of 5-8-1995, § 1)
Sec. 42-92. - Waste disposal generally.
(a)
The owner or occupant of any premises shall be responsible for the sanitary handling and disposition of garbage and refuse on the premises used or occupied by such person.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to dump, deposit, throw or leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter at any place in this county including, without limitation, any public or private property in this county or any waters in this county unless such litter originates in this county, and:
(1)
The property is designated by the board of commissioners or its duly designated agent for disposal of litter and the person is authorized to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed into a receptacle or container installed on such property; or
(3)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare and not otherwise in violation of law.
(Ord. of 5-8-1995, § 2)
Sec. 42-93. - Transporting litter.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle in the county hauling wet or moist waste that leaks, flows freely or spills from such vehicle.
(b)
Any litter or waste hauled on a moving vehicle shall be covered or secured in such a manner that litter will not blow or escape from such vehicle while moving or parked on public streets or roadways in the county.
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 46.
Sec. 42-94. - Regulation of garbage or litter containers or receptacles.
(a)
All garbage or litter containers or receptacles shall be maintained in as sanitary a manner as is reasonably possible consistent with its use for garbage and litter disposal.
(b)
Persons using garbage or litter containers or receptacles shall deposit all authorized garbage and refuse in the container or receptacle.
(c)
No person shall deposit any burning or smoldering material in any garbage or litter container or receptacle.
(d)
No person shall set fire to the contents of any garbage or litter container or receptacle.
(e)
No dead animals shall be deposited in any garbage or litter container or receptacle.
(f)
No person shall deposit large noncompactible articles in garbage or litter containers or receptacles such as stoves, refrigerators, bed springs or tires, large tree limbs, air conditioning units or similar items.
(g)
No one shall deposit any flammable or explosive materials in any garbage or litter container or receptacle.
(h)
No person shall disturb or scatter litter in and around garbage or litter containers or receptacles.
Sec. 42-95. - Scavenging.
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than designated employees in performing their normal duties, to rummage through, separate or remove any object placed in or upon such garbage container.
(Ord. of 5-8-1995, § 3)
Sec. 42-96. - Defacing containers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to paint upon, deface or in any way cause any damage whatsoever to any garbage container or receptacle placed upon the premises for the collection of garbage.
(Ord. of 5-8-1995, § 4)
