Chapter 22 - ENVIRONMENT[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - NOISE CONTROL

Sec. 22-31. - General prohibition.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise that unreasonably or unnecessarily annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the county. The provisions of this article shall not apply to or be enforced against:
(1)
Any vehicle of the county while engaged in necessary public business.
(2)
Excavations or repairs of streets by or on behalf of the county or state at night when public welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during the day.
(3)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses that are noncommercial in character.
Sec. 22-32. - Enumeration.
The acts contained in this article, among others, shall constitute a violation of this article; but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
Sec. 22-33. - Horns or signaling devices.
The following shall be a violation of this article:
(1)
The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place in the county except as a danger warning.
(2)
The creation of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means of any such signaling device and the sounding of any such device for an unreasonable period of time.
(3)
The use of any signaling device, except a police whistle or one operated by hand or electricity.
(4)
The use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust.
(5)
The use of any signaling device when traffic is held up for any reason.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 1)
Sec. 22-34. - Radios, phonographs, other machines or devices that produce or reproduce sound.
The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with a louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary listener shall be a violation of this article. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device 24 hours per day in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 2)
Sec. 22-35. - Loudspeakers, amplifiers or other devices for production or reproduction of sound for advertising.
The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure without a special permit from the county clerk or board of commissioners shall be a violation of this article. Announcements over loudspeakers can only be made by the announcer, in person, and without the aid of any mechanical device.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 3)
Sec. 22-36. - Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing.
Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 4)
Sec. 22-37. - Animals and birds.
The keeping of any animal or bird that will disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity by making long, continual or frequent noise shall be a violation of this article.
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 10.
Sec. 22-38. - Steam whistle.
The blowing of any train whistle or steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper county authorities, shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 5)
Sec. 22-39. - Exhausts.
The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device that will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises, shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 6)
Sec. 22-40. - Defect in vehicle or load.
The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such a manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 7)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 46.
Sec. 22-41. - Loading, unloading or opening boxes.
The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 8)
Sec. 22-42. - Construction or repairing of buildings.
The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair, of any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on weekdays, and 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays, except on urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the county building official, shall be a violation of this article. Such permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and may be renewed by the board of commissioners for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the board of commissioners determines that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., and further determines that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, the board may grant permission for such work to be done from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., upon application made at the time the permit for the work is applied for or during the progress of the work.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 9)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14.
Sec. 22-43. - Schools, courts, churches or hospitals.
The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while they are in session or adjacent to any hospital, and which unreasonably interferes with the work of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed about such institutions indicating the presence of such institutions, shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 10)
Sec. 22-44. - Hawkers, peddlers and vendors.
The shouting and crying of hawkers, peddlers and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 11)
Sec. 22-45. - Noises to attract attention.
The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show or sale by creation of noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 12)
Sec. 22-46. - Transportation of metal rails, pillars or columns.
The transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 22-47. - Piledrivers, hammers or other such appliances.
The operation from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any piledriver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise without a special permit from the board of commissioners, shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 13)
Sec. 22-48. - Blowers.
The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise, shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 14)
Sec. 22-49. - Sound trucks.
The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for advertising or other commercial purposes and the use of sound trucks for noncommercial purposes during such hours or in such places or with such volume as would constitute such use a public nuisance shall be a violation of this article.
(Mo. of 8-29-2002, § 15)
Sec. 22-50. - Vehicle repair in residential areas.
The repairing, rebuilding, or testing of any motor vehicle between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within any residential area in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the residents of the area shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 22-51. - Exemptions.
(a)
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise regulations set forth in this article:
(1)
Noises of safety signals and warning devices.
(2)
Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or responding to an emergency.
(3)
Noises resulting from emergency work, to be construed as work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity, or work requited to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
(b)
Applications for other exemptions from the noise regulations of this article should be filed with the county clerk for approval by the chairman, and should state the time, date, organization and reason for the request.
Sec. 22-52. - Injunctions.
The operation or maintenance of any device, vehicle, or machinery in violation of any provision of this article which causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of normal sensitivity or which endangers the comfort, repose, health, or peace of residents of this county shall be deemed, and is declared to be, a public nuisance, and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Secs. 22-53—22-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NUISANCES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-81. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nuisance means anything within the county that causes hurt, inconvenience or damage to another; and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but it shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable person. Any such nuisance may be abated as provided in this article.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1.
Sec. 22-82. - Enumeration.
(a)
The various nuisances described and enumerated in this section shall not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other nuisances described and prohibited in this Code.
(b)
The following are declared to be nuisances:
(1)
Things interfering with peace or comfort. Sounds, animals or things that interfere with the peace or comfort or disturb the quiet of the county.
(2)
Obnoxious, offensive odors. The emission of obnoxious and offensive odors; the tainting of the air rendering it offensive or unwholesome so as to affect the health or comfort of reasonable persons residing in the neighborhood.
(3)
Discharging of offensive matter. The placing or throwing or discharging from any house or premises and flow from or out of any house or premises, of any filthy, foul or offensive matter or liquid of any kind, into any street, alley or public place, or upon any adjacent lot or ground.
(4)
Water pollution. The obstruction or pollution of any watercourse or source of water supply in the county.
(5)
Emission of dense smoke. The emission of dense smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or other agency in the county so as to cause disturbance or discomfort to the public. For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Smoke Chart, as published and used by the United States Geological Survey, shall be the standard for such grading; and smoke shall be defined and declared to be dense when it is of a degree of density of number three on the chart, or greater, for more than six minutes in any one hour, whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(6)
Vacant lots. Any vacant lot whereon debris is permitted to accumulate and remain in such a manner as to create a fire hazard or other hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
(7)
Nonconforming structures and machines. Any building, business, thing, machine or machinery erected, repaired, conducted, maintained, operated or used contrary to or in violation of any of the fire and safety regulations of this Code, state law or county ordinance.
(8)
Animal enclosures. Any enclosure in which any animals are kept, dog kennels or runs and other animal or fowl pens wherein manure, dung, filth or litter is allowed to accumulate.
(9)
Dead animals. The carcass of any dead animal of any kind on any premises within the county.
(10)
Depositing trash, garbage and refuse on private or public property. The depositing and leaving on private or public property of trash, garbage, refuse, scrap building materials, paper, cardboard containers, brick, cement rubbish, tree residue, cans, containers, or any other rubbish or trash that is a menace to public health and safety in the county or which unreasonably annoys others.
(11)
Unoccupied buildings. Unoccupied buildings that are not properly whitewashed or cleansed.
(12)
Unsafe vehicles, machinery and equipment. Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked, and other automobiles not in a good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured for a period of 30 days or more (except in licensed junkyards). The absence of a license plate for the current year and/or the absence of a current motor vehicle registration shall be prima facie evidence that such vehicle is junked.
(13)
Gutters or spouts. Any gutter or spout that conveys filth into any street, lane or alley of the county.
Sec. 22-83. - Prohibited generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit the existence of any nuisance on any property within the county.
Sec. 22-84. - Issuance of summons for abatement.
Whenever any nuisance exists within the county, or whenever any condition shall exist on any property within the county that is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated under any of the ordinances of the county, and the owner or other responsible person refuses or fails after reasonable notice to demolish, remove or abate the nuisance, the sheriff, or the officer having responsibility for enforcement of this article, may issue a summons and cause the summons to be served upon such owner or other person responsible for such condition, describing the condition complained of and specifying the ordinances or parts of ordinances claimed to be violated, and requiring such person to appear before the magistrate judge at a time, date and place specified in the summons, to show cause why such condition should not be demolished, removed or abated.
Sec. 22-85. - Order for abatement.
(a)
If the magistrate judge at the hearing required by section 22-84 shall determine that a condition does exist as alleged that constitutes a nuisance or a condition which under this Code or the ordinances of the county is required or subject to be demolished, removed or abated, the judge shall issue his/her order and judgment so finding and shall order the property owner or other responsible person to demolish, remove or abate the condition within a period of time to be fixed by the judge. The order shall provide how the condition is to be abated, including, but not limited to, rehabilitation or demolition of any buildings or structures located on the property in question. The order shall further provide that if the property owner or other responsible person shall fail to comply with the order within the time specified, the county shall be authorized to proceed without further notice to demolish, remove or abate such condition and to take whatever actions deemed necessary to demolish, remove or abate such condition; and the expense shall be charged against the owner of the property in question and shall be a lien against the property upon which the condition existed, ranking equally with the lien for county taxes.
(b)
Execution shall issue for such costs as in the case of county taxes, and the procedure for the enforcement of the execution shall thereafter be the same as in the case of county taxes.
State Law reference— Authorization and procedure for abatement of nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 22-86. - Special provisions for old, unused, stripped, junked automobiles.
(a)
Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked and other automobiles not in a good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured for a period of 30 days or more, except in licensed junkyards, within this county is a nuisance.
(b)
The owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any lot within this county upon which the storage of property is made, and also the owners and/or lessees of the property involved in such storage shall jointly and severally abate the nuisance by the prompt removal of the property into completely enclosed buildings authorized to be used for such storage purposes, if within the county, or otherwise by removing it to a location outside the corporate limits.
Sec. 22-87. - Constituting imminent danger.
Whenever any condition shall exist which constitutes an immediate and grave hazard to public health and safety requiring immediate action, the condition may be abated or otherwise remedied summarily and without following the procedures set forth in sections 22-84 and 22-85.
Sec. 22-88. - Service on nonresidents and others.
Whenever it shall be necessary for the county to proceed under sections 22-84 and 22-85 and the owner of the property or other responsible person resides outside the county limits, or cannot be found after diligent search, service of the notice required by section 22-85 shall be made by posting a copy of the notice on the property involved, and by publishing the notice in a newspaper having general circulation in the county once a week for four consecutive weeks, the last notice to be not longer than ten days nor less than one day prior to the hearing. Where the address of the person to be served is known, or where there is a last known address, a copy of the notice shall also be mailed to the person at such address by certified mail. In all cases where personal service cannot be made upon such person within the county limits, the case shall proceed as quasi in rem, and the execution shall issue in rem.
Sec. 22-89. - Other powers preserved.
Nothing in this article shall in any way affect the power and authority of the magistrate judge to punish for any violations which the conditions may constitute, nor shall it affect the power and authority of the magistrate judge to punish by contempt the failure to comply with his/her order.
Secs. 22-90—22-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES[2]

Sec. 22-141. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned motor vehicle means a motor vehicle or trailer which:
(1)
Has been left by the owner or some person acting for the owner with an automobile dealer, repairman, or wrecker service for repair or for some other reason and has not been called for by such owner or other person within a period of 30 days after the time agreed upon; or within 30 days after such vehicle is turned over to such dealer, repairman, or wrecker service when no time is agreed upon; or within 30 days after the completion of necessary repairs;
(2)
Is left unattended on a public street, road, highway or other public property for a period of at least five days and when it reasonably appears to a law enforcement officer that the individual who left such motor vehicle unattended does not intend to return and remove such motor vehicle;
(3)
Has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a law enforcement officer and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone's having made claim to the vehicle;
(4)
Has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a property owner on whose property the vehicle was abandoned and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without the owner's having made claim to the vehicle; or
(5)
Has been left unattended on private property for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone's having made claim to the vehicle.
Motor vehicle and vehicle mean a motor vehicle and trailer.
Owner means the owner, lessor, lessee, security interest holders, and all lienholders as shown on the records of the state department of revenue.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1.
Sec. 22-142. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner, occupant, lessee, agent, tenant or otherwise, to store or deposit, or cause or permit to be stored or deposited, any abandoned motor vehicle upon any public or private property within the county.
Sec. 22-143. - Removal—Required.
Any abandoned, junked or discarded motor vehicle shall be removed upon ten days' written notice to the owner or occupant of any premises upon which the motor vehicle is stored or deposited, or to the owner thereof if the identity of such owner of the motor vehicle can be ascertained through license plates or otherwise. If such motor vehicle is not removed after ten days' written notice, the sheriff's department of the county shall remove or cause the removal and sale at the cost of the owner or occupant of the premises, or the owner of such motor vehicle, if such owner can be ascertained. Sale shall be made to the highest of two bids obtained from dealers in such property.
Sec. 22-144. - Same—Notice to owner and state.
(a)
Any person who removes a motor vehicle from public or private property at the request of someone other than the owner or who stores any motor vehicle which has been left unattended shall seek the identity of the owner of such vehicle and shall, within 15 days of the day such vehicle became an abandoned motor vehicle, give notice in writing to the state department of revenue and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, stating the manufacturer's vehicle identification number, the license number, the fact that such vehicle is an abandoned motor vehicle, and the present location of such vehicle, and requesting the name and address of all owners, lessors, lessees, security interest holders, and lienholders of such vehicle. If a person removing or storing the vehicle has knowledge of facts which reasonably indicate that the vehicle is registered or titled in a certain other state, he/she shall check the motor vehicle records of that other state in the attempt to ascertain the identity of the owner of the vehicle.
(b)
Upon ascertaining the owner of such motor vehicle, the person removing or storing such vehicle shall, within three days, by certified or registered mail, notify the owner, lessors, lessees, security interest holders, and lienholders of the location of such vehicle and of the fact that such vehicle is deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of if not redeemed.
(c)
If the identity of the owner of such motor vehicle cannot be ascertained, the person removing or storing such vehicle shall place an advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where such vehicle was obtained or, if there is no newspaper in the county, shall post such advertisement at the county courthouse in such place where other public notices are posted. Such advertisement shall run in the newspaper once a week for two consecutive weeks or shall remain posted at the courthouse for two consecutive weeks. The advertisement shall contain a complete description of the motor vehicle, its license and manufacturer's vehicle identification numbers, the location where such vehicle was initially left unattended by the owner, the present location of such vehicle, and the fact that such vehicle is deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of if not redeemed.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-2.
