PART I - SPECIAL ACTS[1]
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 1.1. - Commissioners; election, terms, etc.
There shall be a Board of Commissioners of Echols County to consist of three persons to be elected by the voters of Echols County and commissioned by the Governor. Said commissioners shall hold office for terms of four years from January 1, 1981, and until their respective successors have been elected and qualified. Said commissioners shall be elected at the November general election in 1980, and at the November general election every four years thereafter. There shall be three posts on said board designated as "Post 1," "Post 2," and "Post 3." Each candidate for office on said board of commissioners shall be required to designate by number the post to which he/she seeks to be elected. Elections of members shall be held in accordance with the "Georgia Election Code."
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 2; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3727, § 1)
Sec. 1.2. - Members elected in 1968.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 1.1 to the contrary, candidates elected to the board in the 1968 general election to take office on January 1, 1969, shall serve for a term of office of four years. Thereafter the terms of office of the members of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Echols County shall be for four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 3418, § 1)
Sec. 1.3. - Bond, oath.
Before entering upon the duties of the office, each of said commissioners shall give bond, payable to the Governor, constituting an obligation of each of said commissioners, conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties as required by law, the same as other county officers, which bond shall be executed by some bonding company authorized to do business in Georgia. The probate judge of said county shall administer the oaths of office to said commissioners, but shall not administer the oath of office nor deliver the commissions to any of said commissioners until said bond has been executed and filed with the probate judge as other bonds of county officers. The premium on said bonds shall be paid out of the funds belonging to the county.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 3)
Sec. 1.4. - Duties.
Said board of commissioners shall have exclusive jurisdiction, when sitting for county purposes, in governing and controlling all county property in accordance with law; to levy taxes, licenses, and other levies, except those specially delegated to other officers by law; to establish, alter and abolish all county roads [and] bridges; to examine, allow and settle all claims against the county; to cause to be examined and audited the accounts of all the officers of the county not otherwise provided by law; to receive and pay out all fines and forfeitures and to require, under penalty of having their office declared vacated, a complete and regular accounting of all funds coming into the hands of the sheriff, clerk of the superior court, the county court, judge and clerk, and other officers or persons receiving public funds and forfeitures, and all other funds belonging to the county, or funds in which the county has an interest, except school funds, at such time or times as they shall deem needful; and shall have authority to make all rules and regulations needful and necessary in carrying out all their duties.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 4)
Sec. 1.5. - Compensation.
Said commissioners shall pay themselves per month each, which shall be in lieu of all salary or other compensation for their respective services. They shall pay to themselves their actual expenses incurred in performing their duties that require their presence outside the County of Echols, but not otherwise.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 5; 1992 Ga. Laws, page 5381, § 1)
Sec. 1.6. - Chairman.
Said commissioners shall meet on the first Thursday of each month, and at such other times as they shall, by majority vote, designate, or when called by the chairman. They shall elect from among their number a chairman, and a vice-chairman, who shall have such power and authority, in accordance with this Act, as they shall by majority designate.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 6)
Sec. 1.7. - Clerk.
Said commissioners shall elect a clerk biennially, who shall be paid per month. Such clerk shall keep all the minutes and other records of said commissioners, and shall record in the minutes all action taken by said commissioners.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 7; 1962 Ga. Laws, page 2738, § 1)
Sec. 1.8. - County attorney.
Said commissioners may at any time appoint a county attorney whose duty it shall be to counsel with said commissioners on legal matters and perform such other legal services as may be required of him. He/she shall be paid for services rendered. This section shall not be construed to prevent said commissioners from employing said county attorney or other attorneys for extraordinary services as may be required for litigation.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 8; 1969 Ga. Laws, page 3677, § 2)
Sec. 1.9. - Superintendent of roads.
Said commissioners may employ a superintendent of county roads and such other employees as they may deem necessary in order to work the roads and perform such other duties as may come within the power and under the jurisdiction of the commissioners.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 9; 1955 Ga. Laws, page 2040, § 3)
Sec. 1.10. - Funds.
Said commissioners shall maintain a county depository or depositories in which money receipts shall be deposited and from which withdrawals shall be made by checks. The clerk shall keep a complete and accurate record of all county funds in such manner as said commissioners shall provide, and which shall be simple and easy to understand and keep, but full and complete. No withdrawals from the depositories shall be made without approval of chairman [or designee] and checks require two signatures.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 10; 1955 Ga. Laws, page 2040, § 4)
Sec. 1.11. - Incumbents.
The present commissioners of said county shall serve until the expiration of the terms for which elected, and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 11)
Sec. 1.12. - Records, reports.
All the books and records of said commissioners shall be open to inspection by the grand jury and the public at large at all reasonable times.
(1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. sess., page 2054, § 12)
ARTICLE II. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2.1—2.20. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SHERIFF

Sec. 2.21. - Fee system.
The present mode of compensating the sheriff of Echols County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
(1965 Ga. Laws, page 2918, § 1)
Sec. 2.22. - Salary.
The sheriff shall receive an annual salary per Georgia Code.
(1965 Ga. Laws, page 2918, § 2; 1975 Ga. Laws, page 3664, § 1)
Sec. 2.23. - Fees.
After the effective date of this Act, said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him/her as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the sheriff shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
(1965 Ga. Laws, page 2918, § 3)
Sec. 2.24. - Expenses.
The county shall pay from its general fund such necessary expenses, the increment of which may be authorized by the governing authority of the county for communication equipment, office supplies, and authorized travel outside the limits of said county per mile. It shall also reimburse the sheriff for the cost of meals for prisoners per Georgia Code. All other expenses, including automobile expense, shall be paid from the sheriff's budget.
(1965 Ga. Laws, page 2918, § 4)
Secs. 2.25—2.50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - TAX COMMISSIONER

Sec. 2.51. - Created.
The offices of Tax Receiver and Tax Collector of Echols County are hereby consolidated and combined into the one office of Tax Commissioner of Echols County. The rights, duties and liabilities of said office of tax commissioner, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be the same as those imposed upon tax receivers and tax collectors by the laws of this State.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2977, § 1)
Sec. 2.52. - Election.
The first election for the office of tax commissioner created herein shall be held at the same time as the election for other county officers of Echols County is held in 1972, and the person so elected shall take office on January 1, 1973, for a term of four (4) years and until his/her successor is elected and qualified. All future elections for tax commissioner shall likewise be held at the same time as elections for other county officers, and all future tax commissioners shall likewise have a term of office of four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Nothing herein shall affect the term of office of the present Tax Collector and Tax Receiver of Echols County, and the terms of such tax collector and tax receiver shall continue through December 31, 1972. Should any vacancy occur in the office of tax commissioner, the same shall be filled as vacancies are filled in the office of tax collector.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2977, § 2)
Sec. 2.53. - Salary.
The Tax Commissioner shall be compensated by an annual salary, per Georgia Code, in equal monthly installments from the funds of Echols County. The governing authority of Echols County, at its discretion, shall be authorized to increase the annual salary provided for herein by 5% at the beginning of each new four-year term of office, and the first such increase may become effective on January 1, 1977, at the discretion of said governing authority.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 4005, § 1)
Sec. 2.54. - Taxes due.
All taxes due and payable at the time the tax commissioner takes office shall continue to be due and payable until paid. All tax fi. fas. theretofore issued shall have full force and effect and be collectible as issued.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2977, § 3)
Sec. 2.55. - Collection of taxes; appointment of personnel.
All fees, commissions, costs and other income collected by the tax commissioner, including those commissions allowed by an Act approved March 9, 1955 (1955 Ga. Laws, page 659), as amended, relating to the sale of motor vehicle license plates by local tax officials, notwithstanding the fact that such services for which the commissions are derived, may have been performed in the capacity of an agent for the State Revenue Department, and an Act relating to commissions on taxes collected in excess of a certain percentage of the taxes due according to the Tax Net Digest, approved January 17, 1938 (1937-1938 Ga. Laws, ex. sess., page 297), as amended, shall be the property of Echols County and once each month shall be turned over to the fiscal authority of said county by the tax commissioner with a detailed, itemized and sworn statement showing the source from which such fees, commissions, costs and other income were collected. The tax commissioner shall have authority to appoint a deputy or such other personnel as he/she may deem necessary to aid him/her in the conduct of his/her office; however, compensation for personnel shall be included in the tax collector's budget. All reasonable expenses incurred by the tax commissioner in operating and discharging the official duties of his/her office, except for the compensation of personnel, shall be paid by the county from county funds; however, no equipment or fixtures for said office may be purchased without the prior approval of the county commissioners.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2977, § 4)
Sec. 2.56. - Office hours.
The tax commissioner shall not be required to leave his/her office or make rounds for the purpose of receiving returns or collecting taxes. The tax commissioner shall keep his/her office open for business per Georgia Code.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2977, § 5)
Sec. 2.57. - Oath.
The tax commissioner, before entering upon the duties of his/her office, shall take the oath prescribed for the tax collector and shall give bond as provided for the tax collector.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2977, § 6)
ARTICLE III. - BOARDS AND AUTHORITIES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 3.1—3.20. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WATER AUTHORITY

Sec. 3.21. - Short Title.
This may be cited as the "Echols County Water Authority Act."
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 1)
Sec. 3.22. - Echols County Water Authority.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the Echols County Water Authority which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The Authority shall consist of five members, all of whom shall be residents of Echols County, Georgia, and shall at the time of appointment be users of the facilities of the Authority. The provision as to being a user shall not apply to the members of the Authority initially appointed.
The initial members of the Authority shall be the following named persons and each of said persons shall serve as a member of the Authority for the number of years set forth opposite their respective names:
EXPAND
Mr. Franklin G. Staten 5 years
Mr. James L. Raulerson 4 years
Mr. Thomas Powell 3 years
Mr. W. R. Collier 2 years
Mr. Garland Carter 1 year
  Thereafter, members shall be appointed by a majority vote of the users of the facilities of the Authority at its annual meeting to be held in January of each year and such members so appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years and until their successors shall have been appointed. Any member of the Authority may be appointed to succeed himself.
Immediately after their appointment, the members of the Authority shall enter upon their duties. They shall elect one of their number as chairman, another as vice-chairman, and may also elect a secretary and/or treasurer, who need not necessarily be a member of the Authority. The chairman and vice-chairman, secretary and treasurer shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Three members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum.
In the event of a vacancy by reason of death, disqualification, resignation, or other reason, the remaining members of the Authority, by majority vote, shall appoint a person meeting the qualifications above set out for membership to serve until the next annual meeting of the users of the facilities of the Authority, when such vacancy shall be filled by majority vote of said users.
No vacancy on the Authority shall impair the rights of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the Authority.
The chairman of the Authority shall not be entitled to vote upon any issue, motion, or resolution, except in the case of a tie vote of the other members voting on said motion, resolution, or question.
The members of the Authority shall serve without compensation provided that all members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The Authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 2)
Sec. 3.23. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the Echols County Water Authority created by Section 3.22 of this Act.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual water facilities useful and necessary for the obtaining of one or more sources of water supply, the treatment of water and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including counties and municipalities, for the purpose of resale, within and without the territorial boundaries of Echols County and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate water utility system deemed by the Authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking; the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter, individual and industrial, the treatment of such waste including the acquisition and construction of treatment plants, lagoons, without and within the territorial boundaries of Echols County, and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities deemed necessary by the Authority to be necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of a sanitary and storm sewer system.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of acquisition of existing facilities, the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds" and "bonds" as used in this Act, shall mean revenue certificates as defined and provided for in the Revenue Certificate Law of Georgia, (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761, as amended) and such type of obligations may be issued by the Authority as authorized under said Revenue Certificate Law and in addition, shall also mean obligations of the Authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this Act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the Authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the Authority therefrom will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 3)
Sec. 3.24. - Powers.
The Authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease, and dispose of, real and personal property, of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, or rights of easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the name so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the Authority, the Authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the Authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance; and if the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the Governor is hereby authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the State, title to such lands to the Authority upon payment to the State Treasurer for the credit of the general fund of the State, the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three appraisers to be agreed upon by the Governor and the chairman of the Authority;
(d)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
To make contracts, leases, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases or projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the State are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements, with the Authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the Authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water and related services and facilities by the Authority to such municipal corporations and counties for a term not exceeding fifty (50) years;
(f)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the Authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
To accept loans and/or grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(i)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, provided the same is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this State; and
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 4)
Sec. 3.25. - Revenue Bonds.
The Authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the Authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the Authority, in a sum not to exceed one million ($1,000,000.00) dollars outstanding at any one time, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund hereby provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding nine per cent (9%) per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, or at such times exceeding 40 years as may hereafter be authorized by the bonding laws of the State of Georgia, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution for the issuance of bonds.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 5)
Sec. 3.26. - Same, form; denominations; registration, place of payment.
The Authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the State. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the Authority may determine. Provisions may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 6)
Sec. 3.27. - Same; signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds, or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon, shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if he/she had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the Authority and the official seal of the Authority shall be affixed thereto and attached by the secretary of the Authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the signature or facsimile signature of the chairman of the Authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the Authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 7)
Sec. 3.28. - Same; negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instrument laws of this State. Such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the State.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 8)
Sec. 3.29. - Same; sale; price.
The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the Authority, but no such sale shall be made at a price so low as to require the payment of interest on the money received therefor at more than nine percent (9%) per annum, computed with relation to the absolute maturity of the bonds in accordance with standard tables of bond values, excluding, however, from such computation, the amount of any premium to be paid on redemption of any bond prior to maturity.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 9)
Sec. 3.30. - Same; proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued, to provide the amount of any deficit, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same, and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund, without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund, hereinafter provided, for the payment of principal and interest of such bonds.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 10)
Sec. 3.31. - Same; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 11)
Sec. 3.32. - Same; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 12)
Sec. 3.33. - Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings, or the happening of any conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the Authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the Authority by a majority of its members.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 13)
Sec. 3.34. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Echols County or a pledge of the faith and credit of said county, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for, and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor, or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this Section.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 14)
Sec. 3.35. - Same; trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the Authority, any issuance of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the Authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the State. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the Authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the Authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this State to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the Authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the Authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 15)
Sec. 3.36. - Same; to whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The Authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person, who, or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 16)
Sec. 3.37. - Same; sinking funds.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such have been issued unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the Authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the Authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds not pledged, from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking funds shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be found for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 17)
Sec. 3.38. - Same; remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia, or granted hereunder, or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the Authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 18)
Sec. 3.39. - Same; refunding bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the Authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the Authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 19)
Sec. 3.40. - Same; venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such Authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Echols County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 20)
Sec. 3.41. - Same; validation.
Bonds of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, as amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the Authority for services and facilities of the water system for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the Authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the Authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality contracting with the said Echols County Water Authority.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 21)
Sec. 3.42. - Same; interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said Authority or of its officers, employees, or agents, shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority, will be created which will compete with the Authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the rights and interests of the holders of such bonds, nor will the State itself so compete with the Authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the Authority and, the holder of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 22)
Sec. 3.43. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants, or other contributions, or as revenues, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 23)
Sec. 3.44. - Purpose of the Authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the general purpose of the Authority is declared to be that of acquiring an adequate source or sources of water supply, treatment of such water, and thereafter the distribution of same to [the] Echols County water system, and the various townships and citizens in said county and environs, including adjoining counties and municipalities located therein; and further for the general purpose of gathering and treatment of waste, both individual and industrial, but such general purpose shall not restrict the Authority from selling and delivering water direct to consumers in those areas where there does not now exist water distribution systems or furnishing sewer facilities to such consumers and areas where neither any county nor municipality deems it desirable or feasible to furnish water in such locality.
The Authority shall also have the authority, where it deems it feasible, to sell its products and services to consumers, governmental agencies, or governmental instrumentalities of adjoining states provided the laws of the adjoining state do not prohibit or tax said activity.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 24)
Sec. 3.45. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls, or charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls, or charges, for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvements, betterment or extension of the water and sewer utility system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 25)
Sec. 3.46. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the Authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which water and sewer service and facilities shall be furnished.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 26)
Sec. 3.47. - Tax exempt status of Authority.
The properties of the Authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia, and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income; and such properties and the Authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the State or any political subdivision thereof. The tax exemption herein provided shall not include any exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by the Authority or for use by the Authority.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 27)
Sec. 3.48. - Tort immunity.
The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Echols County; and the officers, agents and employees of the Authority when in the performance of the work of the Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of Echols County when in [the] performance of their public duties or work of the county.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 28)
Sec. 3.49. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing Sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 29)
Sec. 3.50. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the State and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to affect the purposes thereof.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 30)
Sec. 3.51. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 31)
Sec. 3.52. - Preservation of Powers.
This Act does not in any way take from Echols County or any municipality located [within Echols County] or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate and maintain water or sewer systems or issue revenue certificates as is provided by the Revenue Certificate Law of Georgia.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2981, § 32)
Secs. 3.53—3.70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Sec. 3.71. - Proposed amendment.
Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
A.
Created. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Echols County in the State of Georgia to be known as the Echols County Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Echols County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "Authority."
B.
Members. The Authority shall consist of five members who shall serve for a term of five years and who shall be eligible for reappointment. The members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Echols County. The first members shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three, four and five years, respectively, and thereafter their successors shall be appointed for terms of five years. Members shall serve until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Echols County. A majority of members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the Authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act. Membership on the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Echols County shall not prohibit any such member from being appointed to the Authority. Membership on the Authority will not disqualify any person to hold any public office.
C.
Property. The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Echols County. The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the Authority; and shall not include exemptions from sale and use taxes on property purchased by the Authority or for use by the Authority.
D.
Powers. The powers of the Authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, accept and give options upon, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease, as lessor or lessee, and mortgage land, buildings, and real and personal property of all kinds within Echols County.
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts.
(3)
To grant, loan and lease without adequate consideration or without any consideration and with and without security, any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations operating or proposing to operate any industrial plant or establishment within Echols County. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other power of the Authority.
(4)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue notes, bonds and debentures and execute deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor.
(5)
To issue revenue anticipation certificates of bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority. To exercise all of the rights, powers and privileges and be subject to the same liabilities as a municipality under the provisions of the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, pages 761—774), as amended, with reference to the issuance of such certificates or bonds and validation of same insofar as such pertain to the corporate purposes of the Authority.
(6)
To contract with Echols County and other political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and to be sued in its corporate name.
(7)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority.
(8)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial, agricultural, recreational and trade facilities in Echols County, and to make long range plans therefor, so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end its acquiral by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Echols County suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, fabricating plant, or any other type of structure, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building. All of such acquisitions of property or machinery, equipment or furnishings may be made through the use of funds derived through the issuance of revenue certificates and all expansions of new or existing facilities may be made through the use of such funds.
(9)
To exercise such other powers and duties, consistent with the purposes of the Authority, as may be delegated to it by the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Echols County.
(10)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(11)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter.
(12)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
E.
Debts. The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against Echols County, nor the State of Georgia.
F.
Torts. The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia; and the officers, agents and employees of the Authority, when in [the] performance of the work of the Authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia when in [the] performance of their public duties or work of the State. The Authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the Authority.
G.
Member compensation. The members of the Authority shall receive only such compensation for their services to the Authority as shall be authorized by the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Echols County but such compensation shall be paid from funds of the Authority.
H.
Taxes. The governing authority of Echols County is hereby authorized to levy an annual tax in an amount to be determined by such governing authority, but in no event shall such tax exceed three (3) mills on all taxable property within the County for the support of the Authority and for its use and purposes, and all funds raised by such tax shall be paid and appropriated by Echols County to the Authority and when paid to the Authority, shall become a part of its funds and may be used by it for any of its purposes and powers as herein stated or as may be hereafter provided by law, which tax shall be in addition to all other taxes authorized by law.
I.
Funds. Echols County is also authorized, in addition to the tax provided above, to appropriate to the Authority such amount from its funds each year as its governing authority shall determine to be appropriate, but not exceeding twenty per cent of its total receipts from business licenses for the year, and any funds so appropriated when paid to the Authority shall become a part of its funds and may be used by the Authority in accordance with its powers and purposes as herein stated or as may be hereafter defined by law.
J.
Property. The property of the Authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the Authority, and any such property, funds, or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the Authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
K.
Intent. This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare of Echols County and its citizens, industry, agriculture, trade, commerce and recreation within Echols County, and making of long range plans for such development and expansion and to authorize the use of public funds of Echols County for such purposes, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of this purpose.
L.
General Assembly. The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority. The Authority shall be an instrumentality of Echols County, and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within Echols County. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the Authority nor the scope of its operations beyond the limits of Echols County.
M.
Unlimited Debts. There shall be no limitation upon the amount of debt which the Authority may incur, but no debt created by the Authority shall be a debt of Echols County, nor the State of Georgia.
N.
Title to property. Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Echols County, subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
O.
Definitions. As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include property, real and/or personal, acquired or held by the Authority for the assistance, promotion, establishment or development of a new industry or industries, or the assistance, promotion or expansion of existing industry, trade or commerce in Echols County, or any combination thereof; the acquisition of any such property for any such purpose or purposes; the improvement of any such property or properties; and/or the construction, installation and/or expansion of one or more buildings, plants, and/or articles of equipment for the purpose of using, selling, donating, leasing and/or renting such land, properties, improvements, structures or equipment to public or private persons, firms, corporations and/or associations for such purposes.
(2)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of lands, buildings, improvements, machinery, equipment, properties, easements, rights, franchises, materials, labor and services acquired and/or contracted for; the cost of financing charges and/or of interest prior to and during construction; architectural, accounting, engineering, inspection, fiscal and/or legal expenses; cost of plans and/or specifications; and/or any other expenses necessary or incident to construction and/or improvements, and/or to determining the feasibility and/or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and/or the acquisition, construction, equipping and/or operating any project or any part thereof.
P.
Effective date. This amendment shall be self-executing and effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the Authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
(1965 Ga. Laws, page 710, § 1)
Sec. 3.72. - Publication and submittal.
When the above proposed amendment to the Constitution shall have been agreed to by two-thirds of the members elected to each of the two branches of the General Assembly, and the same has been entered on their journals with the "Ayes" and "Nays" taken thereon, such proposed amendment shall be published and submitted as provided in Article XIII, Section I, Paragraph I of the Constitution of Georgia of 1945, as amended.
The Ballot submitting the above proposed amendment shall have written or printed thereon the following:
EXPAND
YES ( ) Shall the Constitution be amended so as
NO ( ) to create the Echols County Development Authority?
  All persons desiring to vote in favor of ratifying the proposed amendment shall vote "Yes." All persons desiring to vote against ratifying the proposed amendment shall vote "No."
If such amendment shall be ratified as provided in said Paragraph of the Constitution, it shall become a part of the Constitution of this State. The returns of the election shall be made in like manner as returns for elections for members of the General Assembly, and it shall be the duty of the Secretary of State to ascertain the result and certify the result to the Governor, who shall issue his/her proclamation thereon.
(1965 Ga. Laws, page 710, § 2)
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIARY[3]

Sec. 4.1. - Probate judge as county judge.
Article VI, Section VI of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph:
Effective January 1, 1979, the Judge of the Probate Court of Echols County shall be also and is hereby designated the Judge of the County Court of Echols County. The Judge of the County Court of Echols County elected at the 1976 general election shall serve until December 31, 1978, and the term of office of said Judge is hereby shortened to expire on December 31, 1978. On January 1, 1979, the Judge of the Probate Court of Echols County shall be vested with all the powers and duties as Judge of the County Court of Echols County as well as the powers and duties of the Judge of the Probate Court of Echols County. The compensation of the Judge of the Probate Court of Echols County also serving as Judge of the County Court of Echols County shall be as provided by local law, but until otherwise provided by local law, such Judge shall receive an annual salary per Georgia Code, which shall be payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Echols County. The governing authority of Echols County shall be authorized to increase said salary by 5% at the beginning of each new four-year term of office with the first such increase, at the discretion of said governing authority, becoming effective on January 1, 1981. Effective January 1, 1979, and thereafter, all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed the Judge of the Probate Court of Echols County and the Judge of the County Court of Echols County for services in any capacity shall be paid into the treasury of Echols County on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 1821, § 1)
Sec. 4.2. - Collections.
All fees, costs, percentages, forfeitures, penalties, allowances, and all other perquisites of whatever kind, as are now or may hereafter be allowed by the law, to be received or collected as compensation for service by the clerk of the Superior Court of Echols County shall be received and diligently collected by the clerk of the Superior Court of Echols County for the sole use of Echols County and shall be held as public moneys belonging to Echols County and accounted for and paid into the county treasury by the tenth day of each month, for the immediately preceding month, at which time a detailed itemized statement shall be made by the clerk of the superior court under oath showing such collections and the sources from which collected, and Echols County shall keep a separate account showing such collections and the sources from which they are paid.
(1993 Ga. Laws, page 3754, § 1)
Sec. 4.3. - Salary of superior court clerk.
The clerk of the Superior Court of Echols County shall receive a salary in the minimum amount specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-6-88, payable in equal monthly installments from county funds.
(1993 Ga. Laws, page 3754, § 2)
Sec. 4.4. - Employment of deputies and other employees.
The governing authority of Echols County may, but shall not be required to, authorize the clerk of the superior court to employ deputies and other employees. The salaries of the above employees shall be payable in equal monthly installments out of county funds.
(1993 Ga. Laws, page 3754, § 3)
Sec. 4.5. - Chief magistrate.
The judge of the Probate Court of Echols County shall serve as chief magistrate of Echols County. The minimum compensation of the person serving as judge of the Probate Court and chief magistrate of Echols County shall be per Georgia Code.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3727, § 1)
SPECIAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of selected Special Acts relating to the county and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Year Page Section  Section
these Acts
1953 2054 2 1.1
3 1.3
4 1.4
5 1.5
6 1.6
7 1.7
8 1.8
9 1.9
10 1.10
11 1.11
12 1.12
1955 2040 3 1.9
4 1.10
1962 2738 1 1.7
1965 710 1 3.71
2 3.72
2918 1 2.21
2 2.22
3 2.23
4 2.24
1968 3418 1 1.2
1969 3677 2 1.8
1972 2977 1 2.51
2 2.52
3 2.54
4 2.55
5 2.56
6 2.57
2981 1 3.21
2 3.22
3 3.23
4 3.24
5 3.25
6 3.26
7 3.27
8 3.28
9 3.29
10 3.30
11 3.31
12 3.32
13 3.33
14 3.34
15 3.35
16 3.36
17 3.37
18 3.38
19 3.39
20 3.40
21 3.41
22 3.42
23 3.43
24 3.44
25 3.45
26 3.46
27 3.47
28 3.48
29 3.49
30 3.50
31 3.51
32 3.52
1975 3664 1 2.22
1976 1821 1 4.1
4005 1 2.53
1980 3727 1 1.1
1984 3727 1 4.5
1992 5381 1 1.5
1993 3754 1 4.2
2 4.3
3 4.4
