Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Incorporation, art. I.
Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Ordinances, City of Lavonia, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1995, § 1.04.010)
Charter reference— Similar provisions, § 2.26.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances of the city, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
Charter. The term "Charter" shall mean the Charter of the city, as it now exists or as it may be amended in the future.
City. The terms "the city" and "this city" shall be construed as if the term "of Lavonia" followed them.
City council and council. Whenever the terms "city council" and "council" are used, they shall be construed to mean the City Council of the City of Lavonia, Georgia.
Code and this Code. Whenever the terms "Code" and "this Code" are referred to without further qualification, they shall mean The Code of Ordinances, City of Lavonia, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done, a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which such notice is given, or such act is done shall be counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
County. The terms "the county" and "this county" shall mean the County of Franklin.
Gender. A term importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Joint authority. All terms giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Number. A term importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing. A term importing the plural number only may extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation, and the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Or and and. The term "or" may be read as the term "and," and the term "and" may be read as the term "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, organizations, companies, firms, partnerships, trusts and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property, except real property defined in this section.
Preceding and following. The terms "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, any lake or stream, and any street, avenue or thoroughfare.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall; may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The terms "the state" and "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant and occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Terms used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Title of officer, employee, department, board, commission or agency. Whenever the title of an officer, employee, department, board, commission or agency is given, it shall be construed as though the phrase "of the City of Lavonia, Georgia" were added.
Written and in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing, duplicating, handwriting or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1995, § 1.04.020)
Sec. 1-3. - Section catchlines and other headings.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid because of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading to any chapter, article or division.
Sec. 1-4. - History notes.
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
Sec. 1-5. - Editor's notes and references.
The editor's notes, Charter references, cross references and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Certain actions and ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any administrative ordinance of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of city officers or employees;
(5)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the council to any person;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes for such improvements;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
(11)
Any ordinance relating to rezoning or amendments to a zoning map;
(12)
Any ordinance fixing ad valorem taxes or providing for the levying or collecting of ad valorem taxes;
(13)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code establishing personnel policies and procedures or a retirement plan for the city employees, and amendments thereto;
(14)
Any ordinance establishing or providing for participation in a regional development center or other intergovernmental body;
(15)
Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for subject matters not included in this Code; or
(16)
Any ordinance establishing or imposing any rates, charges or fees for utility services or connections or for any other purpose.
(b)
All such actions and ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1995, § 1.04.030)
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1995, § 1.04.040)
Sec. 1-9. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by their omission from affected reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances, as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the city council.
(b)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used:
Be It Ordained by the City Council of the City of Lavonia, Georgia, that The Code of Ordinances, City of Lavonia, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered ____________, which said section reads as follows:….
The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(d)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in substantially the following language:
Be It Ordained by the City Council of the City of Lavonia, Georgia, that section ____________ of The Code of Ordinances, City of Lavonia, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:….
The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(Code 1995, § 1.04.050)
Sec. 1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by their omission from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing sections or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ____________ to ____________" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted in the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Official time.
Whenever certain hours are named in this Code, they shall mean eastern standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
(Code 1995, § 1.04.060)
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or in any ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of that provision of this Code or that ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $3,500.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or work on the public streets or public works of the city for a term not exceeding 90 days, subject to all limitations contained in the Charter of the city. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's Charter or Code.
(Code 1995, § 1.08.010)
