ARTICLE IX-C. - DEKALB FILM, MUSIC AND DIGITAL ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSION[15]

Footnotes:
--- (15) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 16-06 , Pt. I, adopted May 10, 2016, enacted new provisions designated as art. X, §§ 2-260—2-262. Inasmuch as art. X, art. IX-A and art. IX-B already exist, said provisions have been redesignated as art. IX-C, §§ 2-420—2-422, at the discretion of the editor, in order to conform to the Code format.

Sec. 2-420. - Creation and composition.
(a)
The DeKalb Film, Music, and Digital Entertainment Commission will be composed of key stakeholders who are professionals in the film, music, and entertainment industries.
(b)
The film, music, and digital entertainment commission will work closely with DeKalb County and Decide DeKalb to help market and attract film, music entertainment production and supporting industries.
(c)
The film, music, and digital entertainment commission shall be composed of nine (9) members and one (1) ex officio member.
(d)
Each of the following organizations shall submit one (1) recommended individual to the chief executive officer for nomination and confirmation by the board of commissioners. The chief executive officer may act on this recommendation or request an additional candidate for consideration.
(1)
Georgia Game Developers Association.
(2)
Georgia Film Academy.
(3)
Georgia Music Partners.
(4)
Georgia Production Partners.
(5)
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists, and Allied Crafts of the United States.
(6)
Screen Actors Guild.
(7)
Studio Infrastructure Alliance.
(8)
Media Education Foundation of Georgia.
(9)
Georgia State University.
(10)
Georgia Piedmont Technical College.
Nominees should be individuals actively involved in education related to or production, promotion and/or support of motion pictures, television series, commercials, music, music videos, digital production, interactive games and animation. The chief executive officer may act on any recommendation or request additional candidate(s) from the same organization for consideration. The commission member from the Georgia Film Academy shall be an advisory, non-voting, ex officio member of the commission.
(e)
Each entertainment commission member shall preferably be a resident of DeKalb County, shall serve a two-year term, and may be appointed to serve successive terms.
( Ord. No. 16-06 , Pt. I, 5-10-16; Ord. No. 16-12 , Pt. I, 11-7-16)
Sec. 2-421. - Film, music and digital entertainment commission powers and meetings.
(a)
The DeKalb Film, Music, and Digital Entertainment Commission is authorized to:
(1)
Work closely with Decide DeKalb and DeKalb County, providing leadership and strategic direction on issues related to the film, music recording and production, and entertainment industries;
(2)
Assist Decide DeKalb and DeKalb County with the identification and marketing of ideal sites for filming, film production, music recording and production, and other entertainment purposes;
(3)
Provide leadership for the development of a film, music, and entertainment strategic plan for DeKalb County;
(4)
Make recommendations regarding policy and procedural changes that would improve DeKalb's business climate to grow the film, music, and entertainment industries;
(5)
Serve as ambassadors to DeKalb County and the Metropolitan Atlanta region;
(6)
Develop an annual work program in furtherance of their mission; and
(7)
Undertake all necessary and appropriate activities pursuant to their mission, subject to budgetary constraints.
(b)
Facilitate industry training and education based in DeKalb County.
(c)
The film, music and entertainment commission will elect a chair, vice-chair, and secretary to preside over the meetings and keep minutes. The entertainment commission shall meet on a quarterly basis and as needed at other times.
(d)
The film, music and entertainment commission chair may move to remove a commission member if he or she fails to attend three (3) consecutive regular meetings. This motion must be approved by a majority of the entertainment commission.
( Ord. No. 16-06 , Pt. I, 5-10-16)
Sec. 2-422. - Staffing and budget.
DeKalb County will partner with Decide DeKalb to ensure the film, music and digital entertainment commission maintains appropriate staffing to perform its essential functions. Annually, the film commission shall recommend to the board of commissioners budgetary expenditures to enable the work of the entertainment commission and/or develop, enhance, promote, improve or encourage film, music and entertainment production within DeKalb County. Such proposals shall be consistent with an adopted work program, and may be funded at the discretion of the governing authority, using revenue in the tourism promotion fund.
( Ord. No. 16-06 , Pt. I, 5-10-16)
Secs. 2-423—2-449. - Reserved.
