DIVISION 2. - SEWER CONSTRUCTION AND ASSESSMENTS FOR NEW DEVELOPMENTS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-05 , Pt. I, adopted Nov. 14, 2017, repealed Div. 2 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Div. 2, §§ 25-176—25-193 pertained to sewer construction and assessments, and derived from the 1976 Code, §§ 6-2092—6-2109; Ord. No. 89-16, § 2, adopted April 11, 1989; Ord. No. 91-27, adopted Nov. 12, 1991; and Ord. No. 92-20, adopted July 28, 1992.

Sec. 25-176. - Compliance with agreements.
The operation of the sanitary sewer system shall remain in compliance with all sanitary sewer usage agreements between the county and other county and municipal governments and agencies.
( Ord. No. 17-05 , Pt. I, 11-14-17)
Sec. 25-177. - Sanitary sewer main extensions.
(a)
The county sanitary sewer main extension policy shall apply to the extension or replacement of existing sanitary sewer mains on existing county roads or other dedicated rights-of-way to serve new developments. A developer may request the application of this policy if a project site is not adjacent to an existing main or the existing main is inadequate to serve the proposed development.
(b)
The developer may apply for preapproval of the sewer main extension application with the understanding that such reimbursement shall be made only after the developer has complied with all the requirements of this section. Conversely, the developer may apply for reimbursement after complying with all the requirements of this section and such reimbursement shall be made on approved applications if funds are available for that purpose. Approval of all application requests shall be within the sole discretion of the governing authority.
(c)
Sanitary sewer mains approved and installed under this section shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1)
All materials shall meet the specifications of the water and sewer division of public works.
(2)
A sanitary sewer main design shall be prepared by and furnished to the county by a registered professional engineer licensed by the state.
(3)
The developer shall contract for the installation of the sewer lines and shall furnish the county a copy of the contract. When the work has been completed according to the county specifications and duly inspected by the county, the developer shall provide "as-built" drawings and any required easements of the sewer main installation to the county. As-built drawings shall be completed under the direction of an engineer/land surveyor licensed in the State of Georgia and sealed.
(4)
After the work has been completed and inspected to the satisfaction of the county, the developer shall provide a maintenance bond equal to ten (10) percent of the costs of the construction of such facilities. The developer may provide a letter of escrow or letter of credit acceptable to the county in lieu of the maintenance bond required in this section.
(5)
After receiving the maintenance bond, letter of escrow or letter of credit, the county shall reimburse the developer a sum equivalent to fifty (50) percent of the cost of the sewer main materials required to supply the proposed development. An eight-inch main will be considered as the minimum size main required to supply a development of any size. In the event the county's plans for future sewer service call for a sewer main to be installed larger than the size of the main required to supply the development, then the county may:
a.
If the size of sewer main planned by the county is fifteen (15) inch[es] or smaller, pay the difference in cost of the materials to install the size main required by the county plans.
b.
If the size of sewer main planned by the county is greater than fifteen (15) inch[es], pay the difference in both the cost of labor and materials to install the size main required by county plans.
(6)
The developer shall be required to maintain the sanitary sewer lines for a period of twelve (12) months. During this developer maintenance period, the county shall make inspections and instruct the developer by letter as to what corrections must be made, if any.
(7)
At the end of the twelve-month developer maintenance period, the county shall make a final inspection and notify the developer and the bonding company, if any, of any corrections to be made. If the work is acceptable at this time, the maintenance bond, letter of escrow or letter of credit shall be released.
(8)
If required corrections are not made within thirty (30) days of notice, the county shall have the authority to make these corrections at the expense of the bonding company. In cases where funds are being held under letter of credit or letter of escrow, the cost of making these corrections shall be drawn by the county from these funds, and the developer charged with any costs above the amount of such funds.
(9)
The county shall have the full authority to inspect and test all sanitary sewer mains installed under this section.
(10)
No use shall be made of such systems nor shall the county accept such systems until the developer has complied with all the requirements of this section and until satisfactory tests and inspections have been completed by the county.
(11)
In calculating county participation for material costs, the maximum material costs considered will be the county's contract price for like material.
(d)
Private sanitary sewer extensions will not be accepted for maintenance by the county unless materials used for installation are inspected and approved by the county prior to construction and are found to meet county specifications and unless the installation was inspected by the county during construction.
( Ord. No. 17-05 , Pt. I, 11-14-17)
Secs. 25-178—25-184. - Reserved.
