ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 13-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Hearing means a right of the DeKalb County Board of Health, its officials and employees, and persons and parties affected by an action or an intended action of the director or the board to present testimony, documentary evidence and argument as to why such action should or should not be taken. A hearing may be conducted by either the director, the director's designee or the board.
Notice of hearing means a written statement of the intended action to be taken and, where applicable, the substance of a specific charge alleging violation of any rule or statute to be considered at hearing.
In the case of a specific charge to be considered, where a license, permit, certificate or similar right is proposed to be denied, suspended or revoked, notice shall be given in person or by registered or certified mail to all interested parties; provided, however, in proceedings where the number of interested parties is so numerous as to make individual notice impracticable, notice shall be given by publication or by such other means reasonably calculated to afford actual notice as may be prescribed by the person conducting such hearing.
All notices shall state the time and place of hearing, the nature thereof and the matters of fact and law asserted and must be given at least five (5) days before the day set for hearing, unless the director or board determines that an imminent threat to the public health exists which requires shorter notice.
The affected parties may waive in writing the required notice of hearing.
(Code 1976, § 12-1021)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 13-27. - Denial, revocation or suspension of license, permit, etc.; written notice required.
No license, permit, certificate or similar right shall be denied, revoked, or suspended without first giving the affected party prior written notice of the intended action and affording the party an opportunity for hearing under the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 12-1022)
State Law reference— Revocation or suspension of licenses, permits, etc., O.C.G.A. § 31-5-2.
Sec. 13-28. - Effectiveness of rules and regulations.
All rules and regulations of the board shall be adopted, amended, revised or repealed after notice and hearing according to law. No rule or regulation shall become effective as law until thirty (30) days after its adoption, except in cases of emergencies constituting an imminent threat to the public, in which event such rule or regulation shall become effective upon adoption; but, in all cases, the board shall, as a part thereof, state the conditions found by it to justify such immediate effectiveness.
(Code 1976, § 12-1023)
State Law reference— Adoption procedures for rules,O.C.G.A. § 31-51-1; distribution of copies of rules, O.C.G.A. § 31-5-6.
Sec. 13-29. - Hearing—Procedure.
(a)
Where a hearing is required or afforded, all interested parties at such hearing shall have, upon request, compulsory process and shall have the right to adduce evidence and conduct cross-examination of all adverse witnesses. Any member of the board, its authorized officials or agents, or any attorney-at-law may administer oaths to all witnesses. No witness shall be abused while under examination or required to incriminate himself or herself.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 31-5-2(c).
(b)
The board is authorized and empowered to direct the director or the director's appointee to conduct hearings, issue compulsory process, administer oaths and submit findings and recommendations to the board. In such cases, the report of findings and recommendation shall be available to all interested parties, and such parties shall be entitled to file written exception thereto prior to final decision by the board.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 31-5-2(d).
(c)
Unless precluded by law, informal disposition may be made by the director and the affected party by stipulation, agreed settlement, consent order or default.
(d)
The order of proof in the conduct of a hearing should be somewhat flexible. Generally, the following procedure will be followed:
(1)
The representative of the board who has asserted the claim or makes the charge shall be heard first.
(2)
After the conclusion of the board representative's presentation, the opposing party should then be heard.
(3)
The giving of testimony by each respective party and the party's witnesses is subject to appropriate cross-examination.
(4)
The person conducting the hearing may call or recall a witness where necessary to provide a full and fair hearing of the matter.
(Code 1976, § 12-1024)
Sec. 13-30. - Same—Record.
A record of the hearing shall be kept and shall include, but not be limited to, all pleadings, motions and rulings; a summary of the oral testimony and all other evidence received or considered, except that a party shall have the right, at the party's own expense, to have the proceedings recorded and transcribed and may enter that transcript as part of the official hearing record; all staff data submitted to the director or board in connection with consideration of the case; all rulings, orders, reports and opinions entered by the director or board.
(Code 1976, § 12-1025)
Sec. 13-31. - Same—Confidential documents.
(a)
Documents, reports, data and other information obtained by the director or the board from any person, firm, corporation, municipality, county or other public authority and/or political subdivision, where such matters relate to secret processes, formulae, or where such matters were obtained on a confidential basis, shall be classified as confidential and privileged documents.
(b)
Upon receipt of any confidential and privileged document, the director or board shall label it "Confidential and Privileged—Not For Release." Such document shall be maintained in a secure file and shall be subject to disclosure only in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 31-5-5 and any other applicable statute.
(Code 1976, § 12-1026)
State Law reference— Confidentiality, etc., of documents, O.C.G.A. § 31-5-5.
Sec. 13-32. - Same—Final decision.
The board shall make a final decision in writing stating the underlying facts supporting the decision and shall send by certified mail a copy of such final decision to the parties affected thereby.
(Code 1976, § 12-1027)
Sec. 13-33. - Appeals.
(a)
Any party adversely affected by a final decision of the board may have a review thereof by appeal to the department under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 31-5-3 within thirty (30) days after rendition of the final order.
(b)
The petition of the aggrieved party shall state the reasons why and in what respect such party is aggrieved and the grounds to be relied upon as a basis for the relief demanded.
(c)
The appealing party shall file the original petition with the department and furnish the board with a copy thereof.
(d)
Upon receipt of the appeal by the board, the board shall forward a complete transcript of the hearing record to the department.
(Code 1976, § 12-1028)
Sec. 13-34. - Variances.
(a)
The regulations of the board shall be administered by the director who shall have the authority to grant a variance from the requirements of a regulation of the board as follows:
(1)
Where it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the director that strict compliance with a standard would result in practical difficulty to or undue hardship upon a property owner due to special conditions or causes;
(2)
Where the public or private interest in the granting of the variance is found by the director to clearly outweigh the interest of the application of uniform rules; and
(3)
Where such alternative measures are provided which, in the opinion of the director, will provide adequate public health and safety protection.
(b)
In granting a variance, the director may attach thereto any conditions which may be deemed advisable so that the purpose of this chapter will be served and the public health, safety and welfare secured.
(c)
Where a variance requested under the provisions of this section is denied, the property owner may be afforded a hearing as provided in section 13-27.
(Ord. No. 89-10, § 1(12-1029), 3-28-89)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 89-10, adopted Mar. 28, 1989, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of § 1(12-1029) as § 13-34 was at the discretion of the editor.
Secs. 13-35—13-50. - Reserved.
