ARTICLE VII. - RODENT CONTROL

Sec. 13-161. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicated a different meaning:
Business building means any structure, whether public or private, that is used for transaction of business, or rendering professional service for amusement, for the display, or sale or storage of goods, wares, merchandise, articles or equipment, including hotels, apartment houses, roominghouses, office buildings, public buildings, stores, theatres, markets, restaurants, grain processors, abattoirs, warehouses, workshops, garages; also outhouses, sheds, barns and other structures on premises used for business purposes.
Food means human food, grain and other food for animals and fowl.
Occupant means the individual, partnership, or corporation that uses or occupies any building, or a part thereof, whether the actual owner or tenant. In the case of a vacant building or any portion of a building, the owner, agent or other person having custody of the building shall have the responsibilities of an occupant of the building.
Owner means the actual owner of a building whether an individual, partnership or corporation and includes also the agents for building or other person having custody or managerial control. In the case of business buildings leased or rented with a clause in the contract specifying that the lessee or tenant is responsible for maintenance and repairs, the lessee or tenant will be considered the owner.
Rat control means block sanitation, distribution of rat poison or the setting of rat traps or such other methods as may be approved by the director to control the rat population.
Rat harborage means any condition under which rats may find shelter or protection, and shall include any construction or condition which permits the entrance of rats into any business building.
Ratproofing means a form of ratproofing which will prevent the ingress of rats into business buildings through the exterior walls, ground or first floors, basements, roofs, sidewalk gratings, sidewalk openings, foundations and other places that may be reached and entered by rats by climbing, burrowing or otherwise. The material to be used for ratproofing shall include cement concrete, brick masonry laid in cement concrete mortar, sheet metal, twenty-four or twenty-six gauge wire cloth of not less than nineteen-gauge having a mesh not larger than one-half (½) inch. All materials for rat-proofing shall be of such strength and thickness as to be impervious to rat-gnawing. Windows and other openings for light or ventilation that may be reached or entered by rats shall be covered with wire cloth screen incorporated in a metal frame conforming to the above gauge and dimensions. All exterior doors shall be protected against the gnawing of rats by the use of materials prescribed above. When closed, all exterior doors shall have a maximum clearance between doors, door sills and jambs of not exceeding three-eighths (⅜) of an inch.
(Code 1976, § 12-10001; Ord. No. 91-02, § 1, 1-8-91)
Sec. 13-162. - Rat eradication in business buildings generally.
(a)
The owners of all business buildings shall have these buildings ratproofed, and kept ratproofed in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
All business buildings hereafter erected, enlarged or repaired shall be ratproofed and kept ratproofed in accordance with this article.
(c)
Whenever conditions inside or under any business building provide harborage for rats such that the director deems it necessary for the prevention of rat-borne diseases that this harborage be eliminated, the director shall order the owner to install a cement concrete floor in the basement from masonry to masonry of this building, or order the owner to take such steps toward the elimination of the harborage as the director, in the director's discretion, deems essential. Failure to obey this order from the director after a given date shall be unlawful.
(Code 1976, § 12-10002; Ord. No. 91-02, § 1, 1-8-91)
Sec. 13-163. - Duties of occupants.
The occupant in charge of any business building shall at all times comply with the following regulations:
(1)
Store all garbage in a ratproof metal container of a type approved by the director, pending removal of this garbage.
(2)
Keep the buildings and premises free of trash, debris, rubbish, salvage or similar materials which provide nesting places and harborage or rats.
(3)
Maintain the buildings and premises in a rat-free condition by pursuing a program of a rat control approved by the director.
(Code 1976, § 12-10003; Ord. No. 91-02, § 1, 1-8-91)
Sec. 13-164. - Maintenance of ratproofing.
(a)
The occupants of all ratproofed buildings are required to maintain the premises in a ratproof condition and to repair all breaks that may occur in the ratproofing unless these breaks develop as the result of natural deterioration of the building.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for the occupant, owner, contractor, public utility company, plumber or other person to remove the ratproofing from any business building for any purpose and fail to restore it in satisfactory condition or to make new openings that are not closed or sealed against the entrance of rats.
(Code 1976, § 12-10004; Ord. No. 91-02, § 1, 1-8-91)
Sec. 13-165. - Who performs ratproofing.
The owner of any business building in complying with the provisions hereof relative to ratproofing, and the occupant of any business building in pursuing a program of rat control as required by section 13-163, may personally do the work, or may engage a contractor to do the work, or may have the work performed by the employment of such labor and the purchase of such material as may be necessary, all with the approval of the director.
(Code 1976, § 12-10004; Ord. No. 91-02, § 1, 1-8-91)
Sec. 13-166. - When private residences to be ratproofed.
When in the opinion of the director the condition of rat infestation on private residential premises is such as to be a potential menace to the public health because of rat bites and ratborne diseases, the owners of these premises shall assume the duties and obligations as set forth in section 13-163.
(Code 1976, § 12-10006; Ord. No. 91-02, § 1, 1-8-91)
Sec. 13-167. - Educational program.
The director shall carry out an educational program of rat control which will include block sanitation, methods of poisoning, trapping and other means for the destruction of rats and the control of ectoparasites on rats.
(Code 1976, § 12-10007; Ord. No. 91-02, § 1, 1-8-91)
Secs. 13-168—13-180. - Reserved.
