ARTICLE II. - COMPENSATION PLAN

Sec. 20-41. - Salary increases.
A salary increase shall not be considered as an automatic and routine right due an employee. All salary increases shall be based upon quality and quantity of work as reflected by performance appraisal and other recorded ratings, giving due consideration to length of service.
(Code 1976, § 2-3031)
Sec. 20-42. - Holiday pay.
All full-time employees shall be paid for a normal workday for each legal holiday established by the board of commissioners. Part-time employees shall be paid the pro rata part of a normal workday based on hours per day normally worked. Temporary employees, whether part-time or full-time, are not eligible for holiday pay. Employees required to work on a holiday shall be paid the regular day's pay. In addition, they may be given comparable time off at a subsequent date not later than twelve (12) months following the holiday or, upon approval of the chief executive or the chief executive's designee, may be paid for the holiday at a straight-time rate.
(Code 1976, § 2-3032)
Sec. 20-43. - Quality pay increase.
A quality pay increase is a pay increase equivalent to a step increase available to permanent full-time employees whose performance is of such superior quality above that ordinarily found in the type of position concerned that special pay recognition is warranted.
(Code 1976, § 2-3033)
Sec. 20-44. - Longevity pay.
Longevity pay is a benefit to employees for continued service to the county. Permanent employees shall receive additional compensation based upon satisfactory completion of successive years of service to begin after completion of eight (8) years of service. The method of compensation, as set forth in the administrative procedures to the personnel code, shall be determined by the chief executive with approval of funding by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1976, § 2-3034)
Sec. 20-45. - Separation pay.
modified
(a)
Annual leave payout. Upon separation from employment with the county, an employee who has completed at least six (6) months but less than ten (10) years of qualifying service may receive pay for accumulated unused annual leave up to a maximum of thirty (30) days at the employee's regular rate of pay. An employee who has completed at least ten (10) years of qualifying service may, upon separation from employment with the county, receive pay for accumulated unused annual leave up to a maximum of forty-five (45) days at the employee's regular rate of pay. No payment shall be made upon separation from employment for any amount of accumulated unused sick leave. (Note: Upon retirement after May 30, 1996, accumulated unused sick leave at the time of retirement shall be credited at the rate of twenty-one and one-half (21½) days for one-twelfth ( 1/12 ) year of service to determine total length of service for retirement benefit computation). Employees with annual leave reserve accounts created at the beginning of 2012 shall be subject to all terms and conditions of this section, except as specifically modified by subsection 20-165(g) of this chapter.
(b)
Annual leave payout; death of employee. Upon the death of a permanent employee, the beneficiary of such employee shall be paid for accumulated unused annual leave and any other final pay and allowances in the manner of other separations as indicated above.
(c)
Temporary and emergency employees. The appointment of any person as a temporary or emergency employee shall be automatically ter-minated upon the expiration of the maximum period of time that the person can be so employed. No further payment for services shall continue beyond the termination date.
(Code 1976, § 2-3035; Ord. No. 11-08, Pt. I, 6-28-11; Ord. No. 12-02, Pt. I, 2-28-12)
Sec. 20-46. - Hazardous duty pay.
Extra pay, as authorized in the county's compensation plan, shall be granted: to any employee qualified as a helicopter pilot, having appropriate and current Federal Aviation Administration licensing and medical certificates for the type of helicopters operated by the police department, and designated and serving in a position permitting active piloting duty on county-owned or county-leased aircraft; to any employee qualified as a bomb technician, having the appropriate certification from the Redstone Arsenal Missile and Munitions School and designated and serving in a position requiring active bomb disposal duty for the county; and to any employee qualified as a member of the special weapons and tactical unit, having advanced and extensive training and required certifications in the use of chemical munitions, explosive devices, automatic and specialized weapons, and related equipment.
(Code 1976, § 2-3036; Ord. No. 04-08, Pt. I, 8-10-04)
Sec. 20-47. - Employee suggestion program.
The employee suggestion program is established as a benefit program to compensate employees for suggestions that improve county operations, reduce costs, improve productivity and working conditions and/or improve employee morale. Employees can earn monetary payment for suggestions that are adopted and result in tangible savings (measurable, quantifiable cost savings or increase in county revenue) or intangible savings (have an overall benefit but cannot be measured in dollars). The method of compensation, as set forth in the administrative procedures to the personnel code, shall be determined by the chief executive officer with approval of funding by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 20-48. - Acting status pay.
Subject to approval by the chief executive officer in accordance with procedures established by the chief executive officer, an employee appointed to serve in an acting status in a position with a higher pay classification shall receive compensation at the next pay step that would afford the employee at least a five (5) percent pay increase for any time served in such acting status beyond sixty (60) days consecutively. Acting pay shall not be paid for more than nine (9) months without approval of the board of commissioners. For purposes of this section, an employee shall be deemed to be appointed to serve in an acting status when such appointment is made in writing by the department head, is submitted through the merit system director to the chief executive officer, and is approved by the chief executive officer. An acting appointment may only be made to a duly established position which is vacant.
(Ord. No. 97-12, § 1, 7-22-97)
Sec. 20-49. - Employee benefits.
(a)
The county governing authority is authorized to contract for group life, group health and/or dental insurance plans for the benefit of county officers and employees, in such groups or classifications as the governing authority deems proper, and is authorized to contribute to the cost of such insurance. No employee shall be compelled to take such insurance, but if the employee voluntarily elects to do so, the director of finance shall be authorized to deduct the employee's contribution from the salary or wages of the employee so insured.
(b)
Officers and employees shall cease to be eligible to participate in the group life, group health and dental benefits plans upon separation or termination from the county except as provided by federal law. Retirees may continue to be covered under group life, group health and dental plans, provided that the county adopts such plans. Surviving spouses and dependent children may continue to be covered under group life, group health and dental plans, provided that the county adopts such plans.
(c)
Participants in the group health and dental plans may change or terminate their participation during the annual enrollment period and as permitted by the terms of the insurance plans and federal law.
(d)
Any intentional false statement, deception or fraud in the enrollment application for the group life, group health and/or dental coverage will result in the loss of eligibility to participate in the plans.
(Ord. No. 01-07, Pt. I, 4-26-01)
Sec. 20-50. - Continuance of life, health and dental insurance while on leave of absence.
County officers and employees may continue their group life, group health and dental benefits insurance, if they so desire, while on leave of absence from the employ of the county, provided that such leave of absence is granted for one of the following reasons:
(1)
Military leave of absence.
(2)
Maternity leave of absence.
(3)
Sick leave of absence.
(4)
Court leave of absence.
(5)
Family and medical leave of absence.
(6)
Approved leave of absence.
(7)
As required by state or federal law.
(Ord. No. 01-07, Pt. I, 4-26-01)
Sec. 20-51. - Family and domestic partnership benefits.
As part of a county officer's or employee's compensation, the county may provide for group life, group health and dental insurance benefits for an employee's legal spouse, and children, as provided for in the insurance plan documents. As part of a county officer's or employee's compensation, the county may provide for group life, group health and dental benefits for a person declared as the officer's or employee's domestic partner under Article X of this chapter. Any employee who receives insurance coverage for a domestic partner shall notify the employee benefits division within ten (10) days of any change in or termination of the domestic partnership. Any employee who fraudulently obtains coverage for a person who is not a spouse, child, or a domestic partner, as defined under Chapter 20, Article X, shall reimburse the county for all costs involved in providing such coverage and be subjected to penalties as provided by the laws of the State of Georgia and the County of DeKalb.
(Ord. No. 01-07, Pt. I, 4-26-01)
Sec. 20-52. - Limitation of liability for benefits.
Nothing in this chapter shall create any broader, greater, different or other benefits than that provided in the contract of insurance or group plan, and the county shall not be liable for any life, health or dental benefits beyond that provided by the insurance contract or group plan.
(Ord. No. 01-07, Pt. I, 4-26-01)
Sec. 20-53. - Paid time off to vote.
new
Any employee in a position subject to this chapter shall, upon reasonable notice to his or her department head, be permitted to take time off from his or her county employment to vote in any municipal, county, state, or federal primary, election, or runoff for which such employee is qualified and registered to vote. Time off pursuant to this paragraph may be taken only once for each primary, election or runoff; may be taken only on election day or during the advance voting period prior to election day; shall not exceed four hours; and shall be paid time off. The department head may specify the hours during which the employee may take the time off provided for in this paragraph.
( Ord. of 9-13-2022 , Pt. I, 9-13-2022)
Secs. 20-54—20-65. - Paid time off to vote.
new
