ARTICLE III. - CERTIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS

Sec. 20-66. - Generally.
When the department head chooses to fill a vacancy, the department head may elect to fill the position through any of the methods of making appointments established under this chapter or administrative regulations. The chief executive shall adopt rules for the certification of eligible on the register and the appointment to fill vacancies, temporary and emergency appointments to permanent positions, emergency positions and reappointment.
(Code 1976, § 2-3071)
Sec. 20-67. - Time-limited appointments.
Time-limited appointments may be made to positions established for special programs or projects normally anticipated as being longer than six (6) months but not permanent in nature. Programs or projects requiring this type of appointment will normally be mandated by a federal or state program implemented for a specific purpose such as training, retraining or rehabilitation. Appointments may be made through competitive or noncompetitive procedures according to the program requirements.
(Code 1976, § 2-3072)
Sec. 20-68. - Review of discrimination charge.
Any applicant who believes unjust discrimination has been exercised in any phase of the pre-employment process because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, political affiliation, or opinion, age, sexual orientation, or handicap may appeal to the chief executive. Such charge must be filed in writing within one hundred eighty (180) days after the occurrence of the alleged discriminatory action, and must include the date, time, place, name(s) and specific charge of discrimination. The chief executive or the chief executive's designee shall investigate the alleged discriminatory action, and the chief executive's decision shall be binding.
(Code 1976, § 2-3073; Ord. No. 91-03, § 1, 2-26-91)
Sec. 20-69. - Employment of relatives.
(a)
The employment of relatives within the same department (as defined in this Code section 20-69) wherein there is a direct or indirect supervisory/subordinate relationship is prohibited. For purposes of this Code section, direct or indirect supervisory/subordinate relationship shall mean regular assignment in the line of supervision or chain of command, and shall exclude temporary assignment of less than five (5) consecutive business days.
(b)
"Department" solely for purposes of this Code section 20-69 shall mean the departments of the county, except that the following bureaus and divisions shall be considered separate "departments" for purposes of this Code section:
(1)
Police bureau;
(2)
Fire bureau;
(3)
Emergency medical services;
(4)
Animal control division;
(5)
Development division;
(6)
Fleet maintenance division;
(7)
Roads and drainage division;
(8)
Water and sewer division;
(9)
Sanitation division;
(10)
Any bureau or division designated by the chief executive officer as a separate "department" for purposes of this Code section.
(c)
The term "relatives" shall mean:
(1)
Father, mother, daughter, step-daughter, son, step-son, brother and sister of the whole blood or of the half-blood, grandparent, grandchild, first cousin, aunt, uncle, nephew and niece.
(2)
Husband, wife, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, son-in-law, and daughter-in-law.
These relationships shall include those arising from adoption.
(d)
The limitation on employment or promotion of relatives specified in this Code section shall apply to the continued employment of persons where the referenced relationships commence subsequent to their employment. This section shall apply only to filling of vacancies by promotion, hiring, transfer from separate departments (as defined in this Code section) and reappointments made on or after the effective date of this section. If an appropriate transfer cannot be arranged, the less senior employee shall resign or will be terminated from employment unless the more senior employee chooses to transfer or resign.
(e)
Seniority for purposes of this Code section shall mean total length of employment in positions covered by the DeKalb County Merit System.
(f)
Nothing in this Code section shall be interpreted to prohibit employment of relatives in different departments, as defined in this Code section.
(Ord. No. 96-07, § 1, 4-9-96)
Secs. 20-70—20-80. - Reserved.
