Chapter 14 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Disaster means any natural, technological, civil emergency or threat thereof that causes or has the potential to cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in a declaration of a state of emergency declared by a county, the governor or the President of the United States.
Emergency means any natural or manmade event requiring the activation of the local emergency operations plan.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Police services public safety;
(3)
Medical and health services;
(4)
Rescue;
(5)
Engineering;
(6)
Warning services;
(7)
Communications;
(8)
Defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
(9)
Emergency welfare services;
(10)
Emergency transportation;
(11)
Nuclear power plant protection;
(12)
Temporary restoration of public service utility services; and
(13)
Other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Local emergency management director means the person nominated by the local governments and appointed by the state emergency management director to implement the local emergency operations plan.
State emergency management director means the person appointed by the Governor to head the Georgia Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. of 7-12-2011, § I)
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 14-2. - Local organization for emergency management.
It is the desire and intent of the governing officials of the city that the city be a party of the county emergency management agency. The chairperson of the county commissioners, with the concurrence of the mayor, shall nominate, for appointment by the state emergency management director, a director of the county emergency management agency. Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the chairperson or governing body and shall serve at the pleasure of such chairperson or governing body. When appointed, the local emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the county emergency operations plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the city for approval, and thence to the state emergency management for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports, to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governmental officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g. financial, daily activities, etc.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating staff during periods of emergency, and under the supervision of the county governing officials.
(Ord. of 7-12-2011, § II)
Sec. 14-3. - County emergency management agency.
(a)
The county emergency agency shall be established around existing city and county departments. The emergency support functions, (ESFs) and department/agency assignments are as follows, department/agency assignment listed below are examples only. It is the responsibility of local governments to make assignments based upon local capabilities:
EXPAND
Emergency Support Function (ESF) Department/Agency
1. Transportation (P) County road department
(S) City public works
2. Communications (P) County 911/dispatch
(S) City police department
3. Public works and engineering (P) County road department
(S) City public works
4. Firefighting (P) County fire department
5. Emergency management (P) County emergency management agency
(S) County/city governments
6. Mass care, housing and human services (P) County DFACS
(S) Red Cross Chapter
7. Resource support (P) County emergency management
(S) County/city government
8. Public health and medical services (P) County public health
(S) Local hospital(s)
9. Search and rescue (P) County/fire rescue
10. Hazardous materials (P) County fire department
11. Agriculture and natural resources (P) County extension agent
(S) County emergency management agency
12. Energy (P) County emergency management agency
(S) Local utilities
13. Public safety and security services (P) County sheriff
(S) City police department
14. Long term recovery and mitigation (P) County emergency
(S) County government
15. External affairs (P) County government (PIO)
(S) City government (PIO)
  (As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.)
(b)
Heads of county departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to the emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes and/or SOPs will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Ord. of 7-12-2011, § III)
Sec. 14-4. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster or any other emergency which may effect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor, separately, or jointly with the chairperson of the county commission, or in their absence, their legally appointed successors may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter, shall have and may exercise for such periods as such emergency or disaster continues, the following powers:
(1)
To appropriate and expend funds, execute contracts, and to obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes;
(2)
To provide the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to the victims of any emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes or enemy attack and to direct and coordinate the development of emergency management plans and programs in accordance with the policies and plans set by the federal and state emergency management agencies;
(3)
To appoint, employ, remove, or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers;
(4)
To establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts during an emergency or disaster;
(5)
Subject to the order of the Governor or the chief executive of the political subdivision, to assign and make available for duty the employees, property, or equipment of the subdivision relating to firefighting, engineering, rescue, health, medical and related services, and to police, transportation, construction, and similar items or services for emergency management purposes, within or outside of the physical limits of the subdivision;
(6)
In addition to the heretofore stated powers and authorities, to acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease, or otherwise, sites required for installation of temporary housing units for disaster victims; and to enter into whatever arrangements, including purchase, of temporary housing units and payment of transportation charges, which are necessary to prepare or equip such sites to utilize the housing units.
(Ord. of 7-12-2011, § IV)
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 14-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the City of Hiram, Georgia, performing emergency functions pursuant to this ordinance, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees. Immunity does not apply in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith.
(Ord. of 7-12-2011, § V)
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-35.
Sec. 14-6. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as an offense.
(Ord. of 7-12-2011, § VI)
Sec. 14-7. - Liberality of construction.
This chapter shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Ord. of 7-12-2011, § VII)
Sec. 14-8. - Unlawful acts during emergencies.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency management corps in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
Do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy; imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this city; or prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection of any such inhabitant.
(3)
Wear, carry or display without authority any mark or identification specified by the emergency management agency.
