ARTICLE XI. - GARAGE SALES

Sec. 12-381. - Garage sales and rummage sales.
(a)
Sales commonly known as garage sales or rummage sales, conducted on residential property, shall be subject to the following rules and regulations:
(1)
These sales shall be conducted only by the owner or tenant of the residential property used.
(2)
Such sales shall be allowed a maximum of two times during a calendar year on one residential lot. No such sales shall be conducted for a longer period than 72 hours consecutively.
(3)
No wares, goods, or merchandise shall be advertised or offered for sale, or swap, or given away, except goods, wares, and merchandise owned by the property owner or the tenant conducting the sale.
(4)
No goods, wares, or merchandise shall be purchased by the owner or tenant for the purpose of selling, swapping, or giving away same at such a sale.
(5)
Any person desiring to conduct such a sale shall notify the city clerk no later than 12:00 noon of the day preceding the sale. The city clerk or his authorized representative shall issue a permit to the person to conduct a sale upon the payment of a permit fee as fixed from time to time by the governing authority if the applicant otherwise meets the requirements of this section. This fee shall be in lieu of any other fees or business taxes in this Code.
(6)
Sales for religious and charitable purposes shall be exempt from the payment of a permit fee, but shall register with the city at least 48 hours prior to the sale and shall comply with all other provisions of this section; provided that goods owned by a member of such organization and donated to such sale shall satisfy the requirements of subsection (a)(3) of this section.
(7)
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a garage sale or rummage sale without first obtaining a permit as described herein, or in such a manner as to violate any of the provisions of this section, and the city manager is authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this section.
(b)
Each yard sale may erect a maximum of three signs, one on the property where the sale is to occur and two additional signs for directional purposes. All such signs shall be erected only on private property with the approval of the owner or occupant of that property.
Secs. 12-382—12-399. - Reserved.
