ARTICLE V. - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 657), p. 4912, establishing a county economic authority. The absence of a subsequent history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act may be referred to as the "Rabun County Economic Development Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Legislative purpose.
The purpose of this Act is to provide for the economic development of Rabun County, to develop and promote for the public good and general welfare infrastructure, trade, commerce, business, industry, research, training support services, eleemosynary institutions, and employment opportunities and promote the general welfare of this state by creating a climate favorable to the location of new industry, trade, business, commerce, research, training support services, and eleemosynary institutions and the development of existing industry, trade, business, commerce, research, training support services, and eleemosynary institutions within Rabun County.
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the Rabun County Economic Development Authority.
(2)
"Cost of the project" or "cost of any project" means and includes:
a.
All costs of acquisition (by purchase or otherwise), construction, assembly, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation incurred in connection with any project or any part of any project;
b.
All costs of real property, fixtures, or personal property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project or for any facilities related thereto, including, but not limited to, the cost of all land, estates for years, easements, rights, improvements, water rights, connections for utility services, fees, franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, and certificates; the cost of securing any such franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, or certificates; and the cost of preparation of any application therefor and the cost of all fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, and other property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project;
c.
All interest and other financing charges and loan fees and all interest on revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority which accrue or are paid prior to and during the period of construction of a project and during such additional period as the authority may reasonably determine to be necessary to place such project in operation;
d.
All costs of engineering, surveying, and architectural and legal services and all expenses incurred by engineers, surveyors, architects, and attorneys in connection with any project;
e.
All expenses for inspection for any project;
f.
All fees of fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees for bondholders under any trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument or agreement; all expenses incurred by any such fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees; and all other costs and expenses incurred relative to the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations for any project;
g.
All fees of any type charged by the authority in connection with any project;
h.
All expenses of or incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of any project;
i.
All costs of plans and specifications for any project;
j.
All costs of title insurance and examinations of title with respect to any project;
k.
Repayment of any loans made for the advance payment of any part of the foregoing costs, including interest thereon and any other expenses of such loans;
l.
Administrative expenses of the authority and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to any project or the financing thereof or the placing of any project in operation; and
m.
The establishment of a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, or such other funds or reserves as the authority may approve with respect to the financing and operation of any project and as may be authorized by any bond resolution, trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument or agreement pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority may be authorized. Any cost, obligation, or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority.
(3)
"Project" means the acquisition, construction, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation of land, interests in land, buildings, structures, facilities, or other improvements located or to be located within Rabun County, and the acquisition, installation, modification, renovation, rehabilitation, or furnishing of fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, or other property of any nature whatsoever used on, in, or in connection with any such land, interest in land, building, structure, facility, or other improvement, all for the essential public purpose of the development of trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities in Rabun County. A project may be for any industrial, commercial, business, office, parking, distribution, retail, eleemosynary, research, training, testing, service, agribusiness, communications, professional, transportation, or other similar use, or a public infrastructure use directly supporting the development of trade, commerce, and industry, provided that a majority of the members of the authority determine, by a duly adopted resolution, that the project and such use thereof would further the public purpose of this Act.
(4)
"Revenue bonds" or "bonds" means any bonds of the authority which are authorized to be issued under the Constitution and laws of Georgia, including refunding bonds but not including notes or other obligations of the authority.
Sec. 4. - Creation of authority.
(a)
There is created the Rabun County Economic Development Authority which shall be a body corporate and politic and is declared to be a public corporation created for the economic development of Rabun County and for the improvement of the general welfare of the people of Rabun County and the State of Georgia. The authority shall have a board of directors which shall consist of the members of the Development Authority of Rabun County, created pursuant to the authority of the "Development Authorities Law," Chapter 62 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.], and activated pursuant to an activating resolution of the Board of Commissioners of Rabun County on April 27, 1971, and the chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Rabun County. The directors shall elect one of their members as chairman and another as vice chairman and shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer, either of whom may but need not be a director. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
(1)
The provisions of Code Section 45-10-3 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3] shall apply to all directors of the authority, and a director of the authority shall not engage in any transaction with the authority.
(2)
The provisions of paragraph (9) of Code Section 45-10-3 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3] and paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be deemed to have been complied with and the authority may purchase from, sell to, borrow from, loan to, contract with, or otherwise deal with any director or any organization or person with which any director of the authority is in any way interested or involved, provided (A) that any interest or involvement by such director is disclosed in advance to the directors of the authority and is recorded in the minutes of the authority, (B) that no director having a substantial interest or involvement may be present at that portion of any authority meeting during which discussion of any matter is conducted involving any such organization or person, and (C) that no director having a substantial interest or involvement may participate in any decision of the authority relating to any matter involving such organization or person. As used in this paragraph, the term "substantial interest or involvement" means any interest or involvement which reasonably may be expected to result in a direct financial benefit to such director as determined by the authority, which determination shall be final and not subject to review.
Sec. 5. - Powers of authority generally.
(a)
The authority shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this Act, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(1)
To bring and defend actions;
(2)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(3)
To make and execute contracts, agreements, and other instruments necessary or convenient to exercise the powers of the authority or to further the public purpose for which the authority is created, including, but not limited to, contracts for construction of projects, leases of projects, contracts for sale of projects, agreements for loans to finance projects, and contracts with respect to the use of projects;
(4)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character, or any interest therein, in furtherance of the public purpose of the authority;
(5)
To finance (by loan, grant, lease, or otherwise), construct, erect, assemble, purchase, acquire, own, repair, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, modify, maintain, extend, improve, install, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate, or manage projects and to pay the cost of any project from the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority or any other funds of the authority, or from any contributions or loans by persons, corporations, partnerships (whether limited or general), or other entities, all of which the authority is authorized to receive, accept, and use;
(6)
To borrow money to further or carry out its public purpose and to execute revenue bonds, notes, other obligations, leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of its revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, loan agreements, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, and such other agreements or instruments as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to evidence and to provide security for such borrowing;
(7)
To issue revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority and use the proceeds thereof for the purpose of paying, or loaning the proceeds thereof to pay, all or any part of the cost of any project and otherwise to further or carry out the public purpose of the authority and to pay all costs of the authority incidental to, or necessary and appropriate to, furthering or carrying out such purpose;
(8)
To make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or to any other source, whether public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance in furtherance of the authority's public purpose and to accept and use the same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by such federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or other source;
(9)
To enter into agreements with the federal government or any agency thereof to use the facilities or services of the federal government or any agency thereof in order to further or carry out the public purposes of the authority;
(10)
To contract for any period, not exceeding 50 years, with the State of Georgia, state institutions, or any municipal corporation or county or authority or other political subdivision of this state for the use by the authority of any facilities or services of the state or any such state institution, municipal corporation, or county or authority or for the use by any state institution or any municipal corporation or county or authority of any facilities or services of the authority, provided that such contracts shall deal with such activities and transactions as the authority and any such political subdivision with which the authority contracts are authorized by law to undertake;
(11)
To extend credit or make loans to any person, corporation, partnership (whether limited or general), or other entity for the costs of any project or any part of the costs of any project, which credit or loans may be evidenced or secured by loan agreements, notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, or such other instruments, or by rentals, revenues, fees, or charges, upon such terms and conditions as the authority shall determine to be reasonable in connection with such extension of credit or loans, including provision for the establishment and maintenance of reserve funds; and, in the exercise of powers granted by this Act in connection with any project, the authority shall have the right and power to require the inclusion in any such loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, or other instrument of such provisions or requirements for guaranty of any obligations, insurance, construction, use, operation, maintenance, and financing of a project, and such other terms and conditions, as the authority may deem necessary or desirable;
(12)
Whenever revenue bonds of the authority have been validated as provided in this Act, to issue, from time to time, its notes in anticipation of the issuance of such bonds as validated and to renew, from time to time, any such notes by the issuance of new notes, whether the notes to be renewed have or have not matured. The notes may be authorized, sold, executed, and delivered in the same manner as bonds. As with its bonds, the authority may sell such notes at public or private sale. Any resolution or resolutions authorizing notes of the authority or any issue thereof may contain any provisions which the authority is authorized to include in any resolution or resolutions authorizing bonds of the authority or any issue thereof; and the authority may include in any notes any terms, covenants, or conditions which it is authorized to include in any bonds. Validation of such bonds shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of the notes, but it shall not be required that such notes be judicially validated. Bond anticipation notes shall not be issued in an amount exceeding the par value of the bonds in anticipation of which they are to be issued;
(13)
As security for repayment of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority, to pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate, or otherwise encumber any property of the authority (including, but not limited to, real property, fixtures, personal property, contracts, rights, and revenues or other funds) and to execute any lease, trust indenture, trust agreement, agreement for the sale of the authority's revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, or other agreement or instrument as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the authority, to secure any such revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, which instruments or agreements may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default in any obligation of the authority, either in payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest or in the performance of any term or condition contained in any such agreement or instrument. The State of Georgia, on behalf of itself and each county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district therein, waives any right it or such county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district may have to prevent the forced sale or foreclosure of any property of the authority upon such default and agrees that any agreement or instrument encumbering such property may be foreclosed in accordance with law and the terms thereof;
(14)
To receive and use the proceeds of any tax levied by Rabun County or any municipal corporation within Rabun County to pay the costs of any project or for any other purpose for which the authority may use its own funds pursuant to this Act;
(15)
To make, receive, and administer gifts, gratuities, grants, and devises of money and property of any kind and to administer trusts;
(16)
To use and operate any real property, personal property, or fixtures or any interest therein and to carry on any commercial activity in connection therewith or to rent or lease such property to or from others or make contracts with respect to the use and operation thereof, or to sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or grant options for any such property in any manner as it deems to the best advantage of the authority and the public purpose thereof;
(17)
To acquire, accept, or retain equitable interests, security interests, or other interests in any real property, personal property, or fixtures by loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, pledge, conveyance, contract, lien, or other consensual transfer in order to secure the repayment of any moneys loaned or credit extended by the authority;
(18)
To appoint, select, and employ engineers, surveyors, consultants, fiscal advisors, architects, planners, fiscal agents, attorneys, and others and to fix their compensation and pay their expenses;
(19)
To encourage and promote the economic development of Rabun County and to make, contract for, or otherwise cause to be made long-range plans or proposals for the economic development of Raybun County;
(20)
To make and receive grants and incentives of money, property, or services designed to promote the growth of employment and the tax receipts in Rabun County;
(21)
To invest its funds, from whatever source derived, in such manner as it may deem appropriate, without further restriction, including without limitation equity investments in corporations or other legal entities including, without limitation, common stock, preferred stock, convertible debentures, stock options, and warrants;
(22)
To adopt bylaws governing the conduct of business by the authority, the election and duties of officers of the authority, and other matters which the authority determines to deal with in its bylaws;
(23)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of this state to public or private corporations which is not in conflict with the public purpose of the authority; and
(24)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers conferred by this Act.
(b)
The powers enumerated in each paragraph of subsection (a) of this section are cumulative of and in addition to those powers enumerated in the other paragraphs of subsection (a) of this section and elsewhere in this Act; and no such power limits or restricts any other power of the authority.
Sec. 6. - Revenue bonds.
(a)
Revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority shall be paid solely from the property (including, but not limited to, real property, fixtures, personal property, revenues, or other funds) pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated, or otherwise encumbered to secure or to pay such bonds, notes, or other obligations.
(b)
All revenue bonds, notes, and other obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the authority, adopted by a majority vote of the directors of the authority present at a regular or special meeting.
(c)
Revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bear such date or dates, shall mature at such time or times (not more than 40 years from their respective dates), shall bear interest at such rate or rates (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time), shall be subject to redemption on such terms, and shall contain such other terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, notes, or other obligations may permit or provide. The terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions contained in or provided or permitted by any resolution of the authority authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bind the directors of the authority then in office and their successors.
(d)
The authority shall have power from time to time and whenever it deems it expedient to refund any bonds by the issuance of new bonds, whether or not the bonds to be refunded have matured, and may issue bonds partly to refund bonds then outstanding and partly for any other purpose permitted under this Act. The refunding bonds may be exchanged for the bonds to be refunded, with such cash adjustments as may be agreed upon, or may be sold and the proceeds applied to the purchase or redemption of the bonds to be refunded.
(e)
There shall be no limitation upon the amount of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations which the authority may issue. Any limitations with respect to interest rates or any maximum interest rate or rates found in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, known as the "Revenue Bond Law," [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.] the usury laws of this state, or any other laws of this state shall not apply to revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority.
(f)
Bonds and other obligations of the authority shall be validated under and in accordance with Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, known as the "Revenue Bond Law" [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.].
(g)
Bonds issued by the authority may be in such form, either coupon or fully registered, or both coupon and fully registered, and may be subject to such exchangeability and transferability provisions, as the bond resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or any indenture or trust agreement may provide.
(h)
Bonds of the authority shall bear a certificate of validation. The signature of the clerk of the Superior Court of Rabun County may be made on the certificate of validation of such bonds by facsimile or by manual execution, stating the date on which such bonds were validated; and such entry shall be original evidence of the fact of judgment and shall be received as original evidence in any court in this state.
(i)
With respect to the validation of bonds, in lieu of specifying the rate or rates of interest which bonds to be issued by the authority are to bear, the notice to the district attorney or the Attorney General, the notice to the public of the time, place, and date of the validation hearing, and the petition and complaint for validation may state that the bonds when issued will bear interest at a rate not exceeding a maximum per annum rate of interest (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time) specified in such notices and petition and complaint or may state that, in the event the bonds are to bear different rates of interest for different maturity dates, none of such rates will exceed the maximum rate (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time) so specified; provided, however, that nothing in this Act shall be construed as prohibiting or restricting the right of the authority to sell such bonds at a discount, even if in doing so the effective interest cost resulting therefrom would exceed the maximum per annum interest rate specified in such notices and in the petition and complaint.
(j)
The terms "cost of the project" and "cost of any project" shall have the meaning prescribed in this Act whenever those terms are referred to in bond resolutions of the authority, in bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority, or in notices or proceedings to validate such bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority.
Sec. 7. - Authorized contents of agreements and instruments of authority generally; use of proceeds; subsequent issues.
(a)
Subject to the limitations and procedures provided by this Act, the agreements or instruments executed by the authority may contain such provisions not inconsistent with law as shall be determined by the board of directors of the authority.
(b)
The proceeds derived from the sale of all bonds, notes, and other obligations issued by the authority shall be held and used for the ultimate purpose of paying, directly or indirectly, as permitted by this Act, all or part of the cost of any project, or for the purpose of refunding any bonds, notes, or other obligations issued in accordance with this Act.
(c)
Issuance by the authority of one or more series of bonds, notes, or other obligations for one or more purposes shall not preclude it from issuing other bonds, notes, or other obligations in connection with the same project or with any other projects; but the proceeding wherein any subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations are issued shall recognize and protect any prior loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, or other agreement or instrument made for any prior issue of bonds, notes, or other obligations, unless in the resolution authorizing such prior issue the right is expressly reserved to the authority to issue subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations on a parity with such prior issue.
Sec. 8. - Obligations of authority not public debt of state or political subdivision thereof.
No bonds, notes, or other obligations of, and no indebtedness incurred by, the authority shall constitute an indebtedness or obligation of the State of Georgia or any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof, nor shall any act of the authority in any manner constitute or result in the creation of an indebtedness of this state or any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof. No holder or holders of any such bonds, notes, or other obligations shall ever have the right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of the state or county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof, nor to enforce the payment thereof against the state or any such county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision.
Sec. 9. - Constitutional authority for enactment of act; tax exemption.
This Act is enacted pursuant to authority granted the General Assembly by the Constitution of Georgia. The authority is created for nonprofit and public purposes; and it is found, determined, and declared that the creation of the authority and the carrying out of its corporate purposes is in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state and that the authority is an institution of purely public charity and will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the power conferred upon it by this Act; and for such reasons the state covenants with the holders from time to time of the bonds, notes, and other obligations issued under this Act that the authority shall not be required to pay any taxes of any kind or assessments imposed by this state or any counties, municipal corporations, political subdivisions, or taxing districts thereof upon any property acquired by the authority or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or leased by it or others or upon its activities in the purchase, use, sale, disposition, operation, or maintenance of any such property or on any income derived by the authority in the form of fees, recording fees, rentals, charges, purchase price, installments, or otherwise; provided, however, that the leasehold interests of private parties leasing property from the authority shall be subject to the taxes or assessments imposed by this state or any counties, municipal corporations, political subdivisions, or taxing districts, unless they are specifically exempted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors of the authority and the affirmative vote of the Board of Commissioners of Rabun County. The bonds, notes, and other obligations of the authority, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within this state. Deeds to secure debt and similar instruments given and recorded to support or to secure the bonds, notes, or obligations of the authority or to support or to secure obligations pledged in support of the bonds, notes, or obligations of the authority shall be exempt from all intangibles, intangibles recording, and other taxation within this state.
Sec. 10. - Construction of Act; applicability of the "Georgia Securities Act of 1973" [O.C.G.A. § 10-5-1 et seq.].
This Act shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof. The offer, sale, or issuance of bonds, notes, or other obligations by the authority shall not be subject to regulation under Chapter 5 of Title 10 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, known as the "Georgia Securities Act of 1973" [O.C.G.A. § 10-5-1 et seq.].
