ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Local referenda for abolishing local offices or shortening or lengthening term, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-11.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-96. - Duties and responsibilities of officers.
Each officer shall perform all duties required of the office by state law, the act establishing the board of commissioners, or county ordinance, and such other duties not in conflict therewith as may be required by the board of commissioners.
Sec. 2-97. - Employee policy and procedure manual adopted.
The county has compiled and maintains a manual representing a compilation of employee policies and procedures, the provisions of which, as amended from time to time, are incorporated in this article as if fully set forth herein.
Sec. 2-98. - Compensation of county employees.
The board of commissioners shall establish salaries and pay scales of all county officers and employees, except elected officials whose salaries are set by local or general law. In establishing county salaries and salary scales, the board shall take into consideration the prevailing compensation for similar services being paid by private industry and business in the county and by other counties within the state and the recommendations of the office holder or person having immediate supervision of the employee or class of employees. The decision and determination of the board in setting and establishing county salaries and salary scales shall be final.
Sec. 2-99. - Employment of county clerk.
The board of commissioners is authorized to employ a clerk to be compensated in an amount to be determined by the board, to be paid from county funds. It shall be the duty of the clerk to keep the minutes and records of all proceedings of the board and to discharge such other duties as the board may prescribe.
Sec. 2-100. - Employment of county attorney.
The board of commissioners shall have the authority to employ a competent attorney-at-law as county attorney, and whenever it is deemed necessary, the board may employ additional counsel to assist the county attorney, to advise the board and represent the county in such matters as the board may direct, which county attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the board and shall be compensated from county funds as approved by the board.
Secs. 2-101—2-128. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COUNTY DEPARTMENTS

Sec. 2-129. - Authority regarding organization of county government.
The internal organization of the county government shall be established and altered by the board of commissioners. Existing departments may be abolished and their functions transferred to other departments, additional departments may be created, and any two or more departments may be consolidated.
Sec. 2-130. - Duties and responsibilities of department heads.
All department heads shall:
(1)
Be immediately responsible to the county administrator, specifically, and to the board of commissioners, generally, for the effective administration of their respective departments and all activities assigned thereto;
(2)
Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field and initiate, with the approval of the board of commissioners, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the county and to the public;
(3)
Submit reports quarterly or as otherwise required by the board of commissioners of the activities of their respective departments to the board of commissioners;
(4)
Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for property control of departmental activities and to form a basis for the periodic reports to the board of commissioners;
(5)
Prepare budgets annually, or as otherwise directed, as required by the board of commissioners;
(6)
Have power to appoint and remove, subject to personnel regulations, all subordinate employees;
(7)
Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all county property and equipment used in their respective departments; and
(8)
Be responsible for ensuring the preservation and accurate supplementation of any copy of this Code assigned to the department supervised by the department head.
Sec. 2-131. - Departmental cooperation.
Each department shall cooperate with every other department and shall furnish, upon the direction of the board of commissioners, any other department such service, labor and materials as may be requisitioned by the head of the department.
Secs. 2-132—2-160. - Reserved.
