PART I - RELATED LAWS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, which created and established the board of commissioners of roads and revenues for the county. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. These laws were provided by the county.

Section 1. - Board of commissioners.
There is hereby created a Board of Commissioners of Quitman County to be composed of five members. The members of said board shall be elected by the voters of the entire county. Effective with the terms of office of members of the board elected in the general election of 1976, the initial terms of office of the three members of the board receiving the highest number of votes in their individual posts shall be for a period of four years and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified and the initial terms of office of the remaining two members of the board shall be for a period of two years and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. Following such initial terms of office, the terms of office of all members of the board shall be for a period of four years and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. For the purpose of electing members to the board, positions on the board shall be numbered as posts number 1 through 5. In all elections for the office of Commissioner of Quitman County, candidates offering for election to the board shall designate by number those posts for which they offer. No person shall be eligible to run for membership on said board unless he shall have attained the age of 21, has been a resident of the county for 12 months, and is qualified to vote for members of the general assembly. The provisions of this section shall not affect the terms of office of members of the board of commissioners who are in office on July 1, 1975, but such members shall continue to serve until the expiration of the terms of office for which they were elected.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 1; 1953 Ga. Laws Nov.—Dec. Sess. (Act No. 681), page 2607, § 1; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 6), page 2013, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 255), page 3351, § 1)
Section 2. - Powers.
A majority of said commissioners shall be required to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the board, when sitting for county purposes, shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the following subject matters: First, in governing and controlling all property of the county, as they may deem expedient according to law; second, in levying a general tax for general and a special tax for particular county purposes, according to the laws of this state; third, in establishing and changing election precincts and militia districts; fourth, in examining, auditing, settling and allowing all claims against the county; fifth, in examining and auditing the accounts of all officers having the care, management, keeping, collecting and disbursement of money belonging to the county or appropriated for its use and benefit, and bringing them to a settlement; sixth, in making such rules and regulations for the support of the poor of the county and promotion of health as are granted by law, or not inconsistent therewith; seventh, in altering, establishing, and abolishing roads, bridges and crossings, according to law.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 2)
Section 3. - Meetings; compensation.
The commissioners shall meet at such times as they may desire in order to transact the business of the board, and each commissioner shall be compensated in the amount of $10.00 per month.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 3)
Section 4. - Bond.
The commissioners, before entering upon their duties, shall each give bond with solvent securities for $500.00, payable to the Ordinary of Quitman County for the use of Quitman County, for the faithful performance of their duties and to secure the county for moneys ordered paid out and actually paid out not in compliance with the law. The premium on such bonds shall be paid by the county.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 4)
Section 5. - Vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs on the board through death, resignation or otherwise, the ordinary of Quitman County shall fill the vacancy by appointing a qualified individual to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term and until his successor is duly elected and qualified.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 5; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 6), page 2013, § 2)
Section 6. - Clerk.
(a)
The commissioners shall select a clerk who shall be a resident of the county and who shall not be a member of the board. The clerk shall receive for services as such an amount to be set by the board.
(b)
The duties of the clerk shall be:
(1)
To keep accurate and detailed minutes of the meetings of the commissioners;
(2)
To record the vote on all important orders passed;
(3)
To countersign all warrants for payments of debts contracted by the county;
(4)
To keep a cash book separate from the minute book;
(5)
To keep a separate account in said cash book of the various funds for which taxes were levied and collected;
(6)
To make entries in said book of all receipts and disbursements, showing for what purposes disbursed, and to whom paid.
(c)
The clerk shall take an oath to perform properly and legally the duties of office, to be administered by the chairman of the board, before the clerk shall enter upon his duties. The clerk shall hold office at the pleasure of the board and may be discharged at any time by a majority of the members of the board.
(d)
Effective January 1, 1989, or upon the date of a vacancy in the office of county treasurer if before January 1, 1989, the clerk shall perform all duties provided by law for the County Treasurer of Quitman County. The bond premiums of the clerk shall be paid by the county. The clerk shall not receive commissions, fees, or compensation other than the amounts set under subsection (a) of this section for performing the duties of county treasurer.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 6; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 210), page 4172, § 1)
Section 7. - Reports.
The members of the board shall, during their term of office, be exempted from road and jury duty. The board shall be required to render to the grand jury of the county at each regular term of the superior court a detailed statement of the financial affairs of the county, and a general report of their acts since their last report.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 7)
Section 8. - Duties of board.
On all matters coming before the board on which the board is required to act, including the approval of all purchases made in behalf of the county, it shall be necessary that all such actions receive the approval of a majority of the entire membership of the board. The chairman shall be entitled to cast a vote on any matter coming before the board which requires the members thereof to cast their vote for or against said question.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 8; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 6), page 2013, § 3)
Section 9. - Chairman.
The commissioners shall elect one of their number chairman who shall serve as such for the term he drawn [sic] on county funds necessary for the proper performance of business of the county.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 9)
Section 10. - Provisions of Act.
Nothing contained in this Act shall be construed as shortening or lengthening the term of office of the commissioners serving at the time this Act becomes effective. The provisions of this Act, however, shall govern the commissioners serving at the time it becomes effective, as well as future commissioners.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 10)
Section 11. - Effective date of Act.
This Act shall become effective immediately upon the passage and approval by the governor, or its otherwise becoming law.
(1953 Ga. Laws Jan.—Feb. Sess. (Act No. 316), page 2770, § 11; 1953 Ga. Laws Nov.—Dec. Sess. (Act No. 681), page 2607, § 2)
