Chapter 6 - CABLE TELEVISION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The provisions of this chapter are subject to the Federal Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984.
Cross reference— Poles and wires, § 19-61 et seq.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to grant franchises, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7).

Sec. 6-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Cable Television Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 810, § 1, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-2. - Purpose and policy.
The objectives of this chapter are:
(1)
To provide for the franchising, construction, installation, operation and regulation of cable television systems within the city;
(2)
To ensure quality television programming and reception at reasonable cost to local residents;
(3)
To limit cable television franchisees to a fair return on investment capital, so far as practicable; and
(4)
To secure thereby to local residents the opportunity for enhanced benefits of television media communications and technological advances in such media.
(Ord. No. 810, § 2, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-3. - Definitions.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used in this chapter shall be as follows:
Basic subscriber service means the transmission to subscribers of those television channel signals which a franchisee provides, including FCC mandated service and any discretionary service as determined by the franchisee, for the minimum charge offered by the franchisee, as limited by regulation by the commission.
Basic subscriber service rate means the fixed rate which the commission permits a franchisee to charge for basic subscriber service.
Cable television system means a system consisting of coaxial cables and other conductors and associated generation, reception, transmission and control equipment, under common ownership and control, designed to distribute to subscribers the signals of television broadcast stations and programs received via satellite, microwave, video tape, video disc or produced by the cable system.
Commission means the elected governing authority of the city.
Company and franchisee shall mean any person granted a franchise by the commission to construct, install and operate a cable television system pursuant to this chapter.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission.
Franchise and franchise agreement mean, respectively, the right or privilege granted to a company pursuant to this chapter to operate a cable television system and the legal document evidencing such grant of franchise.
Gross subscriber service revenues means all monthly service revenues received by a company from the operation of its cable television system within the city including, but not limited to, that portion of monthly revenues from pay television service retained by the company.
Pay television service means television service provided to subscribers other than basic subscriber service, at the option of the subscriber, for a charge in addition to the basic subscriber service rate.
Subscriber means any person whose premises are physically wired to receive transmissions from a cable television system.
(Ord. No. 810, § 3, 8-17-1984)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-4. - Franchise required.
No person shall be allowed to occupy or use the public streets, ways, alleys, places or easements within the city for the purpose of construction, installation or operation of a cable television system without first having been granted a franchise in the form of an agreement with the city, by the commission pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. No. 810, § 4, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-5. - Franchise rights subject to police powers.
A franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to the police power of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public; and the company shall be required to comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to such power.
(Ord. No. 810, § 5, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-6. - Duration of franchises.
The term of a franchise shall be ten years, unless sooner terminated by mutual agreement or pursuant to the forfeiture provisions hereof, and such franchise shall be renewable for successive terms of ten years so long as the commission shall deem such renewal to be in the public interest.
(Ord. No. 810, § 6, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-7. - Subject to provisions of ordinances, other laws.
A franchise, and any renewal thereof, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and amendments hereof and all laws, rules and regulations of the state and of the United States. All laws, rules and regulations of the state and of the United States shall be deemed to be a part of this chapter and shall be controlling in the event of any conflict, and this chapter and amendments hereof shall be deemed to be part of any franchise granted pursuant hereto and shall be controlling in the event of any conflict.
(Ord. No. 810, § 7, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-8. - Scope of franchise.
A franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be nonexclusive and shall grant to the company the right and privilege to construct, install, operate and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the public streets, ways, alleys, places and easements now laid out or dedicated and all such additions thereto in the city, such poles, wires, underground cables, conduits, and other television conductors and fixtures necessary for the operation and maintenance of a cable television system. The city expressly reserves the right to grant similar uses of such public streets, ways, alleys, places and easements to any other company at any time during the term of a franchise, and a franchise shall be restricted to the corporate territorial limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 810, § 8, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-9. - Use of existing poles.
A company shall use existing public utility poles for its distribution system so far as practicable, provided that satisfactory rental agreements can be obtained with the owner thereof. When the use of existing poles is not practicable or a satisfactory rental agreement cannot be obtained, a company may request that the commission authorize the company to erect and maintain its own poles, and if such authority is granted, the location and physical characteristics of such poles shall be subject to approval by the city manager or the commission.
(Ord. No. 810, § 9, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-10. - Poles and wires not to interfere with public use of streets.
(a)
A company's poles, cables and appurtenances shall be located, erected and maintained so as not to endanger persons or interfere with the public use of city streets, ways, alleys and places or with existing or new improvements the city may deem proper to make. At the request of the city a company shall move and relocate any of its installation including poles, at the company's expense, in order to avoid such interference. The city shall be the sole judge of what constitutes interference. Construction and maintenance of the cable television system, including house connections, shall be done in accordance with provisions of the National Electric Safety Code, the National Electrical Code and applicable ordinances of the city.
(b)
Upon the request of any private party holding an appropriate permit issued by the city, a company shall temporarily raise or lower its lines to permit the moving of any building or other structure, and the actual expense of the same shall be paid by the party requesting the same.
(c)
Installation and house connection hardware shall be uniform throughout the city, except that a company shall change its hardware and its installation procedure to implement improvements in the industry. This provision will not require a company to modify installations already made unless such existing installations provide inferior television reception.
(d)
In those areas where telephone and electric service lines are underground, a company shall place its cables and service lines underground unless approval to place the cable and service lines on poles is secured from the commission. The commission may authorize a company to place cables and service lines underground in areas where poles are located.
(Ord. No. 810, § 10, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-11. - Use of poles by city.
The city shall have joint use of any and all poles owned by a company, free of any expense therefor, for any lawful public purpose, provided that such use will not interfere with the free use and enjoyment of the company's own wires and fixtures, and the city shall hold the company harmless from any and all actions, causes of action, or damage directly or indirectly caused by the placing of the city's wires or appurtenances upon such poles.
(Ord. No. 810, § 11, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-12. - Repair of damage to public property.
(a)
In the maintenance and operation of its cable television system in the public streets, ways, alleys, places and easements, and in the course of any new construction or addition to its facilities, a company shall proceed so as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the general public; any opening or obstruction in the streets or other public places made by a company in the course of its operations shall be made only after having obtained written permission to do so from the city manager, and from the proper state official if a state-controlled right-of-way is involved. All such work shall be guarded and protected at all times by the placement of adequate signs and barriers, fences, or boardings, the bounds of which shall be clearly designated by appropriate warning lights during periods of dusk and darkness.
(b)
All work in any way necessitated by the business of a company which may involve the opening, breaking up or tearing up of a portion of a street, sidewalk or other part of any public property, shall be done and repaired in a manner approved by the city manager. Such repairs may be performed by the city at the expense of the company if mutually agreed upon by the city and the company or if the company refuses to repair the streets, sidewalks or other public property promptly or fails to repair the public property in a satisfactory manner.
(c)
Nothing in this chapter shall grant to a company any right of property in public property, and the city shall not be required to maintain any public property any longer than, or in any manner other than, the city's public business or needs may require.
(d)
In the event any public street, way, alley, place or easement or any portion thereof used by a company shall be vacated by the city or the use thereof discontinued by the city during the term of a franchise, the company shall immediately remove all of its facilities therefrom, except for buried cables unless the city specifically requires such buried cables to be removed; and upon the removal of such facilities, the company shall restore, repair or reconstruct the area where such removal has occurred to such condition as the city may require.
(Ord. No. 810, § 12, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-13. - Technical standards generally.
Installations shall be made and maintained so as not to interfere with television reception already in existence. Installation and maintenance of equipment shall be such that standard color signals transmitted to any subscriber receiver shall be essentially of the same quality as received at the antenna site. A company shall make all reasonable and practicable improvements in its services as advances in technology shall warrant, and shall make every reasonable effort to eliminate interferences in signals distributed to subscribers.
(Ord. No. 810, § 13, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-14. - Local office required.
A company shall maintain an office in the city which shall have an adequate staff of personnel and be open at least five days per week except holidays, and shall maintain a 24-hour telephone-answering service in the city. Such office shall have and maintain at all times adequate equipment and a sufficient supply of materials to assure prompt repairs to the system as needed.
(Ord. No. 810, § 14, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-15. - Insurance required.
A company shall indemnify, protect and save harmless the city at all times during the franchise term and any renewal thereof from and against losses and physical damages to property and bodily injury or death to persons, including payments made under any workmen's compensation law, which may arise out of or be caused by the erection, maintenance, presence, use or removal of attachments on poles within the city, or by any act of the company, its agents or employees arising out of the operations of the company. A company shall carry insurance with an insurer authorized to do business in this state to protect itself and the city from and against all claims, demands, actions, judgments, costs, expenses, and liabilities which may arise or result, directly or indirectly from or by reason of such loss, injury or damage. The minimum amounts of such general liability insurance shall be $50,000.00 for property damage per occurrence, $300,000.00 for personal injury per person and $500,000.00 for personal injury per occurrence. A company shall also carry liability insurance on its vehicles in minimum amounts of $25,000.00 for property damage per occurrence, $100,000.00 for personal injury per person, and $300,000.00 for personal injury per occurrence. Worker's compensation insurance shall be maintained as required by the laws of the state. All insurance required by this chapter shall be kept in full force and effect for the entire term of a franchise. Such policy or policies of insurance or a certified copy or copies thereof shall be filed with and subject to approval of the city manager. Each policy of insurance shall state therein that the city shall be indemnified and saved harmless from and against all losses, damages, actions, court costs and attorneys fees arising out of actions of the company, its officials, employees, agents and contractors in the construction, installation or maintenance of the cable television system, and that the insurance carrier shall give the city 30 days' advance notice of termination of any policy furnished hereunder. Further, a company shall indemnify, save harmless and defend the city against all copyright and patent infringement matters which may arise out of operation of the cable television system.
(Ord. No. 810, § 15, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-16. - Assignment or transfer of franchise.
A franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall not be assigned or transferred without prior approval of the commission, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. No. 810, § 16, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-17. - Annual report and audit.
(a)
At the end of each calendar year during the franchise term, a company shall have prepared by an engineer or an engineering firm qualified in cable communications and approved by the city an annual performance report, which shall be sufficient to ascertain the company's compliance with FCC technical standards and the quality of the company's overall performance. Such report shall summarize all subscriber complaints and their resolutions and shall be submitted to the commission on or before April 1 of each year. In the event that such report indicates that the franchisee is not providing a quality service consistent with FCC rules or that subscriber complaints are so numerous or unresolved as to indicate a poor quality service, the commission may declare a forfeiture of the franchise after reasonable notice and hearing.
(b)
At the end of each calendar year during the franchise term, a company shall have prepared by a certified public accountant an annual financial audit which shall be sufficient to ascertain the financial condition of the company and its profits and return on investment capital. Such audit report shall be submitted to the commission on or before April 1 of each year.
(Ord. No. 810, § 17, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-18. - Regulation of basic service tier rates and charges.
(a)
The city will follow the Federal Communications Commission rate regulations in the city's regulation of the basic service tier rates and the charges for related equipment, installation and services of any cable television system operating in the city, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions in the franchise agreement between the city and the franchisee.
(b)
In connection with regulation by the city pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the city will ensure a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
(Ord. No. 914, § 1, 9-1-1993)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 914, § 1, adopted Sept. 1, 1993, repealed former § 6-18 and added a new § 6-18 to read as herein set out. Former § 6-18 pertained to basic subscriber service rates and derived from Ord. No. 810, § 18, adopted Aug. 17, 1984.
Sec. 6-19. - Complaints and disputes.
A company shall adopt procedures for the investigation and resolution of complaints and disputes concerning the company's cable television operations, and such procedures shall be subject to approval by the commission. Upon approval, the company shall promptly furnish to each subscriber notice of such procedures. The company shall maintain a local office and agent for the purpose of investigating and resolving all complaints or disputes regarding bills, the quality of service, equipment malfunction and similar matters concerning the operation of the cable television system. A record will be made of all complaints received showing the name of the complaining party, the complaint, and the action taken to resolve the complaint. The resolution of such complaints shall be fair and equitable and shall be subject to review by the city manager. In the event that a complaint or dispute cannot be resolved between the company and the subscriber, the company or the subscriber shall have the right to refer the same to the city manager for decision, and the decision of the city manager shall be final.
(Ord. No. 810, § 19, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-20. - Franchise fee.
A company shall pay to the city a franchise fee equal to the maximum percentage now or hereafter permitted by the FCC, including any increases in such maximum fee as may be hereafter permitted by the FCC, of gross subscriber service revenues as defined hereinabove. Such fee shall be paid on a semi-annual basis, on or before July 31 for the period of January through June, and on or before January 31 for the period of July through December. In the event that such fee is not paid when due, the amount thereof shall bear interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum until paid.
(Ord. No. 810, § 20, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-21. - Forfeiture of franchise.
The city shall have authority after reasonable notice and hearing, to terminate and cancel any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, and declare a forfeiture of the same, in the event that a company:
(1)
Violates any provision of this chapter, as it may be amended from time to time or any rule, order, or determination of the commission made pursuant to this chapter except where such violation is committed without fault, or through excusable neglect;
(2)
Becomes insolvent or unable or unwilling to pay its debts or is adjudged bankrupt;
(3)
Attempts to evade any of the provisions of this chapter or the franchise or practices any fraud or deceit upon the city;
(4)
Fails to secure a certificate of compliance from the FCC or any other necessary license or permit within four months of the acceptance of a franchise;
(5)
Fails to exhibit substantial progress toward the completion of the construction of the system for a period of three consecutive calendar months; or
(6)
Fails to pay to the city the franchise fee provided hereinabove after written notice that a payment is overdue.
(Ord. No. 810, § 21, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-22. - Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)
The city shall have access at all reasonable hours to all of a company's plans, contracts, and engineering records, records showing the company's charges for pay television and basic subscriber service, statistical, customer and service records relating to the property and the operation of the company and to all other records which it may keep in the course of its business.
(b)
A copy of any and all rules, regulations, terms and conditions adopted by a company for the conduct of its business shall be filed with the city manager, and a copy shall also be available for public inspection at the company's local office.
(c)
A franchise shall not in any way be construed as a license or permit to a company to engage in the sale or service of radio or television sets or equipment. A franchisee shall be expressly prohibited from engaging in the sale or service of television sets, appliances or parts within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 810, § 22, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-23. - Vested rights.
This chapter shall not be construed or applied so as to impair the vested rights of any person or entity, including vested rights held pursuant to any franchise heretofore granted for the operation of a cable television system prior to the adoption hereof, provided, however, that this chapter shall become fully binding upon such franchisee having vested rights upon the expiration or renewal of the franchise.
(Ord. No. 810, § 23, 8-17-1984)
Sec. 6-24. - Conflicting provisions.
In the event of any conflict between any provision of this chapter and any federal statute or any regulation of the Federal Communications Commission, the federal statute or regulation shall be controlling.
(Ord. No. 914, § 2, 9-1-1993)
