Chapter 21 - TAXICABS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Revocation of for-hire vehicle license for certain offenses, § 13-39; ambulances, § 13-71 et seq.; wreckers, § 13-556 et seq.; motor vehicles and traffic, ch. 14.
State Law reference— Vehicles for hire, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-95.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 21-1. - Definition.
For the purpose of this chapter, the word "taxicab" shall be taken to mean any automobile used in the city for the purpose of carrying passengers for hire, excluding busses and u-drive-it cars.
(Code 1953, § 35.1)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 21-2. - Compliance with chapter.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated any taxicab within the city without first having complied with the provisions of this chapter. Compliance with the requirements of this chapter is made a condition precedent to the operation of a taxicab business in the city and to driving a taxicab in the city.
(Code 1953, § 35.2)
Sec. 21-3. - Requirements as to vehicles.
Every taxicab shall:
(1)
Be painted in one uniform color or combination of colors, adopted by the owner and reported to the marshal;
(2)
Have four doors, unless such type vehicle cannot be obtained by the owner because of a national emergency or because of other circumstances beyond his control and this requirement waived by resolution of the city commission;
(3)
Have in letters not less than four inches high, the full name of the owner of the vehicle, and in figures not less than three inches high, the telephone number or numbers of the owner;
(4)
Have plainly painted on the outside of each rear door, in letters not less than four inches high, the word "Taxicab," and also in figures not less than six inches high the number assigned to such vehicle pursuant to section 21-4 which number shall also be painted plainly on the rear of the vehicle in figures not less than six inches high.
(Code 1953, § 35.3)
Sec. 21-4. - Each vehicle to be assigned a number; registration of numbers and owners.
A separate number shall be assigned to each taxicab in the city by the marshal, which number shall not be altered or changed without the consent of the marshal. Such number, together with the name of the owner of the vehicle to which it was assigned, shall be registered at the police department of the city in a book to be kept by the marshal for such purpose.
(Code 1953, § 35.4)
Sec. 21-5. - Manifests.
(a)
Every taxicab driver shall maintain a daily manifest upon which are recorded all trips made each day, showing time and place of origin and destination of each trip and amount of fare, and all such completed manifests shall be returned to the owner by the driver at the conclusion of his tour of duty. The forms for each manifest shall be furnished to the driver by the owner and shall be of a character approved by the marshal.
(b)
Every owner of a taxicab shall retain and preserve all driver's manifests in a safe place for at least the calendar year next preceding the current calendar year, and such manifests shall be available to the city manager, marshal and city commission.
(Code 1953, § 35.4A)
Sec. 21-6. - Monthly inspection of vehicles; certificates of inspection.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the owner of any taxicab operated in the city to present such vehicle to the marshal at the police station of the city, on or before the fifth day of each month, for the purpose of permitting the marshal or some person designated or approved by him to make a full and complete inspection of such vehicle, especially of the brakes thereof, for the purpose of determining whether such may safely be permitted to operate upon the streets of the city.
(b)
The marshal, or person designated or approved by him, shall inspect the vehicles so presented and test the brakes thereof. If the vehicle is found to be in such condition that it can safely be operated upon the streets of the city, the marshal, or person designated or approved by him, shall issue to the owner thereof a certificate of inspection allowing the operation of such vehicle for one month. It shall be unlawful for any owner to operate any taxicab upon the streets of the city without a currently valid certificate of inspection.
(c)
It shall be the duty of the person making the inspection to refuse to issue a certificate of inspection to any owner of a taxicab when he shall find the vehicle to be unsafe for operation upon the streets of the city.
(d)
During the inspection herein provided for, an inspection shall also be made with reference to the requirements of section 21-3 and an entry made on the certificate of inspection as to compliance or noncompliance with such requirements.
(e)
The driver of any taxicab shall at all times carry in such vehicle the certificate of inspection issued for that vehicle, which certificate he shall exhibit to any police officer of the city upon demand.
(Code 1953, § 35.5)
Sec. 21-7. - Inspection fee.
The owner of any taxicab operated within the city shall pay an annual fee of $25.00 for each vehicle for all required inspections.
(Ord. No. 861, § 1, 1-6-88)
Sec. 21-8. - More than one passenger in front seat prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab upon the streets of the city to carry more than one passenger upon the front seat of such vehicle.
(Code 1953, § 35.6)
Sec. 21-9. - Parking.
No taxicab shall be parked upon any street of the city other than at a taxicab stand.
(Code 1953, § 35.7)
Sec. 21-10. - Leasing vehicles—Notice to police department; approval by commission.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any taxicab to lease such vehicle to any other person or to enter into any similar agreement, scheme or device with any person, unless and until the owner of such vehicle so leased shall notify the police department, in writing, of such lease or similar agreement, giving the name and address of the person to whom such vehicle is leased, and such lease is approved by the city commission.
(Code 1953, § 35.8)
Sec. 21-11. - Same—Lessee as owner.
In the event of the lease of a taxicab or the entrance by the owner of a taxicab into any agreement, scheme or device similar to a lease, and approval thereof by the city commission, the lessee shall, for the purpose of this chapter, be considered the owner of the vehicle.
(Code 1953, § 35.9)
Sec. 21-12. - Penalty.
Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished in accordance with section 1-6.
(Code 1953, § 35.10)
Secs. 21-13—21-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXICAB LICENSE

Sec. 21-21. - Required; fee.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any vehicle to operate, or cause to be operated, such vehicle as a taxicab in the city unless there shall have been issued to such owner by the city commission a taxicab license providing for the operation of such vehicle as a taxicab, and the payment of the license fee which is $100.00 annually for each taxicab operator to cover all vehicles of the operator.
(Code 1953, § 35.11; Ord. No. 861, § 2, 1-6-1988)
Sec. 21-22. - Application.
Before any taxicab license shall be issued by the city commission to the owner of any taxicab, such owner shall file with the secretary of the city commission a written application therefor, which application, at the time of filing, shall be approved by three freeholders of the city and bear written approval of the city manager and the marshal.
(Code 1953, § 35.12)
Sec. 21-23. - Grant or refusal.
Upon consideration of an application for a taxicab license filed as provided in section 21-22, the city commission may grant or refuse the taxicab license applied for in its discretion.
(Code 1953, § 35.13)
Sec. 21-24. - Suspension and revocation.
Any taxicab license granted under this article may be suspended for any part or all of any year or revoked entirely by the city manager, upon the conviction of the holder thereof in the police court of the city for a violation of any ordinance of the city or upon conviction of the holder thereof in any other court of the state for a violation of any traffic law of the state or any offense against the laws of the state which, in the opinion of the city manager, would render the holder of the license an unfit person to hold a taxicab license. Such suspension or revocation of a taxicab license by the city manager shall be effective only after written notice of not less than five days to the license holder by the city manager of a time and place of a hearing and opportunity to the holder of the license to be heard on the charges, which charges shall be specified in the notice. It shall be the duty of the marshal, after any such conviction, to serve the notice herein provided for, which notice shall be signed by the secretary of the city commission.
(Code 1953, § 35.14)
Secs. 21-25—21-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - INDEMNITY BONDS AND INSURANCE

Sec. 21-31. - Indemnity bond required.
Any person making application for a taxicab license shall, for each such vehicle to be operated as a taxicab, give and maintain in full force and effect an indemnity bond in the amount of $10,000.00 for bodily injury to any one person, in the amount of $20,000.00 for injury to more than one person sustained in the same accident and $5,000.00 for property damage resulting from any one accident. Such bond shall be subject to the approval of the city manager and shall be approved by him before it shall be lawful to operate such vehicle as a taxicab. Such bond shall be filed in the office of the secretary of the city commission and shall have as surety thereon a surety company authorized to do business in the state. The applicant shall maintain the bond in the amount specified during the whole time of operation. Such bond shall be conditioned to the effect that in the event any person or property shall be injured or damaged by the operation of such vehicle for which the owner may be liable under the laws of the state, the person so injured in his person or property shall have a right of action under such bond, and the bond shall not be void upon first recovery, but may be sued under from time to time until the full penalty thereof may be exhausted.
(Code 1953, § 35.15)
Sec. 21-32. - Required provision in bond.
In any bond required under the preceding section of this chapter signed and executed by any surety company as surety, there shall be incorporated this additional provision: "Such surety hereby consents to be joined with the said principal in any suit or action which may be instituted against the principal by any member of the public having a right of action against the principal under the provisions of the bond."
(Code 1953, § 35.16)
Sec. 21-33. - Separate policy required for each vehicle; exception.
Wherever any person operating any taxicab elects to give a policy of indemnity insurance in lieu of the bond provided for in section 21-31, there shall be a separate policy of such indemnity insurance for every such separate vehicle, except where such person actually owns and holds a legal title to more than one such vehicle, in which event, such person may give one policy of indemnity insurance covering all of such vehicles actually owned by such person; this provision, however, shall not apply to any group of persons separately owning taxicabs who may be jointly operating or doing business under a trade name.
(Code 1953, § 35.17)
Sec. 21-34. - Policy in lieu of bond.
In lieu of the bond provided for in section 21-31, the owner of a vehicle to be operated as a taxicab may give a policy of indemnity insurance with an indemnity insurance company authorized to do business in the state in the amount of $10,000.00 for bodily injury to any one person, in the amount of $20,000.00 for injuries to more than one person sustained in the same accident, and in the amount of $5,000.00 for property damage resulting from any one accident, for each such vehicle, which policy must substantially conform to all of the provisions of such section relating to bonds and be subject to the approval of the city manager.
(Code 1953, § 35.18)
Sec. 21-35. - Required endorsement on policy.
There must be endorsed on or incorporated in any liability insurance policy provided for in section 21-34 the following provisions: "In consideration of the premium stated in the policy to which this endorsement is attached, the insurer hereby insures the motor vehicles described in the policy and any motor vehicle substituted therefor, but not additional motor vehicles, and agrees to pay within the limits of the policy or any endorsements attached thereto, any final judgment for personal injuries, including death resulting therefrom, to any person, except employees of the inured engaged in operating or caring for such vehicles, and damages to property, which may be obtained in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel such payment, and in accordance with the terms of the policy to which this endorsement is attached. No condition, provision, stipulation or limitation contained in the policy or any other endorsement thereon, or violation of any of the same by the inured, shall affect in any way the rights of any person injured in person or property by the negligence of the inured, or relieve the insurer from the liability provided for in this endorsement, or from the payment of any judgment, to the extent and in the amount set forth in the policy. The insurer consents to be joined in any suit which shall be brought by a member of the public against the insured under this policy. This endorsement, when countersigned by a duly authorized representative of the company, and attached to Policy No. _____, issued to ___________, shall be valid and form a part of the policy."
(Code 1953, § 35.19)
Sec. 21-36. - To be attached to application for taxicab license.
The insurance policy or bond required in this article must be attached to the application for a taxicab license.
(Code 1953, § 35.20)
Sec. 21-37. - Approval, etc., prerequisite to issuance of taxicab license.
No taxicab license shall be issued to any person until the bond or policy required in this article shall have been given and approved.
(Code 1953, § 35.21)
Sec. 21-38. - Term; renewal.
The bond or insurance policy provided for in this article shall continue and extend for the period of time covered by the license issued by the city for the operation of the vehicle as a taxicab and shall expire with such license and be renewed upon the issuance of another taxicab license.
(Code 1953, § 35.22)
Sec. 21-39. - Who may bring suit or action.
The bond or the policy of indemnity insurance provided for in this article shall be for the benefit of and be subject to suit or action thereon by any person who shall sustain actionable injury or loss protected thereby. Any person sustaining actionable injury either to person or property by the operation of a taxicab covered by such bond or policy shall have the right to bring any suit or action therefor jointly against the owner or operator of such vehicle and the surety company signing such bond or insurance company executing such liability insurance policy.
(Code 1953, § 35.23)
Sec. 21-40. - Notice of voiding.
If a bond or policy as referred to in sections 21-38 and 21-39 is voided for any cause, nonpayment of premium or otherwise, notice thereof shall be given in writing to the secretary of the city commission at least ten days before the same shall take effect.
(Code 1953, § 35.24)
Secs. 21-41—21-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DRIVER'S PERMIT

Sec. 21-51. - Required; contents; possession.
(a)
Before any person shall be entitled to drive any taxicab in the city, he shall first obtain a taxicab driver's permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any taxicab in the city without such a permit.
(b)
No person who owns or controls a taxicab shall permit it to be driven for hire in the city unless the driver of such taxicab shall have first obtained and shall have then in force a taxicab driver's permit issued under the provisions of this article of this Code. The permit granted shall be a card bearing the name, age, height, weight, color of eyes and hair, and address of applicant. Such permit shall be in possession of the holder at all times while driving or in control of a taxicab in the city.
(Code 1953, § 35.25)
Sec. 21-52. - Qualifications of applicants.
Applicants for taxicab drivers' permits shall not be less than 21 years of age, must have been a resident of the city for six months and shall be a sober and an able-bodied person of good character with no physical infirmities of any kind.
(Code 1953, § 35.26)
Sec. 21-53. - Application generally; fee.
Each applicant for a taxicab driver's permit shall submit an application in writing to the marshal on a form to be furnished by the police department, which shall be accompanied by a fee of $7.00. Such application shall be made under oath and shall contain the following information: The age of the applicant; his address; length of time he has resided in the city; his knowledge of the streets and traffic ordinances of the city and how such knowledge was obtained; whether he has any physical infirmities, and whether he has been convicted of a violation of any of the laws of this state or any other state or of the United States or ordinances of the city and if so, when, and of what offense, and the sentence of the court. It shall be unlawful to make any false statement in any such application.
(Code 1953, § 35.27; Ord. No. 861, § 3, 1-6-1988)
Sec. 21-54. - Character of applicant and physical condition to be vouched for.
An applicant for a taxicab driver's permit shall present personally to the marshal at the time he files his application:
(1)
The affidavits of two residents of the city who have known the applicant for a period of two years and who will vouch for the sobriety, honesty, and general good character of the applicant, which affidavits shall give the addresses of the affiants, and
(2)
A certificate from a reputable physician of the city certifying that, in his opinion, the applicant is not inflicted with any disease or infirmity which might make him an unsafe or unsatisfactory driver.
(Code 1953, § 35.28)
Sec. 21-55. - Investigation of applicant and grant or refusal of permit.
The police department shall conduct an investigation of each applicant for a taxicab driver's permit and a report of such investigation and a copy of the traffic and police record of the applicant, if any, shall be attached to the application for the consideration of the marshal. The marshal shall, upon consideration of the application and the reports and certificate and affidavits required to be attached thereto, approve or reject the application. If the application is rejected, the applicant may, within five days after rejection, request a personal appearance before the marshal to offer evidence why his application should be reconsidered. The provisions of section 21-56 shall be available to applicant within five days of original rejection or within five days of final rejection after reconsideration.
(Code 1953, § 35.29)
Sec. 21-56. - Appeal from refusal to grant.
In the event of refusal of the marshal to grant a taxicab driver's permit to an applicant therefor, such applicant so refused shall have a right to enter, in writing, within five days from the decision complained of, an appeal to the city commission. Upon such appeal, the decision of the city commission shall be final.
(Code 1953, § 35.30)
Sec. 21-57. - Revocation.
The city manager shall have the right to revoke a taxicab driver's permit in the event the holder is convicted in the police court for a violation of any ordinance of the city or is convicted in any court of any state or of the United States for a violation of law or whenever it is determined that the applicant has made a false statement in the application for such permit. From the decision of the city manager in revoking any such permit, the holder of the permit shall have the right to enter an appeal to the city commission. The decision of the city commission shall be final. Such appeal shall be entered in writing within five days from the order or decision of the city manager complained of.
(Code 1953, § 35.31)
