ARTICLE IX. - GC COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 23-9-1. - Intent of district.
It is the intent of this section that the GC zoning district be developed and reserved for general business purposes. The regulations which apply within this district are designed to encourage the formation and continuance of a compatible and economically healthy environment for regionally oriented business, financial, service and professional uses which benefit from being located in close proximity to each other, and to discourage any encroachment by industrial, residential or other uses considered capable of adversely affecting the basic commercial character of the district.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
Sec. 23-9-2. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be permitted in any GC zoning district:
(a)
Any use permitted in any GR residential district, in compliance with the provisions of section 23-6-2 unless otherwise set forth herein.
(b)
Retail, wholesale or storage business involving the sale of merchandise on the premises, except those uses which involve open yard storage of junk, salvage, used auto parts or building materials. Open storage shall be permitted under conditions set forth in section 23-9-3(g).
(c)
Business involving the rendering of a personal service, other than an automobile laundry or an automobile repair garage, which shall be permitted under conditions set forth in section 23-9-3(b) and (e).
(d)
Seafood processing facilities and/or dock operations involving seafood processing.
(e)
Private or semi-private club, lodge, union hall or social center.
(f)
Church.
(g)
Off-street commercial parking lot or garage.
(h)
Hotel, tourist home, and motel.
(i)
Commercial recreation facility, specifically including:
(1)
Bowling alley.
(2)
Billiard parlor.
(3)
Roller or ice skating rink.
(4)
Theatre, but not including drive-in type of facility.
(j)
Transportation terminal.
(k)
Commercial trade or vocational school.
(l)
Eating and/or drinking establishment, including drive-in or curb service.
(m)
Radio and/or television station and/or transmission tower.
(n)
Public utility installation or sub-installation, including water towers.
(o)
Office building and/or office for governmental, business, professional or general purposes.
(p)
Accessory use in compliance with the provisions of section 23-3-17.
(q)
Two-family dwelling, including patio dwelling in compliance with section 23-6-4.
(r)
Multi-family dwelling in compliance with section 23-6-4.
(s)
Townhouse dwelling in compliance with section 23-6-4.
(t)
Group dwelling in compliance with section 23-6-4.
(u)
Boarding house in compliance with section 23-6-4.
(v)
One-family dwelling, attached in compliance with section 23-6-4.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008; Ord. No. 1012, § 1, 9-2-2009)
Sec. 23-9-3. - Conditional uses.
The following uses shall be permitted on a conditional basis in any GC zoning district, subject to conditions set forth in section 23-25-4.
(a)
Automobile service station, provided that all pumps are set back at least 25 feet from the right-of-way line of the street and parking and/or service areas are separated from adjoining residential properties by a suitable planting a screen, fence, or wall at least six feet in height above finish grade.
(b)
Garage for the repair and servicing of motor vehicles, provided that all operations are conducted within a fully enclosed building or buildings, and there is no open storage of wrecked vehicles, dismantled parts, or supplies visible beyond the premises.
(c)
Newspaper publishing plant, provided that the requirements for parking, loading and unloading conform to those for industrial buildings, as set forth in sections 23-3-19 and 23-3-20.
(d)
Automobile laundry or washateria, provided that an off-street paved parking area capable of accommodating not less than one-half of hourly vehicle washing capacity awaiting entrance to the washing process is suitably located and maintained on the premises (such space to contain at least 200 square feet per waiting vehicle) and no safety hazard or impediment to traffic movement is created by the operation of such an establishment.
(e)
Animal hospital and/or boarding facility, provided all boarding arrangements are maintained within a building and no noise connected with the operation of the facility is perceptible beyond the premises.
(f)
Open yard use for the sale, rental and/or storage of materials or equipment excluding junk or other salvage, provided that such uses are separated from adjoining residential properties by a suitable planting screen, fence, or wall at least six feet in height above finish grade.
(g)
Community hospitals or clinics, including any function such as cafeterias and laundries which relate directly to the operation of the hospitals or clinics and are contained within the confines of said hospital or clinic, provided such uses are in compliance with the provisions of section 23-17-4.
(h)
Any educational facilities directly related to an authorized hospital or the Glynn County Board of Health, and under the supervision of said hospital or the Glynn County Board of Health, provided such uses are in compliance with the provisions of section 23-17-4.
(i)
Single or multi-story dormitories or living quarters for the staff and the student body of an authorized hospital or its related activities, including eating and laundry facilities, provided such dormitories and sleeping quarters are under the supervision and control of an authorized hospital, and provided such uses are in compliance with the provisions of section 23-17-4.
(j)
Public or private care homes, provided such facilities conform with the requirements of the Georgia State Board of Health and receive the written approval of the Glynn County Board of Health and the state fire marshal prior to the issuance of any permits for construction and operation, copies of such approvals to be attached to the building permit and to be retained in the files of the building official and provided further that such use conforms with the provisions of section 23-17-4 pertaining to care homes.
(k)
Temporary use in compliance with the provisions of section 23-23-5.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008; Ord. No. 1012, § 1, 9-2-2009)
Sec. 23-9-4. - Other requirements.
Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this chapter, uses permitted in GC general commercial zoning districts shall be required to conform to the following standards:
(a)
Minimum lot area: 2,500 square feet.
(b)
Minimum lot width, measured at the building line: 25 feet.
(c)
Minimum front yard, measured from the nearest abutting street right-of-way line: Ten feet.
(d)
Minimum side yard: None.
(e)
Minimum rear yard: None.
(f)
Maximum building height: 60 feet, subject to the approval of the fire chief.
(Ord. No. 1006, § 1, 11-19-2008)
