ARTICLE X. - PUBLICLY-OWNED FACILITIES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Sale of alcoholic beverages at publically-owned facilities, O.C.G.A. § 3-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 4-257. - Exception for publicly-owned facilities.
(a)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, a limited exception to sections 4-6 and 4-47, shall exist for that person or entity possessing a public facilities permit, as hereinafter defined.
(b)
For all purposes of this section, the term "public facilities" means:
(1)
An historic structure owned by the city and operated as a welcome center by a local historical society or similar nonprofit organization; or
(2)
Property and/or facilities owned by the city and operated by the city as an equestrian center.
(c)
Any person or entity desiring to engage in activities permitted by this section shall make written application to the director of community development for the appropriate public facilities permit on forms prescribed by the director of community development, and filed with the director of community development. All applications shall be accompanied by a public facilities permit fee of $50.00. If the application is denied, or if the applicant withdraws the application prior to its approval, the license fee, without interest, shall be refunded. The application shall include, but shall not be limited to: the name and address of the applicant, the date, address and times of the proposed event and the location of the public facility. All applications shall be sworn to by the applicant before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths.
(d)
If such public facilities permit is granted by the director of community development, it shall be good only for the specified event at the specified address and times set forth in the application, not to exceed five days for an equestrian center and one day for a welcome center.
(e)
A public facilities permit for an equestrian center shall only permit the permit holder to serve (not sell) alcoholic beverages in a hospitality tent or similar structure previously approved by the director of community development, and the alcoholic beverages may only be consumed on the premises of such hospitality tent or similar structure.
(f)
A public facilities permit for a welcome center shall only permit the holder to serve (not sell) alcoholic beverages within the premises of the welcome center, and the alcoholic beverages may only be consumed on the premises of the welcome center.
(g)
A public facilities permit shall only be issued to a caterer licensed under the provisions of this chapter, or to an individual who meets the character requirements of this chapter; provided, however, that no more than two permits per calendar year shall be issued to an individual who is not a licensed caterer.
(h)
The director of community development shall have authority to prescribe forms for applications. Failure to furnish any requested data shall automatically serve to dismiss the application with prejudice.
(i)
Any untrue or misleading information contained in, or material statement omitted from, an original or renewal application for a public facilities permit shall be cause for the denial or revocation thereof.
(j)
Except as set forth above in this section, a public facilities permit holder must comply with all of the provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 3-120; Ord. No. 373, 3-25-1996; Ord. No. 679, § 17, 7-15-2013; Ord. No. 784 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-26-2019)
Secs. 4-258—4-277. - Reserved.
