ARTICLE XIX. - DISTILLERIES

Sec. 4-455. - Definitions.
As used in this article:
Distiller means a manufacturer of distilled spirits.
Distillery means a facility where distilled spirits are manufactured (distilled, rectified or blended).
(Ord. No. 801 , § 1, 7-20-2020)
Sec. 4-456. - Distiller's license authorized.
The manufacturing of distilled spirits in the city is authorized pursuant to the issuance of a distiller's license by the city council; provided, however, that no person shall be permitted to own or operate a distillery or otherwise manufacture distilled spirits in the city without first obtaining a proper distiller's license from the city council pursuant to the procedures set forth in article I of this chapter, and each holder of a distiller's license shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable state and local statutes, ordinances, resolutions and regulations, including, but not limited to, rules and regulations promulgated by the department of revenue.
(Ord. No. 801 , § 1, 7-20-2020)
Sec. 4-457. - Application; license fee.
Application for a distiller's license shall be made in the manner and in accordance with the procedures set forth in article I of this chapter. The annual fee for a distiller's license shall be $500.00, which fee may be revised from time to time by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 801 , § 1, 7-20-2020)
Sec. 4-458. - Unlawful to manufacture distilled spirits without license.
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture distilled spirits within the city except under a valid distiller's license granted by the city council as set forth in this article. Distilled spirts may only be manufactured on the licensed premises of a distillery.
(Ord. No. 801 , § 1, 7-20-2020)
Sec. 4-459. - Exception for distilleries.
As a limited exception to the provisions of this chapter which implement and enforce the three-tier system for the manufacture, distribution and sale of distilled spirits established under state law, a distiller's license authorizes the holder of such license to sell directly to the public on its licensed premises up to 500 barrels of distilled spirits manufactured on such licensed premises per year for:
(1)
Consumption on the premises; and
(2)
Consumption off the premises (sales by the package), provided that such sales by the package shall not exceed a maximum of 2,250 milliliters of distilled spirits per consumer per day.
Such retail sales are permitted on the days and at the times that the retail sale of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises or by the package, as applicable, is authorized for other licensees under this chapter. Under no circumstances shall such distilled spirits be sold by a licensed distiller to a licensed retailer or retail consumption dealer for the purpose of resale. Any distiller engaging in the retail sales of distilled spirits pursuant to this section shall remit all state and local sales, use, and excise taxes to the proper tax collecting authority. For the purposes of this article, "barrel" means 53 gallons of distilled spirits.
(Ord. No. 801 , § 1, 7-20-2020)
