ARTICLE V. - COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Coin-operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70 et seq.

Sec. 10-153. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bona fide coin-operated amusement machine means every machine of any kind or character used by the public to provide amusement or entertainment whose operation requires the payment of or the insertion of a coin, bill, other money, token, ticket, or similar object and the result of whose operation depends in whole or in part upon the skill of the player, whether or not it affords an award to a successful player, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(b) through (g), and which can be legally shipped interstate according to federal law.
Business location means any structure, vehicle or establishment where a business is conducted.
Class B machine means a bona fide coin-operated amusement machine that allows a successful player to accrue points won on one play to a subsequent play or plays, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d)(2).
Location owner or location operator means an owner or operator of a business where one or more bona fide coin-operated amusement machines are available for commercial use and play by the public.
(Code 1989, § 12-207; Ord. No. 647, § 1, 2-7-2011)
Sec. 10-154. - Authorization.
A business owner or business operator whose business location is located within the city limits of the city may have available for use the number of Class B bona fide coin-operated amusement machines in one business location that he deems advisable (which may be in excess of nine); provided, however, each Class B bona fide coin-operated amusement machine shall meet the following criteria:
(1)
It rewards the player or players with tickets, tokens, or other non-cash representations of value redeemable for merchandise prizes;
(2)
The outcome of the game involves some skill in its operation;
(3)
The award of tickets, tokens or other non-cash representations of value is based solely on the player achieving the object of the game or the player's score;
(4)
Only merchandise prizes and novelty candy may be redeemed;
(5)
The average wholesale value of the prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or tokens for a single play of the machine does not exceed $5.00; and
(6)
The redemption value of each ticket, token or other non-cash representation of value that may be accumulated by a player or players to redeem prizes of greater value does not exceed the cost of a single play of the machine.
(Code 1989, § 12-208; Ord. No. 647, § 1, 2-7-2011)
Secs. 10-155—10-176. - Reserved.
