ARTICLE VIII. - INDOOR SHOOTING RANGES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Discharge of firearm near public highway or street, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-103; discharge of firearm on property of another, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-104; discharge of firearm on Sunday, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-105; Georgia Firearms and Weapons Act, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-120 et seq.; sport shooting ranges not deemed nuisances as result of changed circumstances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-9.

Sec. 10-238. - Indoor shooting ranges permitted.
Indoor shooting ranges (hereinafter referred to as "ranges") are hereby allowed in the city, subject to the terms, conditions and regulations set out and specified in this section. The term "range" is defined as a room, place or enclosure wherein the firing of firearms is permitted to practice marksmanship.
(Code 1989, § 12-141; Ord. No. 290, § 1, 11-11-1991)
Sec. 10-239. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, association, partnership or corporation to operate a range within the city without a license to do so. The annual license fee for the operation of a range shall be established from time to time by resolution of the city council. The initial annual license fee shall be $100.00. The annual license fee shall be due and payable on or before the first business day of January of each year.
(Code 1989, § 12-142; Ord. No. 290, § 2, 11-11-1991)
Sec. 10-240. - Licensee qualifications.
(a)
No license to operate a range shall be granted to any person who, within five years prior to the filing of the application for such license, has been convicted under any federal, state or local law of any offense involving the possession or use of firearms, any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or of any felony. For the purposes of this section, a plea of nolo contendere shall constitute a conviction.
(b)
No license for operation of a range shall be granted to any person who has had any city license revoked within two years prior to the filing of the application.
(Code 1989, § 12-143; Ord. No. 290, § 3, 11-11-1991)
Sec. 10-241. - License application.
(a)
Every applicant for a license shall make written application to the city clerk on forms prescribed by the city clerk. All applications shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate check or cash in the amount of $100.00, to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied, or if the applicant withdraws the application prior to its approval, the license fee (without interest) shall be refunded, but the $100.00 investigative fee shall be retained.
(b)
Every application for a license shall be accompanied by one or more fully completed background questionnaires on forms prescribed by the city clerk. The background questionnaire shall be completed by the owner and primary operator of the range. If the owner is a corporation or partnership, each officer and director of the corporation and each general partner of the partnership shall provide a background questionnaire.
(c)
The city clerk, or his designee, shall review the application and shall send a copy to all affected departments of city government to determine compliance with city regulations and laws, and to the police department to investigate the character and reputation of the applicant and other parties required to submit background questionnaires.
(Code 1989, § 12-144; Ord. No. 290, § 4, 11-11-1991)
Sec. 10-242. - General regulations for ranges.
(a)
Buildings containing ranges shall have walls, ceilings and floors that are either impenetrable to the bullets of the firearms being used within it, or have internal baffling built so that the bullets cannot hit the walls or ceilings. Provisions shall also be made to stop glancing bullets or particles of bullets at the sides of the target area.
(b)
A system of ventilation shall be installed within the range in accordance with the standards and requirements of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
(c)
The range shall be so constructed and insulated that the discharge of firearms within it shall not disturb persons outside the premises. The discharge of firearms shall be deemed to constitute a disturbance if the noise level exceeds 55 decibels at a distance of 50 feet or more from the building containing the range. Sound measurements shall be made with a sound level meter.
(d)
Hearing protectors which fully cover the shooters' ears will be provided by the range and made available for all shooters or other persons in the firing area.
(e)
There shall be one instructor for each five firing points in use. All instructors will be required to be certified by the National Rifle Association or similar organization satisfactory to the city. The owner of the range shall require personnel, instructors and attendants to be at least 18 years of age.
(f)
No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted to enter a range unless accompanied by an adult.
(g)
No weapons, other than handguns or rim fire rifles with a .22 caliber or less, shall be allowed on the premises. All weapons brought into the range shall be in a case designed for the weapons so that no parts of the weapons will be visible. Certified law enforcement officers are exempt from the provisions of this article.
(h)
Loaded weapons shall only be allowed in the firing area of the range and shall not be permitted in any other place inside the building or premises or within the property boundaries outside the building.
(i)
Not more than one person shall shoot from a firing point at one time. All of the persons except instructors must stand behind the firing point. No person shall be allowed in front of a firing point at any time during operating hours except instructors and/or employees and law enforcement officers.
(j)
An emergency system shall be installed within each range, capable of alerting the people on the range to stop firing immediately.
(k)
It shall be unlawful for any person operating a range to permit any person to bring any alcoholic beverages on the premises of any range, or to permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises or to permit alcoholic beverages to be left at any place on the premises. It shall also be unlawful for any person operating a range to permit any intoxicated person to be or remain in the premises of a range.
(l)
It shall be unlawful for any person operating a range to permit any form of gambling or wagering.
(m)
It shall be the responsibility of the licensee or instructor to brief patrons concerning the rules and regulations in the range before they are permitted to use the firing range. The licensee shall keep posted in a conspicuous place inside the building and outside the building a sign stating the rules and regulations of the range.
(n)
All ranges shall be subject to all requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act, and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.
(Code 1989, § 12-145; Ord. No. 290, § 5, 11-11-1991)
Sec. 10-243. - Location; hours of operation.
(a)
No range shall be located within 500 feet of any parcel of land which is zoned for residential uses or purposes. No range shall be located within any zoning category other than industrial (L-I) as defined in article VI of the city zoning ordinance. In addition, the operation of a range within the L-I zoning district shall require a conditional use permit. The measurement of distances, for the purposes of this section, shall be from property line to property line along the shortest possible straight line distance, regardless of any customary or common route or path of travel, i.e., "as the crow flies."
(b)
No range shall be open for business between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
(Code 1989, § 12-146; Ord. No. 290, § 6, 11-11-1991)
Sec. 10-244. - Suspension or revocation of license.
The city clerk may suspend or revoke the license of any licensee found to have violated any provision of this article. However, no license shall be suspended or revoked without the opportunity for a hearing before the city council. Any licensee desiring a hearing shall, within 15 days of being notified of an ordinance violation, file a written petition for a hearing in the office of the city clerk. A hearing shall be conducted by the city council within 30 days of the filing of the petition, unless a continuation of such date is agreed to by the licensee and the city clerk. The licensee shall have the right to be represented by an attorney at the hearing, at the expense of the licensee. The findings of the city council shall be forwarded to the city clerk after the conclusion of the hearing and it shall be the duty of the city clerk to notify the licensee of the action of the city council. The findings of the city council shall be final. The findings of the city council may be appealed to the superior court of the county within 30 days of the date of the findings; provided, however, that the findings shall not be set aside unless found to be contrary to law or ordinance, or unsupported by any evidence on the record as a whole. For the purposes of this section, notice shall be deemed delivered when personally served or, when served by mail, within three days after the date of deposit in the United States mail.
(Code 1989, § 12-147; Ord. No. 290, § 7, 11-11-1991)
Sec. 10-245. - Criminal penalties.
(a)
Any person, firm or corporation operating a range within the municipality without having obtained a license as provided for in this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount according to the penalties described in section 1-8; and each day the range is operated without a license shall be a separate offense.
(b)
Any licensee who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount according to the penalties described in section 1-8; and each violation thereof shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Code 1989, § 12-148; Ord. No. 290, § 8, 11-11-1991)
Sec. 10-246. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any range operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article shall be, and the same is hereby declared to be, unlawful and a public nuisance. The city may, in addition to, or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence an action or actions, proceeding or proceedings for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof, in the manner provided by law.
(Code 1989, § 12-149; Ord. No. 290, § 9, 11-11-1991)
Sec. 10-247. - Liability insurance; bond.
(a)
The owner of the range, whether an individual, or corporate or other business entity, shall carry liability insurance protecting the general public and users of the range against any injury resulted from the discharge of firearms in the range in the amount of not less than $500,000.00 for bodily injury and $100,000.00 for property damage.
(b)
As a condition to the issuance of a license, each licensee shall post with the city clerk a $500.00 cash or surety bond payable to the city and conditioned upon the licensee's faithful performance of all provisions of this article. All surety bonds shall be issued by a surety licensed to do business in the state and listed on the U.S. Treasury list as an approved surety.
(Code 1989, § 12-150; Ord. No. 290, § 10, 11-11-1991)
Sec. 10-248. - Miscellaneous.
The provisions of this article regulating the operation of ranges are declared to be the minimum standards for the operation of a range. The operator of a range shall also be required to comply with any applicable county, state or federal regulations. Nothing in this article shall be deemed to permit or condone any activity which is otherwise declared to be unlawful by any applicable county, state or federal regulation.
(Code 1989, § 12-151)
Secs. 10-249—10-274. - Reserved.
