Chapter 38 - SOLID WASTE
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved garbage can means any cylindrical or rectangular light gauge steel, plastic or galvanized receptacle which is closed at one end and open at the other, equipped with two handles, a tight fitting top or lid, and watertight. An approved garbage can shall have a capacity of not less than five gallons and not more than 95 gallons. Approved garbage cans shall also include plastic bags or liners of sufficient strength to hold refuse not exceeding 50 pounds gross weight and which are tied securely at the top.
Approved yard waste container means any plastic or galvanized receptacle which is closed at one end and open at the other with two handles and a lid, having a capacity of no more than 40 pounds gross weight when filled.
Commercial and industrial premises/units means commercial and industrial entities within the city limits to which the city is responsible for collection.
Garbage means all accumulations of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that attend the preparation, use, cooking or storage of meat, fish, fowl, fruits or vegetables, and containers originally used for foodstuffs.
Hazardous waste means any chemical, compound, mixture, substance or article which is designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or an appropriate agency of the state to be hazardous as that term is defined by or pursuant to federal or state law or regulation.
Inert trash means trash that is not defined as garbage or yard waste such as appliances (other than those containing Freon), furniture, swings or any non-garbage or non-yard waste material which cannot fit into an approved trash container. The term "inert trash" does not include rocks, concrete, bricks and similar solid material, tires, dirt, plaster or construction waste.
Recyclable material means newspapers, glass bottles and containers, aluminum beverage cans, and bimetal beverage cans.
Refuse means garbage, yard waste, inert trash, or all.
Residential premises/units means a dwelling within the city limits occupied by a person or group of persons. A residential unit shall be deemed occupied when water services, either public or private, are being supplied thereto. Each unit of an apartment or condominium dwelling, whether of single or multilevel construction, shall be treated as a residential unit unless the entire condominium or apartment complex is serviced as a commercial entity.
Rubbish means all refuse other than garbage including pine straw, leaves, hedge and grass clippings and any other material not specifically excluded by this chapter or the agreement of the city and an independent contractor providing collection services. The term "rubbish" does not include tree stumps, tree limbs more than three feet in length or three inches in diameter, rocks, concrete, bricks and similar solid material, dirt or plaster.
Yard waste means plant material including leaves, grass clippings, thatch, hedge clippings, Christmas trees, pine cones, pine straw and tree limbs less than three feet in length or six inches in diameter. The term "yard waste" does not include tree stumps or tree sections larger than herein described.
(Code 1989, § 11-50; Ord. No. 187, § 1, 9-20-1982; Ord. No. 277, § 1A, 7-23-1990; Ord. No. 314, § 1, 10-12-1992)
Sec. 38-2. - Use of service required; those authorized to provide.
(a)
The periodic collection of garbage from all places in the city benefits all occupants of places and premises in the city, and such occupants or persons in possession, charge or control of any place in or from which garbage is created, accumulated or produced are liable for and shall pay the garbage collection fees established by the city council. Garbage collection service shall be provided for by the city either on its own or through an independent contractor operating under formal contract with the city, and it shall be mandatory for all occupants or persons in possession, charge or control of places and premises in the city in or from which garbage is created, accumulated or produced to use the collection service provided for by the city or its contractor; provided, however, that there may be joint or multiple use of garbage containers by outside collection services, subject to securing a permit or contract therefor from the city council and pursuant to rules and regulations therefor as established by the council.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person other than an independent contractor operating under a separate contract with the city or authorized agents and employees of the city to collect, remove or dispose of garbage in the city; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the use of garbage disposal devices as provided in the city plumbing code.
(Code 1989, § 11-51; Ord. No. 187, § 6, 9-20-1982)
Sec. 38-3. - Contracts with independent contractors—Authorized; roll-off services; special handling.
(a)
In order for the city to provide adequate service to the citizens of the city for the collection, removal and disposal of accumulated refuse, the city may enter into a contract with an independent contractor, either private or another municipal corporate entity, for such services. In such event, any contract entered into shall be required to meet the standards and regulations of this chapter; provided, however, that the independent contractor shall have the right to offer specific services to all commercial or industrial customers which may involve specialized trucks, compactors, machinery or handling. Under such circumstances, all commercial or industrial customers using such services commonly referred to as roll-off services shall be subject to rates negotiated between the contractor and the building owners and/or occupants, and shall be billed directly by the contractor.
(b)
For items requiring special handling due to size, weight, type of material, or method of placement, the charges are to be negotiated between the contractor and the generator/owner prior to collection, and such service fees shall be billed directly to the customer from the contractor.
(c)
In the event the city enters into a contract with an independent contractor for the collection of refuse throughout the city, such contract, once approved, shall be adopted by resolution and published in the office of the city hall where utility bills may be paid.
(Code 1989, § 11-52; Ord. No. 187, §§ 7, 14, 9-20-1982; Ord. No. 277, § 1B, 7-23-1990)
Sec. 38-4. - Same—Contract price.
The city council may negotiate with an independent contractor or another municipal corporate entity the terms, conditions and consideration to be paid for the services sought under such a contract; and it shall be presumed that any consideration agreed upon between the city and such independent contractor or municipal corporate entity shall be in the best interest and welfare of the citizens of this city.
(Code 1989, § 11-53; Ord. No. 187, § 8, 9-20-1982)
Sec. 38-5. - Collection of yard waste generally.
(a)
On or after the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived, it shall be mandatory for each occupier of land in the city to separate all yard waste from other refuse in accordance with the provisions of this section. Grass, leaves, pine straw and thatch shall be segregated from other yard waste and shall be placed together in an approved yard waste container. Pine cones and hedge clippings shall be segregated from other yard waste and shall be placed together in an approved yard waste container. Tree limbs of proper size shall be stacked at curb side.
(b)
Each residential or business unit shall provide one or more approved yard waste containers. Each approved yard waste container shall be placed at the curb side for collection on days specified from time to time by resolution of the city council. Initially, yard waste collection shall be every two weeks on the same day the city's contractor collects garbage and recyclables. No more than ten approved yard waste containers will be picked up from any one residence or business at any one time. The approved yard waste containers shall not be placed at the curb side sooner than one day prior to the scheduled collection, and empty containers shall be removed promptly after collection.
(c)
Yard waste placed in anything other than an approved yard waste container, such as plastic bags or cardboard boxes, will not be picked up by the city. Each resident or business shall be responsible for the proper disposal of tree stumps, tree limbs more than three feet in length or six inches in diameter, and other trash such as rocks, concrete, bricks or similar solid materials, tires, dirt, plaster and construction materials. Neither the city nor any contractor of the city will pick up such materials for disposal.
(d)
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit an occupier of land within the city from mulching or composting yard waste for use on the premises.
(Code 1989, § 11-54; Ord. No. 187, § 10, 9-20-1982; Ord. No. 314, § 2, 10-12-1992)
Sec. 38-6. - Disposition of inert trash.
Occupiers of land within the city shall call the city public works department and request pick-up of inert trash. Such materials shall be placed at the curb side no sooner than the day before the pick-up date established by the city. Inert trash shall not be commingled with yard waste.
(Code 1989, § 11-55; Ord. No. 187, § 12, 9-20-1982; Ord. No. 314, § 3, 10-12-1992)
Sec. 38-7. - Districts.
The city council may, by resolution, establish districts in the city for the purpose of collecting garbage and rubbish and establishing the fees therefor.
(Code 1989, § 11-56; Ord. No. 187, § 13, 9-20-1982)
Sec. 38-8. - Time of collection.
Collection of garbage shall be made at least once a week from private residences, or as many times per week as the city or its contractor may order from all other places.
(Code 1989, § 11-57; Ord. No. 187, § 9, 9-20-1982)
Sec. 38-9. - Notification for collection.
(a)
All occupants or persons in possession, charge or control of premises and places in or upon which garbage is created, accumulated or produced shall notify the city or its contractor that collection of garbage from such places is required. Occupants or persons in possession, charge or control of premises and places other than private premises shall give notice of the frequency of collection required.
(b)
In the event the city enters into a contract with an independent contractor entity, the independent contractor shall notify the citizens of this city of the change in collection procedure and furnish to the citizens of this city sufficient information for notifying the independent contractor of the citizens' collection needs.
(Code 1989, § 11-58; Ord. No. 187, § 11, 9-20-1982)
Sec. 38-10. - Approved garbage cans—Regulations.
(a)
Each residential unit shall be provided a 95-gallon plastic rollaway cart for garbage disposal. All owners/lessees of residential units shall keep the rollaway carts in a clean, neat and sanitary condition at all times. In the event an owner/lessee loses, destroys or damages a rollaway cart, such owner/lessee shall be required to reimburse the city for the cost of replacing the cart.
(b)
It shall be the duty of every person in possession, charge or control of any place in which garbage is created, accumulated or produced to provide, and at all times keep in a suitable place, as may be required by the city or independent contractor, approved garbage cans capable of holding all refuse which would ordinarily accumulate on such premises between the times of successive collections. Garbage furnished by tenants shall be marked so as to indicate the apartment or flat to which it belongs.
(c)
Commercial and industrial consumers shall place all garbage created, accumulated or produced in approved garbage cans or as necessary for front-end container service, roll-off service using specialized trucks, and compactor service involving special machinery.
(Code 1989, § 11-59; Ord. No. 187, § 2, 9-20-1982; Ord. No. 277, § 1C, 7-23-1990)
Sec. 38-11. - Same—Recycling services, bins.
The city may from time to time provide, or cause to be provided through an independent contractor, collection bins for collection of recyclable material. Upon receipt of a collection bin, each owner/lessee shall keep such collection bin in a clean, neat and sanitary condition at all times. In the event any collection bin becomes lost, destroyed or damaged, or otherwise unusable for the collection of recyclable materials, said owner/lessee shall reimburse the city for the cost for replacing such collection bin.
(Code 1989, § 11-60; Ord. No. 277, § 1D, 7-23-1990)
Editor's note— Prior to amendment by Ordinance Number 277, § 1D, adopted July 23, 1990, § 11-60 pertained to the duty of property owners to provide their own garbage containers and derived from Ordinance Number 187, § 3, 9-20-1982.
Sec. 38-12. - Same—Materials deposited therein.
Rubbish which includes broken glass that has been crushed in a compactor may be deposited in garbage containers. All other broken glass must be set aside in a separate container, clearly visible. Human waste or animal waste and other potentially infectious materials shall not be deposited or placed in garbage containers unless such material is wrapped in a manner satisfactory to the city or its contractor and the city or its contractor has issued an express written consent for the deposit of such waste. Liquid garbage shall not be deposited in such containers. Kitchen garbage shall be drained of all moisture and completely wrapped in paper before it is placed or deposited in garbage containers.
(Code 1989, § 11-61; Ord. No. 187, § 4, 9-20-1982)
Sec. 38-13. - Same—Location.
(a)
Residential premises. With respect to residential premises, no garbage containers or other containers for refuse, other than those of the city, shall be placed, kept, stored or located within the right-of-way of a street or alley or at a distance exceeding 100 feet from the street right-of-way; provided, however, that the city or its contractor may authorize the location of such containers within the public right-of-way at specified places and times when such location is necessary for the expeditious collection and disposition of garbage by the city.
(b)
Commercial and industrial premises. With respect to commercial and industrial premises, containers shall be kept on the premises at a place near the street, readily accessible to collection vehicles, or as otherwise provided by the city or its contractor.
(Code 1989, § 11-62; Ord. No. 187, § 5, 9-20-1982; Ord. No. 277, § 1E, 7-23-1990)
Sec. 38-14. - Nuisance—Described.
The keeping of garbage in containers other than containers prescribed by this chapter or the keeping upon premises of garbage or yard waste which is allowed to become offensive and noisome, shall constitute a public nuisance, and may be abated in the manner provided by law.
(Code 1989, § 11-63; Ord. No. 187, § 17, 9-20-1982; Ord. No. 314, § 4, 10-12-1992)
Sec. 38-15. - Same—Punishment.
(a)
Any property owner, tenant, occupant, person in possession or other person allowing or causing garbage or yard waste to accumulate on the premises to the point that such accumulation becomes offensive and noisome to the adjacent property owners shall be guilty of an offense and subject to citation by the city, upon affidavit being made in writing as to the existence of this violation by any citizen of the city.
(b)
Upon affidavit being made, the property owner, tenant, occupant, person in possession, or person creating the offensive and noisome act shall be served with a citation by the city police department and allowed to show cause, if any, why such person should not be found guilty of the offense, and upon conviction for failure to show good cause, shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1989, § 11-64; Ord. No. 187, § 18, 9-20-1982; Ord. No. 314, § 4, 10-12-1992)
Sec. 38-16. - Fees for collection of garbage and yard waste—Establishing.
Fees for collection of garbage and yard waste shall be those as established by resolution of the city council, and shall be published in the office of the city hall where utility bills may be paid.
(Code 1989, § 11-65; Ord. No. 187, § 14, 9-20-1982; Ord. No. 314, § 4, 10-12-1992)
Sec. 38-17. - Same—Payment.
(a)
With respect to residential and commercial and industrial consumers receiving bills from the city, fees shall be paid on or before 20 days after the billing statement is mailed from the city. With respect to fees billed directly from the contractor, such shall be paid as required by the contractor.
(b)
Any fees not paid on time and falling into a delinquent status shall have a penalty imposed thereon. Such penalty rate shall be published in the office of the city hall where utility bills may be paid and be in accordance with the then current resolution as may be adopted from time to time by the city council.
(c)
The payment of such fees shall be delinquent 20 days after the bill for such fees has been mailed. The collection of delinquent fees for garbage and yard waste collection shall be the same as for the collection of delinquent taxes.
(Code 1989, § 11-66; Ord. No. 187, § 15, 9-20-1982; Ord. No. 277, § 1F, 7-23-1990; Ord. No. 314, § 4, 10-12-1992)
Sec. 38-18. - Same—Rates generally as prescribed.
(a)
In accordance with this chapter, the tenant, occupant, or proprietor of any place from which garbage or rubbish accumulates shall be charged for the services of collection, removal and disposal of such garbage and rubbish at the rates established or approved by the city council.
(b)
All county unified school districts requiring refuse collection from the public schools shall be upon such terms and conditions as they are mutually agreed upon or considered as a special collection point.
(c)
The city council, by resolution, may set or approve a flat monthly rate for removal from a business establishment of extra materials such as waste paper, wooden boxes and the like.
(Code 1989, § 11-67; Ord. No. 187, § 19, 9-20-1982)
Sec. 38-19. - Same—Fee for removal of excess garbage and rubbish.
For the removal of rubbish and periodic accumulation of excess garbage and yard waste, the price to be charged for collection, removal, and disposal shall be quoted in advance, and shall be based upon the amount of material to be removed, as well as upon the time involved and the loading thereof. Such price shall be determined by the prevailing cost for providing the requested service.
(Code 1989, § 11-68; Ord. No. 187, § 20, 9-20-1982)
Sec. 38-20. - Same—Advance payment of cost.
(a)
If any charges herein provided for are paid in advance and garbage and yard waste collection service is discontinued or cancelled prior to the end of the period for which the charges are paid, a refund shall be made at that portion of the charges which is for the period subsequent to the discontinuance or cancellation of such service; provided, however, that no refund of less than one month's charge for garbage and yard waste collection service shall be made.
(b)
Request for such refund shall be processed administratively under such rules and regulations thereof as shall be prescribed by the city or its contractor. Refunds may be granted as herein authorized only upon the written approval of the city or its contractor.
(Code 1989, § 11-69; Ord. No. 187, § 21, 9-20-1982)
Sec. 38-21. - Specific directions to collectors as to handling.
Refuse collectors are instructed to remove only the contents of the refuse containers. It is possible, however, to have a small amount of extra yard waste removed on the regular day of service for an extra charge, providing this material is placed in carton boxes and left next to the refuse containers. The city or its contractor shall be notified by the customer before the day of collection. The city or its contractor will determine the charge according to the amount of material to be removed.
(Code 1989, § 11-70; Ord. No. 187, § 22, 9-20-1982)
Sec. 38-22. - Unauthorized deposits; failure to remove.
(a)
No person shall deposit for curbside pick-up any garbage, hazardous waste, inert trash or yard waste not contained within proper containers or otherwise properly prepared for pick-up in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. In addition, it shall be the duty of each person depositing specialized waste at the curb side to first make arrangements with the city's designated contractor for the pick-up of such waste. Specialized waste includes yard waste that is too bulky for authorized containers, large limbs and trees, inert trash, and other items which are not part of the regular garbage collection service provided by the city.
(b)
Any person failing to remove or cause the removal of specialized waste or any garbage, yard waste or inert trash not in proper containers or properly prepared for removal within seven days after a written warning notice from the city requesting such removal shall be in violation of this chapter. Any person who is convicted of a first offense under this section shall be subject to a fine of $50.00. Any person who is convicted of a second violation of this section shall be punished by a fine of $125.00. Any person who is convicted of a third or any subsequent violation of this section shall be punished by a fine of not less than $500.00, nor more than $1,000.00, and each day that a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
In addition, in the event that the occupant, owner or other responsible party fails to remove or cause the removal within the time specified, the city shall have the right to remove or cause the removal of such items at the expense of the owner and occupant, and the expense shall be added to and become part of the owner or occupant's garbage bill. In the case of rental property, whether single-family or multifamily, the tenant and the owner shall be jointly and severally liable for the cost of removal. In the case of multifamily fee simple property, the owner-occupant and the homeowners' association, if any, shall be jointly and severally liable for the cost of removal. If there is no homeowners' association, the management company, if any, shall be jointly and severally liable with the owner-occupant for the cost of removal. In the event that any removal fee remains unpaid for a period of 30 days after written notice, the city may pursue any and all civil remedies available to the city at law or in equity to collect the fee, and the city may, after an additional 15-day period of prior written notice, discontinue water and garbage service to the applicable property. The punishment or conviction of any person under subsection (b) of this section shall not relieve the person from paying any unpaid removal fee; nor shall payment of any unpaid removal fee bar criminal prosecution for any violation of this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 11-71; Ord. No. 400, § 1, 2-16-1998)
Secs. 38-23—38-33. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; transportation of biomedical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1.

Sec. 38-34. - Non-exclusive commercial services.
Commercial solid waste customers in the city are authorized to contract for commercial solid waste collection and disposal services from any contractor, provided that such contractor first obtains a solid waste collection permit from the city. Rates and other contract terms, including, but not limited to, container size and frequency of collections, shall be negotiated between the contractor and the customer, provided that such terms do not conflict with the provisions of this chapter or other applicable city ordinances.
(Code 1989, § 11-81; Ord. No. 354, § 1, 12-19-1994)
Sec. 38-35. - Application process; solid waste collection permit.
It shall be unlawful for any commercial solid waste contractor (hereinafter "commercial contractor") to provide commercial solid waste collection and disposal services within the city without first obtaining a city solid waste collection permit. Contractors desiring to perform such services shall make written application to the city for a permit on forms prescribed by the city director of finance. All applications shall be accompanied by a $500.00 application fee to defray investigative, administrative and regulatory costs. Permits shall be issued to qualified applicants for the full calendar year, or for the number of months remaining in the calendar year, at the time the application is approved. Each commercial contractor issued a permit shall pay a quarterly permit fee to the city as provided in section 38-25. All permits granted under this chapter shall expire on December 31 of each year. Commercial contractors desiring to renew their permits shall file renewal applications accompanied by a $500.00 renewal application fee. The renewal application shall be submitted on forms prescribed by the director on or before November 15 of each year. In the event annual permit fees go unpaid after the due date, a ten percent penalty will be charged, based upon the past due amount. Further, a 12 percent per annum interest charge shall accrue until the permit fees are paid in full.
(Code 1989, § 11-82; Ord. No. 354, § 2, 12-19-1994; Ord. No. 421, § 1, 4-3-1999; Ord. No. 505, 9-23-2002)
Sec. 38-36. - Permit fees.
(a)
Each commercial contractor shall pay a permit fee to be set by the city council from time to time per cubic yard of solid waste removed from the city, payable in accordance with billing and reporting procedures adopted from time to time by the director. For the purposes of determining the permit fee, solid waste shall be deemed to include trash, construction debris, demolition debris, medical waste, yard waste and rubbish, inert waste, hazardous waste, and any other solid waste not covered under separate contract with the city. In general, the volume and weights of solid waste shall be based upon actual weights of containers. Where actual weighing is not done, the permit fees shall be based upon the sizes of the containers, the frequency of collection and the types of waste mix in the container. The director will provide the average weight factors to be used. For the purpose of fee calculation, all containers shall be deemed full at the time of each collection. On or before the tenth working day of the first month following the end of each calendar quarter, the commercial contractor shall submit a quarterly fee based upon the cubic yards of waste removed from the city for the immediately preceding quarter, together with a report providing such information as the director shall deem appropriate. In the event permit fees go unpaid after the due date, a ten percent penalty will be charged based upon the past due amount. Further, a 12 percent per annum interest charge shall accrue until the permit fees are paid in full. The report shall contain, but shall not be limited to, a listing of customers served during the quarter, together with the size of containers and collection frequency for each customer; total tons of materials landfilled and recycled by city customers; identification of landfills used by the contractor; and identification of end users of recycled materials. The report shall be submitted in written form. The director or his designee shall have the right to examine at any time commercial contractors' books, records and computer data relating to the removal of solid waste from the city in order to verify or determine the amounts which should be remitted to the city. Each commercial contractor shall make its books, records and computer data pertinent to the removal of solid waste from the city available for audit. If the results of any such audit show that any of the commercial contractor's reports understate the amount owing to the city, the underpayment shall be remitted to the city immediately, and if the understatement amounts to five percent or more, the commercial contractor shall also remit to the city a sum equal to ten percent of the underpayment, and shall also reimburse the city for its costs in conducting the audit.
(b)
All permitted commercial contractors shall also submit such other reports as the director may reasonably require regarding the removal of solid waste from the city in order to provide information needed by the city to comply with applicable state and federal reporting requirements imposed upon the city. Solid waste refers to trash and to recycling, if the permitted hauler provides recycling services. All permitted commercial contractors shall provide quarterly information regarding tons landfilled and recycled to their city customers that are legally required to reduce their landfilled solid waste by 25 percent. This information shall be provided in a timely and accurate manner. Withholding of this information, delay in providing the information which causes the city customer to miss a legal deadline, or the providing of inaccurate information shall constitute a violation of this chapter and may result in fines, permit revocation, or both, as provided in sections 38-30 and 38-31.
(c)
Every permitted commercial contractor is required to provide dependable solid waste service to customers within the city. Failure to provide dependable service may result in fines, permit revocation, or both, as provided in sections 38-30 and 38-31.
(Code 1989, § 11-83; Ord. No. 354, § 3, 12-19-1994; Ord. No. 421, § 2, 5-3-1999; Ord. No. 455, § 1, 11-6-2000; Ord. No. 505, 9-23-2002)
Sec. 38-37. - Minimum vehicle standards.
An adequate number of vehicles shall be provided by the commercial contractor to service its city customers. All such vehicles shall be licensed in the state and shall operate in compliance with all applicable state, federal and municipal regulations. All vehicles and other equipment shall be kept in proper repair and sanitary condition. Each vehicle shall have at least one broom and shovel to clean up solid waste that may be spilled or otherwise scattered during the process of collection. All vehicles shall be sufficiently secure so as to prevent any littering of solid waste and/or leakage of fluid. No vehicle shall be willfully overloaded. Each vehicle shall be operated by a qualified driver holding a valid license of the category required to operate such vehicles.
(Code 1989, § 11-84; Ord. No. 354, § 4, 12-19-1994)
Sec. 38-38. - Minimum insurance requirements; indemnification.
(a)
Each commercial contractor shall provide and maintain, during the term of its permit, public liability and property damage insurance and umbrella coverage in such amounts as shall be reasonably determined from time to time by the director. The initial insurance requirements are as follows:
(1)
Public liability:
a.
$500,000.00 per person.
b.
$1,000,000.00 per accident.
(2)
Property damage: $500,000.00 per any one claim.
(3)
Performance bond: varies according to number of city contracts.
(b)
Each commercial contractor shall provide a certificate of such insurance to the city prior to undertaking collection services within the city, and, at each annual renewal of the permit, shall submit to the city an updated certificate of insurance together with the annual permit fee. Each commercial contractor shall defend, indemnify and save harmless and protect the city, its officers and agents, from any and all liability, loss or claims, actions, demands or judgments made against it for loss, damage or personal injury sustained by any person or entity whatsoever in connection with the services rendered by the commercial contractor, unless such damages are due to the negligence of the city, its officers, agents or employees.
(Code 1989, § 11-85; Ord. No. 354, § 5, 12-19-1994; Ord. No. 421, § 3, 5-3-1999)
Sec. 38-39. - Minimum financial requirement.
Each commercial contractor shall have a positive net worth and adequate capital and assets to perform its contracts with city customers. As a condition to the issuance of a permit, the director may require the submission of financial statements or similar information to verify these financial requirements. Any information submitted that is proprietary or constitutes a trade secret shall, subject to applicable law, be held confidential by the city.
(Code 1989, § 11-86; Ord. No. 354, § 6, 12-19-1994)
Sec. 38-40. - Routes and hours of collection.
Not less than ten days prior to commencing service, each commercial contractor shall furnish for the city's approval the initial schedules and maps of all routes to be used in servicing the commercial contractor's city customers. Any charges in routes and/or schedules shall also be subject to the director's approval, which will not be unreasonably withheld. The commercial contractor shall only undertake collections during the city's normal hours of collection, as adopted from time to time by the director. Exceptions may be made only upon the mutual agreement of the director and the commercial contractor. The commercial contractor shall also comply with all applicable city ordinances, including the city's noise provisions.
(Code 1989, § 11-87; Ord. No. 354, § 7, 12-19-1994)
Sec. 38-41. - Violation of chapter.
Any violation of this chapter by the commercial contractor may be punished according to the penalties described in section 1-8. Each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense. The city shall also have the right to initiate civil action to compel compliance with this chapter and to collect any unpaid permit fees.
(Code 1989, § 11-88; Ord. No. 354, § 8, 12-19-1994)
Sec. 38-42. - Early termination of permit.
If a commercial contractor fails to perform in accordance with this chapter or other applicable ordinances, the director shall have the right to demand, in writing, adequate assurance from the commercial contractor that steps have been taken to rectify the situation. The commercial contractor must, within seven days of receipt of such demand, return to the director a written statement that explains reasons for non-performance or delayed, partial or substandard performance, and provides adequate assurance as to future performance. In the event that the commercial contractor fails to submit a statement satisfactory to the director, the director may revoke the commercial contractor's permit. Such revocation shall become effective 30 days following a notice of revocation to the commercial contractor. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the right to continue to operate under a permit issued by the city is expressly conditioned upon the commercial contractor's timely payment of permit fees. Continued operation in the city without payment of such fees shall be unlawful. In addition, the city may revoke a permit for nonpayment of fees immediately and without notice.
(Code 1989, § 11-89; Ord. No. 354, § 9, 12-19-1994)
Sec. 38-43. - Commercial and industrial refuse collection to be provided on a competitive face market value.
(a)
It is the policy and intent of the city that commercial and industrial refuse collection services are provided within the city on a competitive, free market basis. In order to promote this policy and intent, commercial and industrial customers within the city are encouraged to solicit multiple bids from qualified vendors for the provision of refuse collection services.
(b)
In furtherance of this policy and intent, qualified vendors are encouraged to solicit commercial and industrial customers within the city for the purpose of providing commercial and industrial refuse collection services. It is also the policy and intent of the city that all qualified commercial and industrial vendors have free access to the market within the city, that all such vendors are afforded an equal opportunity to complete for and provide such services, and that no vendor shall be given preference over another.
(Code 1989, § 11-90; Res. No. 536, §§ 1, 2, 6-13-1994)
Secs. 38-44—38-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WASTE GENERATION ANALYSIS AND REDUCTION PLAN[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.

Sec. 38-54. - Findings.
The mayor and council hereby find that:
(1)
The Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act imposes upon municipalities within the state an obligation to develop and implement plans to reduce, on a per capita basis, the amount of municipal solid waste being received at landfills and other disposal facilities by 25 percent;
(2)
In order to achieve compliance and facilitate the stated goals of the Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, the city has heretofore adopted a solid waste management plan establishing procedures for achieving state-mandated waste reduction;
(3)
The Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act also requires municipalities to update municipal solid waste management plans from time to time, to measure performance, and to implement additional procedures, strategies and methods to reduce solid waste by 25 percent;
(4)
Strategies included within the city solid waste management plan include provisions encouraging each applicant for a city land disturbance permit to develop a waste generation analysis and reduction plan for the proposed project;
(5)
The city is in the process of updating its solid waste management plan and deems it to be appropriate to implement an ordinance to formalize and establish enforcement procedures requiring the submission of a waste generation analysis and reduction plan for approval as part of the city's plan review process, and to provide procedures to ensure ongoing compliance with approved waste reduction plans; and
(6)
The mayor and council find that the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived is within the basic police powers of the city, and that the provisions contained herein are intended to protect the public health, safety and well-being of city residents, and to protect and enhance the quality of the city's environment in furtherance of a comprehensive statewide program for solid waste management.
(Code 1989, § 11-100; Ord. No. 412, § 1, 9-21-1998; Ord. No. 498, § I, 7-15-2002)
Sec. 38-55. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Director means the city director of community development or his designee.
Land disturbance permit means a permit issued by the city authorizing development activity, which permit requires the submission of development plans for review and approval by the community development department.
Plan applicant means any person or entity required to submit plans and apply for a land disturbance permit as a condition to development of a project within the city.
(Code 1989, § 11-101; Ord. No. 412, § 2, 9-21-1998; Ord. No. 498, § I, 7-15-2002)
Sec. 38-56. - Waste generation analysis and reduction plan.
(a)
Each plan applicant shall, as a condition of undertaking development activity within the city, submit a waste generation analysis and reduction plan (WGA) as part of and in conjunction with the submission of development plans to the community development department. The waste generation analysis and reduction plan shall contain such information as is specified in this chapter and shall be designed to establish a 25 percent reduction in the anticipated solid waste to be generated by the project. No land disturbance permit shall be issued or approved by the community development department unless and until the plan contains an approved WGA.
(b)
Each WGA shall be set forth in writing and shall contain, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
The full name of the person applying for WGA approval.
(2)
The name and size of the proposed project.
(3)
The types of waste that will be generated at the site.
(4)
Annual projected tons of waste.
(5)
Plans and strategies for achieving a 25 percent solid waste reduction.
(6)
Plans for notifying and assuring tenant compliance with the provisions of the WGA.
(7)
A list of specific items to be recycled and the anticipated tons of annual reduction.
(8)
A list of the size of containers and the frequency of pick-ups to be used for solid waste pick-up and recycling.
(9)
A description of design features to be utilized to accommodate waste reduction practices and solid waste collection.
(10)
Such other information as the director may reasonably require.
(c)
In order to develop the WGA, the plan applicant shall utilize the solid waste generation rates established by the National Solid Waste Management Association and the Atlanta Regional Commission, or generation rates as approved by the director.
(Code 1989, § 11-102; Ord. No. 412, § 3, 9-21-1998; Ord. No. 498, § I, 7-15-2002)
Sec. 38-57. - Ongoing compliance.
Following the approval of a WGA, the issuance of a land disturbance permit and the completion of the project, the applicant or project owner shall thereafter submit to the director reports reflecting compliance with the approved WGA. Failure to maintain compliance with the required 25 percent waste reduction shall be a violation of this chapter and may result in non-renewal of any permits or licenses granted by the city to conduct business. Proof of compliance with this chapter is required for a business license renewal.
(Code 1989, § 11-103; Ord. No. 412, § 4, 9-21-1998; Ord. No. 498, § I, 7-15-2002)
Sec. 38-58. - Enforcement.
For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the director may enter upon any public or private land in a reasonable and lawful manner during normal business hours for purposes of sampling, inspection and observation. Failure to provide reasonable access shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 11-104; Ord. No. 412, § 5, 9-21-1998; Ord. No. 498, § I, 7-15-2002)
Sec. 38-59. - Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined according to the penalties described in section 1-8 for each offense, and each day that the offense occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and in addition to any other relief provided in this chapter, the city attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any such violation of this chapter. Such application for relief may include seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and permanent injunction. Cases involving violations of this chapter may also be heard by the code enforcement board for the purpose of levying fines.
(Code 1989, § 11-105; Ord. No. 412, § 6, 9-21-1998; Ord. No. 498, § I, 7-15-2002)
