ARTICLE XII. - SPECIAL EVENTS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Special events use permit, O.C.G.A. § 3-14-1 et seq.

Sec. 4-305. - Special temporary outside events.
(a)
Establishments duly licensed by the city to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises must submit an application and site plan to the director of community development or his designee to engage in outside special events. A special event temporary permit shall authorize the retail consumption licensee to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises for a period not to exceed the hours otherwise specified in this chapter. The applicant must meet the following requirements:
(1)
The licensed establishment must have an existing license for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises. The entrances and exits to the event must be through controlled entry points which allow for easy monitoring of patrons entering and leaving the event.
(2)
A site plan must be submitted to and approved by the director of community development as well as the city fire marshal for approval. If the site plan provides for an area to accommodate more than 25 persons, a crowd control and security plan must be submitted to the director of community development for approval. The community development department and city fire marshal must approve any temporary structures.
(3)
A signed and notarized letter from the property owner must be submitted to the director of community development authorizing the use of the property for the event.
(4)
The outside event shall not exceed two days.
(5)
All outside events for an individual licensed establishment will be restricted to two events per year.
(6)
A non-refundable fee of $150.00 per event must be paid at the time of filing of the application.
(7)
The completed application must be submitted to the director of community development no less than 20 days prior to the scheduled event.
(b)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to waive or appeal any other requirements ordained under this Code.
(c)
The licensee or the licensee's employee shall supervise all aspects of the special event pertaining to the handling and storage of alcoholic beverages and the distribution of alcoholic beverages to consumers. The licensee shall be responsible for compliance with all aspects of this article and state law, and liable for infractions thereof.
(Code 1989, § 3-140; Ord. No. 679, § 18, 7-15-2013; Ord. No. 784 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-26-2019)
Secs. 4-306—4-328. - Reserved.
