ARTICLE II. - ADULT BOOKSTORES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Governing authority has power to enact legislation to restrict operation of adult bookstores, explicit media outlets, and adult movie houses to areas zoned for commercial or industrial purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3.

Sec. 10-19. - Findings.
(a)
The mayor and council find, based upon an October, 1980, study by the Minnesota Crime Prevention Center, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, entitled "An Analysis of the Relationship Between Adult Entertainment Establishments, Crime and Housing Values," that adult bookstores are significantly related to diminishing market values of neighboring residential areas, that adult bookstores should not be located in residential areas, and that adult bookstores should be permitted only in locations that are at least one-tenth-mile, or approximately 500 feet, from residential areas.
(b)
The mayor and council further find, based upon a June, 1978, study by the division of planning of the St. Paul, Minnesota Department of Planning and Economic Development and the community crime prevention project of the Minnesota Crime Control Planning Board entitled "Effects on Surrounding Area of Adult Entertainment Businesses in Saint Paul," that the presence of adult bookstores correlates with a decreasing market value of neighboring residential areas. The mayor and council also find that adult bookstores tend to locate in areas of poorer residential condition, and that more than two adult entertainment businesses in an immediate area is associated with a statistically significant decrease in residential property market value, and that such a concentration of adult entertainment businesses in a given area should be discouraged. The mayor and council also find that such worsening of residential conditions will adversely affect uses found in residential areas or in the proximity of residential areas, such as public recreational facilities, public or private institutional uses, churches, schools, universities, colleges, trade schools, libraries, and day care centers.
(c)
The mayor and council further find, based upon a May 19, 1986, land use study conducted in Austin, Texas, that an adult bookstore within one block of a residential area decreases the market value of homes, that adult bookstores are considered a sign of decline by lenders, making underwriters hesitant to approve the 90 to 95 percent financing many home buyers require, and that patrons of adult bookstores tend to be from outside the immediate neighborhood in which the adult bookstore is located.
(d)
The mayor and council further find, based upon a March 3, 1986, study conducted by the Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Community Development Department entitled "Adult Entertainment Businesses in Oklahoma City—A Survey of Real Estate Appraisers," that an adult bookstore will have a negative effect on residential property market values if it is located closer than one block to residential uses.
(e)
The mayor and council further find, based upon a 1983 study conducted in Indianapolis, Indiana, that real estate appraisers there overwhelmingly (80 percent) felt that an adult bookstore located in a neighborhood would have a negative impact on residential property values within one block of the site. Furthermore, a 1984 study entitled "Adult Entertainment Businesses in Indianapolis" found that areas with sexually-oriented businesses had higher crime rates than similar areas with no sexually-oriented businesses.
(Code 1989, § 12-185; Ord. No. 387, § 1, 4-7-1997)
Sec. 10-20. - Intent.
(a)
It is the intent of this article to regulate the place of operation of adult bookstores as defined herein. This article is intended to be a carefully tailored regulation to minimize the adverse land use impacts caused by the undesirable secondary effects of adult bookstores. The mayor and council find that restricting adult bookstores to industrially zoned areas and imposing development standards can legitimately regulate adult bookstores by establishing zones where adult bookstores are most compatible with other uses or the surrounding neighborhood, and by requiring minimum distances to be maintained between adult bookstore uses and other uses, so as to afford the most protection to residential uses.
(b)
It is not the intent of the mayor and council, in enacting this article, to deny to any person rights to speech protected by the state constitution or the United States Constitution, nor is it the intent to impose any additional limitations or restrictions on the contents of any communicative materials, including sexually-oriented films, videotapes, books, or other materials. Further, the mayor and council do not intend to deny or restrict the rights of any adult to obtain or view any sexually-oriented materials protected by the United States Constitution or the state constitution, nor do they intend to restrict or deny any constitutionally protected rights that distributors or exhibitors of such sexually-oriented materials may have to sell, distribute, or exhibit such constitutionally protected materials. Finally, in the enactment of this article, the mayor and council intend to adopt a content neutral measure to address the secondary effects of adult bookstores.
(Code 1989, § 12-186; Ord. No. 387, § 2, 4-7-1997)
Sec. 10-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult bookstore means any commercial establishment in which is offered for sale any book or publication, film, or other medium which depicts sexually explicit nudity or sexual conduct.
Church means a building in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship intended primarily for purposes connected with such worship or for propagating a particular form of religious belief.
Licensed day care center means a facility licensed by the state that provides care, training, education, custody, treatment or supervision for more than 12 children under 14 years of age, where such children are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than 24 hours a day, regardless of whether or not the facility is operated for a profit or charges for the services it offers.
Residential, pertaining to the use of land, means premises such as homes, townhomes, patio homes, mobile homes, duplexes, condominiums and apartment complexes which contain habitable rooms for non-transient occupancy and which are designed primarily for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating therein.
School means a building where persons regularly assemble for the purpose of instruction or education together with the playgrounds, stadia and other structures or grounds used in conjunction therewith. The term "school" is limited to:
(1)
Public and private schools used for primary or secondary education, in which any regular kindergarten or grades one through 12 classes are taught; and
(2)
Special educational facilities in which students who have physical or learning disabilities receive specialized education in lieu of attending regular classes in kindergarten or any of grades one through 12.
Specified anatomical areas shall include any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic regions; buttocks; or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activities means:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
(2)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
(3)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or masturbation;
(4)
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks or female breasts;
(5)
Masochism, erotic or sexually-oriented torture, beating or the inflicting of pain;
(6)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being; or
(7)
Human excretion, urination, menstruation, or vaginal or anal irrigation.
(Code 1989, § 12-187; Ord. No. 387, § 3, 4-7-1997)
Sec. 10-22. - Location; development standards.
(a)
The measurement of distances, for purposes of this section, shall be from property line to property line along the shortest possible straight line distance, regardless of any customary or common route or path of travel, i.e., "as the crow flies." The term "parcel of land" means any quantity of land capable of being described by location and boundary, designated and used, or to be used, as a unit. No adult bookstore shall be located:
(1)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land which is zoned for residential uses or purposes or used residentially;
(2)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, school, licensed day care center, governmental building simultaneously owned and occupied by such government, library, civic center, neighborhood public park or neighborhood playground is located;
(3)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which another adult bookstore is located;
(4)
Within any zoning category other than industrial (L-I) as defined in article VI of the zoning ordinance.
(b)
The minimum lot area for an adult bookstore shall be one acre.
(c)
Adult bookstores shall be required to be on lots that have a minimum of 150 feet of road frontage on a public road, street or highway. Such establishments shall have a minimum of two driveways, which shall provide access to a public road, street or highway.
(d)
In addition to development standards governing the L-I zoning district, buildings and structures established in connection with an adult bookstore shall be set back at least 40 feet from any other business establishment, and the minimum rear yard shall be 75 feet.
(e)
Adult bookstores shall be required to provide one automobile parking space for each 25 square feet of gross building area or for every three customer seats, whichever results in the greater number of parking spaces.
(f)
Adult bookstores shall not allow the depictions of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities to be visible from any point outside the structure.
(Code 1989, § 12-188; Ord. No. 387, § 4, 4-7-1997)
Sec. 10-23. - Violation; penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount according to the penalties described in section 1-8; and each violation thereof shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such; and each day that a violation continues shall be punishable as a separate offense.
(Code 1989, § 12-189; Ord. No. 387, § 5, 4-7-1997)
Sec. 10-24. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any adult bookstore operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article shall be and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The city may, in addition to, or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence an action, proceeding for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof, in the manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove the adult bookstore and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining the adult bookstore contrary to the provisions of this article.
(Code 1989, § 12-190; Ord. No. 387, § 6, 4-7-1997)
Sec. 10-25. - Miscellaneous.
Nothing contained in this article shall be deemed to permit or condone any activity whatsoever which is otherwise declared to be obscene or illegal by this Code or the statutes of the state, or in violation of any prohibition upon nudity or sexual activity as provided for in such city Code or statutes of the state; and further, the location of the activities and uses which are regulated and permitted by this article shall only be allowed if they are not obscene and not in violation of any other such prohibitions on nudity or sexual activity. This section shall supersede and limit all other provisions of this article.
(Code 1989, § 12-191; Ord. No. 387, § 7, 4-7-1997)
Secs. 10-26—10-53. - Reserved.
