ARTICLE II. - AMBULANCE SERVICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— County authorized to provide ambulance and emergency rescue services pursuant to home rule powers of local governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); ambulances, emergency medical personnel, and emergency medical systems generally, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-1 et seq.; authority of municipalities to fix, charge, or assess license fee or registration fee on any ambulance service business or on any person engaged in any profession related to emergency services or from establishing additional regulations regarding ambulance service, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-10.

Sec. 22-19. - The public safety director shall develop policies and procedures.
The public safety director under the supervision of the board of commissioners shall develop policies and procedures, which shall govern duty time, call time, and daily operating procedures of the ambulance department. Such policies and procedures will supersede all policies heretofore applicable to ambulance service employees.
(Ord. of 1-4-2010, § I)
Sec. 22-20. - Advanced life support certification.
(a)
The purpose of this section is to ensure that the citizens of the county will be afforded the best available emergency medical transportation in all circumstances.
(b)
All ambulances and emergency medical vehicles, which operate in the county, shall be certified for advanced life support by the state department of human resources.
(c)
Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or 60 days imprisonment, or both. Each day any violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. of 1-4-2010, § II)
Sec. 22-21. - Affected services.
(a)
Application. This section and sections 22-22 through 22-24 shall apply to any ambulance service, except those listed below, which is proposed by any person to be located within the county or whose services are offered to county residents.
(b)
Exempt services. Exempt emergency medical services are:
(1)
An ambulance service operated by an agency of the United States government;
(2)
A vehicle operated by an individual who is not licensed to furnish emergency medical services and who is rendering assistance temporarily, such as in the case of a major catastrophe or emergency; or
(3)
An ambulance service which is based in another county, and which is returning county residents to the county from any other county.
(Ord. of 1-4-2010, § III)
Sec. 22-22. - General operations regulations.
(a)
General compliance. All ambulance services, its vehicles and personnel shall at all times, be operated in compliance with all laws, rules, regulations, orders and decrees of the state and the county.
(b)
Base station. All ambulance services offering services to residents of the county must have a permanent base of operations located within the county.
(c)
Hours of operation. Every ambulance service offering services to residents of the county must provide said services 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(d)
Staffing. All ambulance services offering services to residents of the county shall have at least two qualified and certified personnel on duty and available to answer calls for assistance, at all times. At least one of these individuals must be certified as a paramedic or a cardiac technician, or the equivalent as provided by the state law.
(e)
Vehicles. All vehicles operated by any ambulance service offering services to residents of the county shall be equipped to provide advanced life support at all times.
(f)
Public Access. All ambulance services offering services to residents of the county must not advertise or encourage the use of any other telephone number other than 9-1-1 for emergency calls. Said services must establish a local or toll-free telephone number for residents to arrange for non-emergency transportation and/or business calls.
(g)
Dispatch by E911. Any ambulance service offering service to residents of the county by receiving calls through E911 will share in the cost of operating the E911 emergency system. The county has determined that ten percent of the cost of operating the E911 emergency system is attributed to ambulance service in the county. Therefore, any ambulance service offering the aforesaid services shall share equally with all other ambulance services, including the county-operated ambulance service, ten percent of the cost of operating the E911 emergency system. Such amounts shall be determined by the county and billed to each such ambulance service on a monthly basis. Said ambulance service shall remit payment to the county within ten days of receipt of such statement. Failure to remit such monies to the county within the time specified shall be considered a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 1-4-2010, § IV)
Sec. 22-23. - Indemnification.
Any ambulance service that operates from a base of operations located within the county shall maintain the insurance listed below.
(1)
General and professional (e.g., malpractice) liability insurance on the private ambulance service of not less than $1,000,000.00 per occurrence/$3,000,000.00 aggregate, and the manager/owner of the private ambulance service shall be named as an additional insured's on the policy.
(2)
Any person, firm or corporation owning or operating a private business providing ambulance service within the county shall indemnify and hold harmless the county and any resident of the county for any loss or damage resulting from the operations of the ambulance service.
(Ord. of 1-4-2010, § V)
Sec. 22-24. - Supervision and administration.
The board shall specify from time to time the division or agency of the county which shall have supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to the provisions of this article, whenever there are any requirements for the county to take any action or receive any action, the designated division or agency shall act on the behalf of the county.
(Ord. of 1-4-2010, § VI)
Sec. 22-25. - Application for occupation tax certificate; review of application.
No action on any application by an ambulance service for an occupation tax certificate shall be taken until the county board of commissioners has reviewed such application and forwarded their recommendation to the county clerk.
(Ord. of 1-4-2010, § VII)
Sec. 22-26. - Occupation tax certificate fee.
The annual fee for each ambulance service in the county shall be $1,000.00. Said fee shall be levied on an annual basis, based on the calendar year. Each ambulance service shall pay his annual occupation tax certificate fee, no later than January 30 of every calendar year.
(Ord. of 1-4-2010, § VIII)
Sec. 22-27. - Renewal of occupation tax certificate.
Renewal applications shall be submitted by January 1 of the year for which such occupation tax certificate is required. The applicant must continue to meet the requirements set out in this article.
(Ord. of 1-4-2010, § IX)
Secs. 22-28—22-57. - Reserved.
