Chapter 74 - WATER AND SEWERS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 74-1—74-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER (RESERVED)

Secs. 74-19—74-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SEWERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— County board of health empowered to adopt and enforce rules and regulations appropriate to its functions and to prevent and suppress disease and conditions deleterious to the health of its citizens, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-4; county board of health has the power and duty to adopt regulations providing standards and requirements governing on-site sewage management systems within the incorporated and unincorporated area of the county, O.C.G.A. §§ 31-3-5, 31-3-5.1.

Sec. 74-40. - County health department regulations.
(a)
Rules and regulations on individual sewage disposal systems from the health department are to be found in the statewide rules of the department of public health, division of physical health.
(b)
These rules are pursuant to the authority vested in the state board of health and the department of public health under 1964 Ga. Laws, pages 499, 507 and O.C.G.A. §§ 31-5-1—31-5-10.
(Code 2000, § 20-201)
Sec. 74-41. - On-site sewage management.
(a)
The regulations promulgated by the environmental health section of the state department of human resources in the Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems are hereby adopted as the on-site sewage management regulations for the county.
(b)
The procedure for enforcement of this section shall be the procedure as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60—15-10-66, as hereinafter amended. The maximum punishment to be imposed for a violation of this section shall be $500.00 or imprisonment for 60 days, or both. Jurisdiction over violation of this section shall be in the magistrate court of the county.
(c)
As used in this section, the term "inspection warrant" means a warrant authorizing a search or inspection of private property where such a search or inspection is one that is necessary for the enforcement of this section.
(1)
The sanitarian or the sheriff may obtain an inspection warrant under the conditions specified in this section. Such warrant shall authorize the sanitarian or the sheriff to conduct a search or inspection of property, either with or without the consent of the person whose property is to be searched or inspected.
(2)
Inspection warrants shall be issued only by a magistrate judge from the magistrate court, a superior court judge of the Ocmulgee Judicial Circuit, or the state court judge.
(3)
The issuing judge may only issue the warrant when the judge is satisfied that the following conditions are met:
a.
The person seeking the warrant must establish under oath or affirmation that the property to be inspected is to be inspected as a part of a legally authorized program of inspection which includes that property or that there is probable cause for believing that there is a condition, object, activity, or circumstance which legally justifies such an inspection of that property; and
b.
The issuing judge determines that the issuance of the warrant is authorized under this section.
(4)
The inspection warrant shall be validly issued only if it meets the following requirements:
a.
The affidavit required to be made in order to obtain the warrant is attached to the warrant;
b.
The warrant describes, either directly or by reference to the affidavit, the property upon which the inspection is to occur and is sufficiently accurate that the executor of the warrant and the owner or possessor of the property can reasonably determine from it the property of which the warrant authorizes an inspection;
c.
The warrant indicates the conditions, objects, activities, or circumstances which the inspection is intended to check or reveal; and
d.
The warrant refers to the statutory or regulatory provisions sought to be enforced.
(Code 2000, § 20-202)
