ARTICLE IV. - UNSANITARY, UNHEALTHFUL OR UNSAFE CONDITIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Sealing of premises for unsanitary or unsafe, § 26-153.

Sec. 50-111. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Closing means securing and closing a dwelling, building or structure to be vacated.
Dwellings, buildings and structures mean any buildings and structures or parts thereof used and occupied for human habitation or commercial, industrial or business uses or intended to be so used and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any building and structure of any design. The terms "dwellings, buildings and structures" do not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage or processing of crops, livestock, poultry or other farm products.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of the property and all individuals, associations and corporations who have interest of record in the county where the property is located in a dwelling, building or structure, including executors, administrators, guardians and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the city, county or state relating to health, fire or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings or structures in the county or city.
Repair means closing a dwelling, building or structure or the cleaning or removal of debris, trash and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building or structure.
Resident means any person residing in the city on or before the date on which the alleged nuisance arose.
(Code 1983, § 11-63)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-8, 41-2-9.
Sec. 50-112. - Purpose.
(a)
The mayor and council find and declare that in the city there exist dwellings, buildings or structures that are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business uses due to dilapidation and defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; or other conditions rendering such dwellings, buildings or structures unsafe or unsanitary, and the dwellings, buildings or structures are detrimental to the health, safety or welfare or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the city's residents. Further, it is found and declared that in the city on private property from time to time there exist accumulations of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions creating a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity.
(b)
For the purpose of protection of the public health, safety and welfare and pursuant to the authority vested in the city and the mayor and council pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17, the mayor and council establish this article for the abatement of those conditions described in subsection (a) of this section which exist and which may exist in the future.
(Code 1983, § 11-61)
Sec. 50-113. - Enforcement.
The building inspector is authorized to enforce this article.
(Code 1983, § 11-62)
Sec. 50-114. - Powers of building inspector.
In the performance of his duties under this article, the building inspector shall have the power, in addition to any others granted in this article, to:
(1)
Investigate the dwelling conditions in the city in order to determine which dwellings, buildings or structures are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for their current commercial, industrial or business use or are vacant, dilapidated and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes;
(2)
Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive evidence;
(3)
Enter upon premises for the purposes of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(4)
Appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this article; and
(5)
Delegate any of his functions and powers under this article to such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Code 1983, § 11-67)
Cross reference— Building inspector, § 22-31 et seq.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-11.
Sec. 50-115. - Abrogation.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of the municipal court or any city department or agency to enforce any provisions under any local act of the general assembly, the Charter or this Code or regulations on the same subject matter nor to prevent or punish violations thereof, and the powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law.
(Code 1983, § 11-70)
Sec. 50-116. - Appropriations.
The city is authorized to make appropriations from its revenues as it may deem necessary and may accept and apply grants or donations to assist it in carrying out this article, and this is authorized pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-15.
(Code 1983, § 11-69)
Sec. 50-117. - Determination of conditions.
(a)
The building inspector may determine, under existing ordinances, that a dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human inhabitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling or structure that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building or structure; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings or structures; or of other city residents. Such conditions may include the following without limiting the generality of the foregoing:
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects; and
(6)
Uncleanliness.
(b)
The building inspector may determine, under existing ordinances, that a dwelling, building or structure is vacant, dilapidated and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes upon personal observation or report of a law enforcement agency and evidence of drug crimes being committed.
(Code 1983, § 11-66)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-10.
Sec. 50-118. - Complaints, notice and hearing.
(a)
Whenever a request is filed with the building inspector by a public authority or by at least five city residents charging that any dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business use or that there exists an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions creating a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those residing in the vicinity or whenever it appears to the building inspector, on his own motion, that any dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use or is vacant, dilapidated and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes or that there exists an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions creating a public hazard or a general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity, the building inspector shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and any parties in interest in such dwelling, building, structure or private premises a complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that:
(1)
A hearing will be held before the building inspector at a place within the city, fixed not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint;
(2)
The owner and any parties in interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and
(3)
The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in the hearing before the building inspector.
(b)
If, after such notice and hearing, the building inspector determines that the dwelling, building, structure or private premises under consideration is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use or is vacant, dilapidated and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes or there exists an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions creating a public hazard or nuisance to those residing in the vicinity, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order as follows:
(1)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve such dwelling, building or structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial or business use or to vacate and close the dwelling, building or structure as a human habitation;
(2)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such dwelling, building or structure; or
(3)
Requiring the owner or parties in interest to remove from the premises the accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions in the time specified in the order.
In no event shall the mayor and council require removal or demolition of any dwelling, building or structure except upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration or improvement thereof exceeds one-half the value of such dwelling, building or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this article.
(c)
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve or vacate and close or demolish the dwelling, building or structure or to remove an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the building inspector may cause such dwelling, building or structure or accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions to be repaired, altered or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply, the building inspector shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building, dwelling or structure so closed a placard with the following words:
This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial or business use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use is prohibited and unlawful.
(d)
If the owner fails to comply with any order to remove or demolish the dwelling, building or structure or to remove an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions from the private premises, the building inspector may cause such dwelling, building or structure or the accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions to be removed or demolished; provided, however, that the duties of the building inspector, set forth in subsection (c) and this subsection (d), shall not be exercised until the mayor and council shall have by ordinance ordered the building inspector to proceed to effectuate the purposes of this article with respect to the particular property which the building inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation or unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use or creating a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity and which property shall be described in such ordinance.
(e)
The amount of the cost of such repairing, altering or improving and vacating and closing or removal or demolition by the building inspector shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Such lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs of repair, vacating, closing, removal or demolition by the city and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of the cost by the building inspector in the office of the clerk of the mayor and council on a lien docket maintained by the clerk for such purposes. If the dwelling, building or structure is removed or demolished by the building inspector, he shall sell the materials of such dwelling, building or structure and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited by the building inspector in the superior court of the county, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court.
(f)
Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause the removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Code 1983, § 11-64)
Sec. 50-119. - Evidence of service of complaints.
(a)
Complaints or orders issued by the building inspector pursuant to this article shall, in all cases, be served upon each person in possession of the property, each owner and each party in interest, and the return of service signed by the building inspector or an affidavit of service executed by any citizen of this state, reciting that a copy of such complaint or orders was served upon each person in possession of the property, each owner and each party in interest personally or by leaving such copy at the place of his residence shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person in possession, owner and party in interest.
(b)
If any of the owners and parties in interest shall reside outside the city, service shall be perfected by causing a copy of such complaint or orders to be served upon such party by the sheriff or any lawful deputy of the county of the residence of such party or such service may be made by any citizen, and the return of such sheriff or lawful deputy or the affidavit of such citizen that such party was served either personally or by leaving a copy of the complaint or orders at the residence shall be conclusive as to such service.
(c)
Nonresidents of this state shall be served by posting a copy of such complaint or orders in a conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaint or orders. When the address of such nonresidents is known, a copy of such complaint or orders shall be mailed to them by registered or certified mail.
(d)
If either the owner or any party in interest is a minor or an insane person or a person laboring under disabilities, the guardian or other personal representative of such person shall be served, and if such guardian or personal representative resides outside the city and is a resident or a nonresident of the state, the guardian or personal representative shall be served as provided for in subsection (c) of this section or this subsection in such cases. If such minor or insane person or person laboring under disabilities has no guardian or personal representative or if such minor or insane person lives outside the city, whether or not such person is a resident or nonresident of the state, service shall be perfected by serving such minor or insane person personally or by leaving a copy at the place of his residence, which shall be sufficient evidence of the service of such person. For other persons who live outside the city and who are nonresidents of the state, service shall be perfected by serving the judge of the probate court of this county, who shall stand in the place of and protect the rights of such minor or insane person or appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
(e)
If the whereabouts of any owner or party in interest is unknown and the person cannot be ascertained by the building inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence and the building inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect, the service of such complaint or orders upon such person shall be made in the same manner as provided in subsection (c) of this section or service may be perfected upon any person holding himself out as an agent for the property involved.
(f)
A copy of such complaint or orders shall also be filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county, as the proper office for the filing of lis pendens notice in the county, and such filing of the complaint or orders shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law. Any such complaint or orders or an appropriate lis pendens notice may contain a statement to the effect that a lien may arise against the described property and that an itemized statement of such lien is maintained on a lien docket maintained by the clerk of the mayor and council.
(Code 1983, § 11-68)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12.
Sec. 50-120. - Satisfaction of lien.
The city may enforce the collection of any amount due on a lien under this article for removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings or structures, etc., only in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties at interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the city, within 30 days after the perfection of the lien, a sum of money equal to 25 percent of the total amount due and by further paying to the city the remaining balance due on such lien, together with interest at the rate of seven percent per annum, in three equal annual payments, each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment made as prescribed in this subsection.
(2)
Should the property upon which such lien is perfected be sold, transferred or conveyed by the owner or parties at interest at any time prior to the termination of such three-year period, the entire balance due on such lien shall be due and payable to the city.
(3)
Should the amount due on such lien, or any portion thereof, be unpaid after the passage of such three-year period or upon the occurrence of the contingency provided for in subsection (2) of this section, the city may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for alteration, repair, removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings or structures or an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions, in the same manner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358, whose provisions are adopted by reference, and other applicable state statutes. This procedure shall be subject to the right of redemption by any person having any right, title or interest in or lien upon such property, all as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40 et seq.
(Code 1983, § 11-65)
Sec. 50-121. - Delegation.
The mayor and council are authorized to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the county to provide for the administration and enforcement of this article by the building inspection department of the county. For so long as such intergovernmental agreement is in effect the term "building inspector" as used in this article shall mean the building inspector of the county or his designee. At all times, and in any event, the city police department is authorized to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 09-30, § 1, 9-21-2009)
Secs. 50-122—50-145. - Reserved.
