Chapter 54 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Fire prevention at Dalton Municipal Airport, § 18-37; buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; civil emergencies, ch. 34; emergency services, ch. 46; fire lanes, § 114-396; opening hydrants, fireplugs and gates, § 118-64.
State Constitution reference— Power of city to provide fire protection services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(1).
State Law reference— Fire escapes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50 et seq.; forest fires, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-89; transmitting false report of fire, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27; fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. tit. 25; remedy of unsafe conditions upon failure to comply with court order, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-25; local ordinances, regulations or codes relating to fire prevention or protection, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.; state grants for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; electronic security systems, installation, service, etc., by counties or municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-12; crossing fire hose, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-248; Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund, O.C.G.A. § 47-7-1 et seq.; liability of officers, agents, etc., of fire departments for activities, O.C.G.A. § 51-1-30.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 54-1. - Fire hydrants and water mains.
(a)
Requirements for installation of fire hydrants and water mains thereto on property being developed shall be as follows:
(1)
Any person from the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives who constructs or owns any building for industrial or commercial usage, hospital, nursing or medical care home or facility, school or educational building, apartment, condominium, multifamily dwelling or single-family dwelling shall provide for the installation of fire hydrants and water mains thereto on the property being developed in conformity with the remainder of this section and all other applicable laws, regulations, ordinances and codes.
(2)
Any person subject to subsection (a)(1) of this section shall submit a development plan showing the location of fire hydrants and water mains thereto with the board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners (Dalton Utilities) for purposes of approval prior to undertaking any construction. A duplicate of this plan shall be submitted to the city fire marshal contemporaneously with filing with Dalton Utilities. This plan shall be sufficiently detailed showing by metes and bounds the location of all fire hydrants and water mains thereto; the size and specifications of fire hydrants and water mains thereto; and materials to be used, including but not limited to pipes, valves and fittings. For purposes of all approvals under this subsection, the general manager of Dalton Utilities shall be considered as an authorized agent or delegate of Dalton Utilities. The city fire marshal or his designee is authorized to approve hydrant placing and spacing.
(b)
Standards for installation of water mains shall be as follows:
(1)
Nothing less than an eight-inch water main shall be installed in any area except as follows:
a.
A maximum of 300 feet of six-inch water main may be installed on a dead-end street terminating in a permanent cul-de-sac;
b.
A six-inch line less than 300 feet in length may be installed for structures built for industrial or commercial use when such main shall serve only one fire hydrant; and
c.
A six-inch water main may be installed to connect an existing network of six-inch water mains upon approval of Dalton Utilities.
(2)
Dalton Utilities or the city fire department may require a larger water main than those specified in subsection (b)(1) of this section where in its judgment conditions warrant a larger water main for needed fire flow or other reasons.
(3)
The grade of water pipe to be installed pursuant to this section must be approved by Dalton Utilities. The requirements for approval by Dalton Utilities shall include but shall not be limited to hydrostatic testing and sterilization in accordance with the requirements set forth from time to time by Dalton Utilities.
(c)
No person subject to this section shall build, erect or install any sheeting or cover any studs on a job or building site until water mains and fire hydrants thereto shall have been installed, approved by Dalton Utilities and determined to be in an operable condition for firefighting by the city fire department.
(d)
No part of any building or structure subject to this section shall lie beyond a distance of 300 feet of hose lays from a fire hydrant in any area of development consistent with subsection (e) of this section. Development listed in subsection (g) of this section shall not exceed 500 feet of hose lays from a fire hydrant.
(e)
In buildings and structures for industrial and commercial usage, fire hydrants shall be spaced a distance not exceeding 600 feet. For purposes of this subsection, industrial or commercial usage shall include but shall not be limited to motel or hotel use, hospital, nursing or medical care facilities, office space, schools and educational buildings.
(f)
In apartment buildings, condominiums and multifamily residential buildings or structures, fire hydrants shall not be spaced a distance exceeding 500 feet.
(g)
In areas of single-family residential development, fire hydrants shall be spaced a distance not exceeding 1,000 feet.
(h)
Persons subject to this section shall install primary fire hydrants as close to a street intersection as possible, placing intermediate fire hydrants along a street or public right-of-way.
(i)
No fire hydrant shall be used for any purpose other than firefighting purposes without the approval of Dalton Utilities. In its discretion Dalton Utilities may determine that a fire hydrant requires metering for purposes of monitoring water flow. If metering is determined to be necessary by Dalton Utilities on any fire hydrant, the person subject to this section shall be liable for all costs of installation of the meter as well as all water costs for any unauthorized use of the fire hydrant.
(j)
Valves and fire service connections shall conform to the following:
(1)
All valves and fire service connections shall be subject to the approval and standards of Dalton Utilities.
(2)
Fire service connections shall not be less than 18 inches or more than 36 inches above the level of the adjoining ground or pavement. Threads of such connections shall be National Standard threads and shall be uniform with that used by the fire department. Fire hydrants shall have a one-inch square operating nut, a minimum six-inch shoe and a safety shear pin designed to prevent abuse or damage to other operating parts.
(3)
Fire hydrants shall be buried to a minimum depth of three feet in order to be fully frostproof (series S-frostproof with automatic drain valve) to give positive protection against damage by freezing.
(4)
All fire hydrants shall have two 2½-inch hose outlets and one 4½-inch pumper outlet.
(k)
Any fire hydrant installed pursuant to this section, wherever installed, shall be considered an extension of the city's public fire protection system, and the city and Dalton Utilities shall have a perpetual easement for purposes of access, maintenance, repair and use thereof.
(l)
All fire hydrants installed pursuant to this section shall be serviced and maintained by the person subject to this section, and any perpetual easement for maintenance, repair and use in the city or Dalton Utilities shall not be construed to impose any obligation upon the city and the Dalton Utilities to maintain or service any fire hydrant installed pursuant to this section.
(m)
All buildings permitted on the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives shall be subject only to requirements existing on the date of permitting.
(Code 1983, § 10-25; Ord. No. 17-04, § 1, 8-7-2017)
Sec. 54-2. - Uniform act adopted.
(a)
The fire marshal of the city has determined the need to utilize compliance alternatives to the provisions of the rules, regulations, codes, or standards he is empowered to interpret, apply, or enforce under authority of state law or local ordinance.
(b)
Such compliance alternatives are contained in The Uniform Act for the Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings as codified in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200 et. seq. (the "Uniform Act").
(c)
The city hereby adopts the Uniform Act, including all subsequent revisions thereof, by incorporating the same by reference as if fully set out in this section. A true and complete copy thereof shall be maintained in the business offices of the city fire department for public inspection and copying.
(Code 1983, § 10-45;Ord. No. 15-14, § 1, 10-5-2015)
State Law reference— Standing or parking a vehicle within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-203.
Sec. 54-3. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 15-14, § 2, adopted Oct. 5, 2015, repealed former § 54-3 in its entirety which pertained to the examination of fire hydrants and derived from the Code 1983, § 10-46.
Secs. 54-4—54-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Fire safety inspections by certain municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12.

Sec. 54-31. - Adopted.
The current edition of the International Fire Code, as amended and as supplemented by the department of community affairs is adopted, and a true and complete copy thereof shall be maintained in the business offices of the city fire department for public inspection and copying. In the event a conflict arises between the International Fire Code, as amended and supplemented, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner, the more restrictive document shall be enforced.
(Code 1983, § 10-16; Ord. of 9-9-1996, § 1; Ord. No. 02-25, § 1, 12-2-2002; Ord. No. 04-13, § 1, 4-5-2004; Ord. No. 09-33, § 1, 9-21-2009)
Sec. 54-32. - Conflicts with other ordinances.
For any matter in the fire prevention code adopted in section 54-31 which is contrary to city ordinances, the city shall prevail.
(Ord. of 9-9-1996, § 2; Ord. No. 02-25, § 2, 12-2-2002)
Sec. 54-33. - References to duties of officials.
Within the fire prevention code adopted in section 54-31, where references are made to the duties of a certain official named therein, that designated city official who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in such code shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of such code are concerned.
(Ord. of 9-9-1996, § 3)
Sec. 54-34. - Loft/urban dwelling.
A loft/urban dwelling, as defined in the city zoning ordinance shall:
(1)
Be equipped with a National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 13R sprinkler system, and all other floors of the same building, including the basement, shall be equipped with a fire-suppression sprinkler system complying with the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 13;
(2)
Have no doorway or window interconnection between loft/urban dwellings;
(3)
Be located in the rear of the building if a commercial use is carried on in any portion of a floor above the ground level of the building;
(4)
Have an exterior window or door in all sleeping rooms;
(5)
Have hard wired single-station smoke alarms in all sleeping rooms;
(6)
Have smoke alarms installed outside all sleeping rooms and interconnected;
(7)
Have an audio/visual warning device interconnected to the sprinkler system water-flow device in each corridor, with pull station at each exterior exit that will activate the warning device in corridor to dwelling units and the warning device in the area used as business;
(8)
Have emergency lighting and smoke detection in place in all corridors, smoke alarms shall be connected to audio/visual device;
(9)
Have a fire extinguisher in dwelling-unit food-prep areas;
(10)
Have no commercial cooking equipment installed in loft/urban dwelling without meeting the requirements of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 96;
(11)
The building containing the loft/urban dwelling shall be equipped with smoke and heat-detection devises in the business areas which shall activate local alarm and audio/visual device in corridors of dwelling units.
(Ord. No. 04-13, § 2, 4-5-2004; Ord. No. 18-14, §§ 1, 2, 11-5-2018)
Secs. 54-35—54-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE DEPARTMENT[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Authority and powers of fire departments, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 54-61. - Supervision and control.
The fire department shall be under the control of the mayor and council, delegated to the public safety commission, to whom all reports shall be made relative to fires, expenditures or other matters relative to the department.
(Code 1983, § 10-41)
Sec. 54-62. - Authority at fires generally.
The fire chief shall have supreme command of the fire department at all fires, and, in the absence of the chief, the same authority shall devolve upon his designated assistant, identified by rank as deputy chief.
(Code 1983, § 10-47)
Secs. 54-63, 54-64. - Reserved.
Sec. 54-65. - Persons in vicinity of fire.
No person except firefighters, the mayor and council, the police force and owners, their agents and insurance agents shall be allowed within 500 feet or such further distance as the fire chief may designate of a fire without being ordered there by the chief or the officer in command of the fire department.
(Code 1983, § 10-50)
State Law reference— Parking within 500 feet of fire apparatus stopped in answer to fire alarm, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-247.
Sec. 54-66. - Obstructing fire station or fire trucks.
No person shall knowingly or wilfully put trash or any obstruction in front of any fire station or in any way impede fire trucks in going to or from fires.
(Code 1983, § 10-43)
Sec. 54-67. - Reserved.
modified
Editor's note— Ord. No. 23-07, § 1, adopted May 1, 2023, repealed § 54-67, which pertained to riding on apparatus and derived from Code 1983, § 10-44.
Sec. 54-68. - Injuring, tampering with equipment generally.
No person shall wilfully injure or damage in any way or by any means whatever any truck, hose, hook, ladder or house or any other implement, material or apparatus of any kind connected with or used by any fire company in this city or interfere in any way with any line of hose that may be laid and working on a fire or any part of the machinery or material for extinguishing fires.
(Code 1983, § 10-42)
State Law reference— Criminal trespass and other criminal damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21 et seq.
