ARTICLE VI. - NUISANCES.[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 03-21, § 1, adopted Aug. 18, 2003, amended art. VI in its entirety and enacted similar provisions as set out herein. The former art. VI derived from Code 1983, §§ 15-1 and 15-2.
Cross reference— Nuisance birds, § 14-63; disease, insects, hazard or nuisance, § 122-33.

Sec. 50-176. - Public nuisances.
(1)
A public nuisance is defined as:
(a)
Any activity, conduct or occurrence of a continuing or reoccurring nature which tends to the immediate annoyance of the public in general, is manifestly injurious to the public health or safety, or tends greatly to corrupt the manners and morals of the public.
(b)
Any activity, conduct or occurrence within the city which constitutes an endangerment to the environment, public health, or safety as a result of its creation or maintenance and which has been declared a public nuisance by other provisions of this Code.
(2)
A public nuisance may be abated by order of the municipal court.
(3)
Proceedings relating to unfit, unsafe or dangerous buildings or structures shall be brought under Article X of Chapter 22 of the Code.
(Ord. No. 03-21, § 1, 8-18-2003)
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. tit. 41; nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 50-177. - Jurisdiction.
The municipal court of the city shall have jurisdiction to try issues concerning the existence and abatement of public nuisances existing and occurring in the limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 03-21, § 1, 8-18-2003)
Sec. 50-178. - Petition; service of process.
(a)
The petition to abate a public nuisance shall be filed by the city attorney on behalf of the city and shall name as respondent(s) the person or persons alleged responsible for maintenance of the public nuisance. Where the alleged public nuisance involves a condition or activity existing upon private property, the owner(s) of such property and any interested party shall also be named as a respondent. For purposes of this article, "owner of private property" shall mean the holder of the title in fee simple and holder of every mortgage, deed to secure debt, lien or judgment, as recorded in the title records of the county. "Interested party" shall mean an interested party as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-4-77 and persons in possession of said property and premises.
(b)
A copy of the petition and summons shall be served in one of the following ways:
(1)
Personal service upon each owner and interested party if such parties are residents of the county. Service shall be perfected at least ten days prior to the date of hearing.
(2)
Parties residing in the state outside of the county shall be served pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 48, ch. 4, art. 5, or by statutory overnight delivery, mailed at least 14 days prior to the date of hearing.
(3)
Nonresidents of the state, whose mailing address is known, shall be served by certified mail or overnight statutory delivery, return receipt requested, mailed at least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing. For nonresidents whose mailing address is unknown, a notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be published in the Daily Citizen News as a legal advertisement once a week for two consecutive weeks prior to the hearing.
(4)
In the event a party is a minor, estate, an incompetent person, or person laboring under disabilities, the guardian or personal representative of such person shall be served. If such person has no guardian or personal representative, service shall be perfected upon the probate judge of the county, who shall appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
Personal service under this article may be made by any law enforcement officer of the city or the county, or any citizen over the age of 18 years specially appointed by the judge of the municipal court, and an affidavit of return of service shall be executed by such person and filed with the clerk of the municipal court prior to the date of hearing.
(c)
Upon filing of a petition, the clerk of the municipal court shall issue a summons notifying the respondent(s) that a hearing will be held before the court at a date, time and place certain. Such hearing shall be scheduled not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of the petition, with the date thereof to be determined based upon the manner in which the petition must be served. The summons shall notify respondent(s) of the right to file an answer to the petition and to appear, in person or by attorney, and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for hearing.
(Ord. No. 03-21, § 1, 8-18-2003)
Sec. 50-179. - Trial procedure; appeal.
(a)
The burden at trial shall be upon the petitioner to prove the existence of a public nuisance by a preponderance of the evidence. A written finding by any governmental officer, code enforcement officer, public health officer, fire inspector, police officer, or building inspector, based upon physical inspection, that the real property contains an inoperable motor vehicle; appliances, machines, equipment or parts of either; rubbish; building materials or overgrown vegetation; or that a structure or condition existing upon real property is a health, safety, or environmental hazard shall constitute prima-facie evidence that such property, structure, or condition constitutes a public nuisance. Such written finding shall be self-authenticating and may be entered into evidence without further proof.
(b)
Proceedings to abate a public nuisance under this article are an action at law and shall not require the intervention of equity. The question of whether or not a public nuisance exists is neither criminal or quasi-criminal in nature and therefore the court shall not impose a fine as a condition of its order to abate the existence or continuance of the nuisance. The order of abatement shall define with particularity the condition or occurrence found to constitute the nuisance and provide specifically for its cessation or removal within a reasonable time period. The municipal court is empowered to enforce its judgments by contempt.
(c)
Any final judgment entered by the municipal court under this article is subject to review by certiorari in the superior court of the county, upon application filed within 30 days of the service of said order upon the respondent(s).
(d)
In the event the respondent fails to abate the existence or continuance of the nuisance within the time imposed by the court, the city shall be authorized to take all reasonable and necessary actions to abate the nuisance. Costs of the proceedings shall be imposed upon the respondent in all cases wherein the court finds the respondent responsible for the existence or continuance of the nuisance. Upon appropriate findings, the court may order the payment of restitution by the respondent for the actual cost of the abatement. In addition, the cost of abatement shall be a lien upon the subject property until the cost of abatement is paid in full. The city attorney is authorized to take all reasonable and necessary actions to file said lien. Said lien may be collected as provided for in article X, dangerous buildings. The cost of abatement is hereby declared to be a personal debt of the owner of the subject property owed to the City of Dalton and said debt may be collected as provided for the collection of personal debts under state law.
(Ord. No. 03-21, § 1, 8-18-2003; Ord. No. 21-01, § 2, 3-1-2021)
Sec. 50-180. - Cause of action; examples of public nuisances.
Conditions or activities occurring on private property that may constitute public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Stagnant water on premises.
(2)
Any real property on which there has been allowed to accumulate any dead or decaying matter; weeds; vegetation; or any fruit, vegetable, animal or rodent or other unsanitary or unsafe conditions upon premises which is odorous or capable of causing disease or annoyance to the residents, occupants, or the inhabitants of the city.
(3)
The generation of smoke or fumes in sufficient amounts to cause odor or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city.
(4)
Any discharge of pollutants off the real property on which the discharge originates, except pursuant to a valid permit and discharges resulting from fire suppression activities.
(5)
The pollution of public water or the injection of matter into the sewerage system which would be damaging thereto.
(6)
Maintaining a dangerous or diseased animal or fowl.
(7)
Obstruction of a public street, highway or sidewalk without a permit.
(8)
Loud or unusual noises which are detrimental or annoying to the public.
(9)
All walls, trees and buildings that may endanger persons or property.
(10)
Any business or building where illegal activities are habitually and commonly conducted in such a manner as to reasonably suggest that the owner or operator of the business or building was aware of the illegal activities and failed to reasonably attempt to prevent such activities.
(11)
Unused iceboxes, refrigerators and the like unless the doors, latches or locks thereof are removed.
(12)
Any other condition constituting a nuisance under state law.
(13)
Abandoned vehicles, which are defined as vehicles which are not road worthy, inoperable, do not have current license plates and are not located completely within a fully enclosed, standing and permanent structure.
(14)
Any building, structure, or place used for the purpose of lewdness, prostitution, or other unlawful sexual activity.
(15)
Any building, structure, or place used for the purpose of gang related or drug related activity.
(16)
Any building, structure, or place which, due to dilapidation, age or obsolescence, has defects which increase the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities; which lack adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; or where other conditions exist rendering such building, structure, or place unsafe or unsanitary.
(17)
Any building, structure, or other place or location where any activity is conducted, performed, or maintained in violation of local, state, or federal law which constitute a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of the city.
(18)
The condition of a private storm water drainage pipe or ditch causing backup, drainage, or emptying outside the drainage way of the public right-of-way or another private property.
(Ord. No. 03-21, § 1, 8-18-2003; Ord. No. 21-01, § 3, 3-1-2021)
Sec. 50-181. - Additional procedures and remedies.
The procedure and remedy for the abatement of a nuisance as set forth in this article shall be in addition to any and all other applicable abatement procedures and remedies available under statutory, regulatory or article provisions, whether federal, state or local, and shall not be construed to preclude any such procedure and remedy.
(Ord. No. 03-21, § 1, 8-18-2003)
Sec. 50-182. - Delegation.
The mayor and council are authorized to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the county to provide for the enforcement of this article by the building inspection department of the county. For so long as such intergovernmental agreement is in effect the term "building inspector" as used in this article shall mean the building inspector of the county or his designee. At all times, and in any event, the city police department is authorized to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 09-30, § 3, 9-21-2009)
Sec. 50-183. - Revocation of city license, permit, etc.
Upon the order of the mayor, any license, privilege or permit granted by the City of Dalton may be suspended or revoked for the failure to abate the existence or continuance of a public nuisance as ordered by the court or as ordered by the chief of police within the time period prescribed for the abatement.
(Ord. No. 21-01, § 4, 3-1-2021)
Sec. 50-184. - Summary abatement of public nuisance.
(a)
The chief of police, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized to provide written notice to the owner, occupant, or agent of the subject property that a public nuisance exists upon the subject property. Said notice shall be personally served upon the owner, occupant, or agent. In the event the owner, occupant, or agent cannot be located for service, the notice shall be served by U.S. mail to the owner of the subject property at the address maintained by the tax commissioner of Whitfield County for real property taxes. Said notice shall provide a detailed statement of the conditions constituting the nuisance and shall provide a deadline to abate the existence or continuance of the nuisance.
(b)
In the event the owner, occupant, or agent does not abate the existence or continuance of the nuisance as ordered by the chief of police within the time period prescribed for the abatement, then the city shall be authorized to take all reasonable and necessary actions to abate the nuisance. The cost of abatement shall be a lien upon the subject property until the cost of abatement is paid in full. The city attorney is authorized to take all reasonable and necessary actions to file said lien. Said lien may be collected as provided for in article X, dangerous buildings. The cost of abatement is hereby declared to be a personal debt of the owner of the subject property owed to the City of Dalton and said debt may be collected as provided for the collection of personal debts under state law.
(Ord. No. 21-01, § 5, 3-1-2021)
Sec. 50-185. - Emergency abatement of public nuisance.
(a)
The chief of police is hereby authorized to determine that the existence or maintenance of a nuisance constitutes an emergency to the health, safety, and welfare of the owner, occupant, or general public. The chief of police shall notify the public works director of the existence of an emergency condition requiring abatement. The city, its employees, and agents shall be authorized to take all reasonable and necessary actions to abate the emergency conditions of the nuisance.
(b)
Once the emergency condition has been abated, the chief of police, or his or her designee, shall provide written notice to the owner, occupant, or agent of the subject property that an emergency condition existed upon the subject property and shall provide a detailed summary of the emergency conditions and all actions taken by the city to abate said emergency conditions. Said notice shall be served as provided in section 50-184.
(c)
The cost of abatement shall be a lien upon the subject property until the cost of abatement is paid in full. The city attorney is authorized to take all reasonable and necessary actions to file said lien. Said lien may be collected as provided for in article X, dangerous buildings. The cost of abatement is hereby declared to be a personal debt of the owner of the subject property owed to the City of Dalton and said debt may be collected as provided for the collection of personal debts under state law.
(Ord. No. 21-01, § 6, 3-1-2021)
Sec. 50-186. - Powers of chief of police.
In the performance of his duties under this article, the chief of police shall have the power, in addition to any others granted in this article, to:
(a)
Investigate the conditions in the city in order to identify the existence or maintenance of public nuisances;
(b)
Enter upon private property for the purposes of making examinations of public nuisances; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(c)
Appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this article;
(d)
Delegate any of his functions and powers under this article to such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Ord. No. 21-01, § 7, 3-1-2021)
Secs. 50-187—50-205. - Reserved.
