CODE OF ORDINANCES CITY OF DALTON, GEORGIA
____________
Adopted March 19, 2001
____________
Published in 2001 by Order of the Mayor and Council
____________
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF
DALTON, GEORGIA
AT THE TIME OF THIS CODIFICATION
____________
Raymond A. Elrod, Sr.
Mayor
____________
Bobby J. Grant
Charles G. Whitener, Sr.
Terry L. Christie
Michael D. Robinson
City Council
____________
James C. Sanders
City Administrator
____________
James H. Bisson, III
City Attorney
____________
Faye L. Martin
City Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a recodification of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of Dalton, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 1983 Code, as supplemented through December 19, 1994, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the mayor and council. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 1983 Code, as supplemented, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS CHT:1
CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE AND DISPOSITION TABLES CHTCT:1
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE RLCT:1
SPECIAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE SACT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up-to-date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Milton E. Lefkoff, Senior Code Attorney, and Jody Wilson, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Mr. James H. Bisson III, City Attorney, Ms. Faye L. Martin, City Clerk, and Ms. Bernadette Macon, Deputy City Clerk, for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Dalton, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Dalton, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Dalton, Georgia. 2001.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 01-08
An Ordinance Adopting and Enacting a 2001 Revised Code of Ordinances for the City of Dalton; Establishing the Same; Providing for the Repeal of Certain Ordinances Not Included Therein; Providing for the Manner of Amending and Supplementing Such Code; Providing for an Official Publisher for Said 2001 Revised Code of Ordinances; and Providing When Such 2001 Revised Code of Ordinances and this Ordinance Shall Become Effective.
WHEREAS, the Mayor and Council of the City of Dalton find that the last codification and revision of the Code of Ordinances for the City of Dalton was adopted and enacted on May 2, 1983; and
WHEREAS, the 1983 Code of Ordinances has been revised by numerous other ordinances of subsequent Mayors and Councils of the City of Dalton; and
WHEREAS, the 1983 Code of Ordinances contains certain provisions which are outdated or inconsistent with governmental practice; and
WHEREAS, it is considered desirable now to provide a current revision in the form of a 2001 Revised Code of Ordinances for the City of Dalton;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Council of the City of Dalton and by the authority of the same, it is hereby ordained as follows:
Section 1. That the 2001 Revised Code of Ordinances, consisting of Chapters 1 to 126, each inclusive, is hereby adopted and enacted as the "2001 Revised Code of Ordinances, City of Dalton, Georgia", which may be cited to as the "Revised Code of 2001", which Revised Code of 2001 shall supersede all general and permanent ordinances of the City of Dalton adopted on or before December 4, 2000 to the extent provided in section 2 hereof.
Section 2. That all provisions of such Revised Code of 2001 shall be in full force and effect from and after the date that is the fifth (5 th ) day following the publication after passage of this Adopting Ordinance in two (2) public places within the city, and all ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the City of Dalton adopted on final passage on or before December 4, 2000, and not included in such Revised Code of 2001 or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of such Revised Code of 2001.
Section 3. That the repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is now repealed by this ordinance upon the effective date of the Revised Code of 2001.
Section 4. That any person convicted of a violation of such Revised Code of 2001 shall be punished as prescribed in section 1-7 thereof, or as provided in any other applicable section of such Revised Code of 2001.
Section 5. That any and all additions and amendments to such Revised Code of 2001, when enacted in such form as to indicate the intention of the Mayor and Council of the City of Dalton to make the same a part of such Revised Code of 2001, shall be deemed to be incorporated in such Revised Code of 2001, so that reference to such Revised Code of 2001 shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
Section 6. That the Municipal Code Corporation of Tallahassee, Florida, be and is hereby appointed until further action of the Mayor and Council, or of any subsequent Mayor and Council, as the official publisher of the 2001 Revised Code of Ordinances of the City of Dalton, for purposes of publishing the Revised Code of 2001 hereby adopted and enacted and for supplementing the same from time to time as instructed by the Mayor and Council of the City of Dalton.
Section 7. That in case of the amendment of any section of such Revised Code of 2001 for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in section 1-7 of the Revised Code of 2001, shall apply to the section as amended, or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the general penalty, is provided in another section of the Revised Code of 2001 shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
Section 8 All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict, are hereby repealed. Any ordinance adopted after December 4, 2000, which amends or refers to another ordinance which has been codified in such Revised Code of 2001, shall be construed as if it amends or refers to like provisions of such Revised Code of 2001.
SO ORDAINED, this 19 th day of March, 2001.
The foregoing Ordinance received its first reading on 3-05-01 and a second reading on 3-19-01. Upon second reading a motion for passage of the ordinance was made by Alderman Christie, second by Alderman Robinson and upon the question the vote is 4 ayes, 0 nays and the Ordinance is adopted.
EXPAND
/s/  Raymond Elrod
      Mayor
    ATTEST:
EXPAND
/s/  Bernadette Macon
      Deputy City Clerk
    A true copy of the foregoing Ordinance has been published in two public places within the City of Dalton for five (5) consecutive days following passage of the above-referenced Ordinance as of 3-24-01.
EXPAND
/s/  Bernadette Macon
      Deputy City Clerk
      City of Dalton
