ARTICLE IV. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 05-03, §§ 1—15, adopted Feb. 21, 2005, substantially amended and reorganized art. IV to read as herein set out. Specific details of said amendments and reorganization can be found in the Charter and Related Laws Disposition Table and the Charter Comparative Table.
Charter cross references—City constituted body corporate and politic, § 1-1; each ward entitled to councilmember, to be elected by entire city, § 3-14; qualifications of aldermen, § 3-15; election, term of mayor and aldermen, § 3-17; special elections to fill vacancies in elective offices, § 3-19.
State Constitution reference— Supplementary municipal powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
State Law reference— General municipal powers, duties and liabilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; municipal home rule, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

Sec. 4-1. - Municipal authority constituted.
The governing body of the City of Dalton, known as the mayor and council of said city, shall consist of a mayor and four (4) councilmembers, instead of a mayor and eight (8) councilmen, as at present constituted.
(1921 Ga. Laws, page 864, § 1; Ord. No. 18-06, § 3, 5-21-2018)
Sec. 4-2. - Scope of authority.
(a)
All the powers, legislative, administrative, executive and judicial, now possessed by the governing body of said city, shall devolve upon and be possessed by in as full and ample a manner as they now exist, the mayor and councilmembers of said city as herein constituted, with the right on the part of the mayor and councilmembers to delegate to employees any or all of the administrative and executive duties devolving upon them, as they may from time to time deem proper.
(b)
The city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future Constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter. The city shall have all powers of self government not otherwise prohibited by this Charter or by general law.
(c)
The powers of the city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular power shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of the city.
(1921 Ga. Laws, page 864, § 2; Ord. No. 05-03, § 1, 2-21-2005; Ord. No. 18-06, § 3, 5-21-2018)
Sec. 4-3. - Quorum; voting.
Except as otherwise provided herein, three (3) councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact the business of the mayor and council. In the event only two (2) councilmembers are eligible to vote on a matter due to the absence, abstention or recusal of two (2) councilmembers, then the mayor and two (2) councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact the business of the mayor and council. The mayor pro tempore acting in the absence of the mayor shall be counted as a councilmember for the purposes of determining a quorum and voting. Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the affirmative vote of three (3) councilmembers shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion. In the event the quorum is comprised of the mayor and two (2) councilmembers, then the affirmative vote of the mayor and two (2) councilmembers shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion. In the case of a tie vote among the four (4) councilmembers, the vote of two (2) councilmembers and the mayor shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion. Voting on the adoption of ordinances, resolutions, or motions shall be by voice vote and the vote shall be recorded in the minutes of the proceedings, but any member of the mayor and council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote and such vote shall be recorded in the minutes of the proceedings. An abstention or recusal shall not be counted as a vote for or against.
(Ord. No. 13-04, § 1, 6-17-2013; Ord. No. 18-06, § 3, 5-21-2018)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 13-04, § 1, adopted June 17, 2013, repealed the former § 4-3, and enacted a new § 4-3 as set out herein. The former § 4-3 pertained to "quorum designated" and derived from 1874 Ga. Laws, page 181, § 7.
Sec. 4-4. - Mayor pro tem.
(1)
Authority to designate; function. The mayor and council of the City of Dalton be, and are, hereby authorized to elect a mayor pro tem, who shall be known by such designation, and who shall have and exercise all the duties, functions, and powers conferred by law or ordinance upon the mayor of said city when the mayor is absent from the city, and during the sickness or other temporary disqualification of such mayor.
(2)
Selection, term, oath, duties. As soon as practicable after the installation of any mayor of said city the mayor and council may elect a member of council to be mayor pro tem during the term for which such mayor was elected. Such mayor pro tem shall take the oath prescribed for the mayor, and thereafter shall have the authority, during the absence of the mayor from the city, or his sickness or other temporary inability to act, to exercise all authority, do all acts, and perform all duties required of the mayor by law or ordinance, and all the acts of such mayor pro tem done under the provisions of this act [section] shall be as valid in all respects as if done by the mayor of said city.
(3)
Vacancy. Should the office of mayor pro tem become vacant from any cause, the mayor and council may at their option fill the vacancy by the election of a mayor pro tem for the unexpired term.
(4)
Compensation. Such mayor pro tem shall be paid for his services as [at] such compensation not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25.00), as the mayor and council shall fix.
(5)
Termination of office. The mayor and council by majority vote may at any time and for any cause declare such office vacant, and immediately upon such action being taken, the term, duties and authority, and pay of such mayor pro tem shall cease.
(1895 Ga. Laws, page 207, §§ 1—5)
Sec. 4-5. - Salaries of mayor and councilmen.
By ordinance duly adopted by the mayor and council of the City of Dalton, the mayor of the City of Dalton shall receive an annual salary of seven thousand two hundred dollars ($7,200.00) payable in equal monthly installments from the general and unrestricted funds of the City of Dalton. The councilmen of the City of Dalton shall receive an annual salary of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) payable in equal monthly installments from the general and unrestricted funds of the City of Dalton.
(1874 Ga. Laws, page 181, § 20; 1877 Ga. Laws, page 155, § 1; 1884-85 Ga. Laws, page 381, § 9; 1886-87 Ga. Laws, page 529, § 1; 1902 Ga. Laws, page 390, § 1; 1921 Ga. Laws, page 864, § 11; 1951 Ga. Laws, page 2202, § 2; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 3014, § 1; Ord. of 9-9-1995, § 2)
Editor's note— Provisions of the above section are superseded by O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4. Some of such provisions are omitted, as instructed by the city. See § 2-29 of the Code of Ordinances.
Sec. 4-6. - Continuance of existing acts, ordinances.
All laws contained in the several acts granting charter powers and privileges to said city, or the mayor and councilmembers thereof, and the several acts amendatory thereof, and all ordinances or any part, clause or section of any such act or acts now in force in said city, which is not in conflict with this act, are hereby declared of full force and effect.
(1908 Ga. Laws, page 579, § 20; Ord. No. 18-06, § 3, 5-21-2018)
Editor's note— Although not expressly amendatory thereof, the foregoing section has been codified as superseding 1874 Ga. Laws, page 181, § 23, providing for the continuance of existing ordinances and bylaws.
Sec. 4-7. - City organization continued; ordinances to take effect after publication.
The organization of the city government shall remain as it now is, except as it may be changed to conform with this charter, until the first annual election under this charter; but the officers of said city shall be governed by and conform to the provisions of this charter so far as the same may be practicable, and any ordinance or bylaws that may be adopted in conformity to this charter shall be of force and take effect from and after the same shall have been published in two (2) public places in said city for five (5) days, or after one insertion in a newspaper published in said city.
(1874 Ga. Laws, page 181, § 24)
Sec. 4-8. - Corporate powers—Examples.
(a)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at-large of animals and fowl, and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder;
(b)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(c)
Building regulation. To regulate and to license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing, and building trades;
(d)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for the collection of regulatory fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions as authorized by Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter by enacted; to permit and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such regulatory fees and taxes; and to revoke such permits after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees;
(e)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(f)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations;
(g)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(h)
Environmental protection. To protect and preserve the natural resources and environment through the preservation and improvement of air quality, the restoration and maintenance of water resources, the control of erosion and sedimentation, the management of solid and hazardous waste, and other necessary actions for the protection of the environment;
(i)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(j)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal, and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes of fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(k)
General health, safety and welfare. To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city, and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(l)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(m)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(n)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and other public property in the city, to provide for commitment of such persons to any jail, or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate governmental officials;
(o)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking upon or across the streets, roads, alleys and walkways of the city;
(p)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions and agencies of the city, and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
(q)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(r)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, lease, grant an easement in and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the City.
In respect to the City's lease of any of its real property dedicated to public use pursuant to this Charter, the authority of the City to lease its real estate or enter into any time leases or contracts for the use, operation, or management of any real property of the municipal corporation, shall include a lease or leases to private persons not exceeding thirty-five (35) years upon terms negotiated fully at arms length between the City of Dalton and such private person or persons and without necessity of sealed bid but upon such other terms as may result in fair rental value either in money or in-kind or both, and provided lessee or contractor is required to:
(i)
provide and maintain in force and effect throughout the terms of such lease or contract sufficient liability insurance, in an amount not less than $1 million per claim, no aggregate, naming the municipality as a named insured;
(ii)
assume sole responsibility for or incur liability for any injury to person or property caused by any action or omission of any person while on the property and shall agree to indemnify the municipality and hold it harmless from any claim, suit, or demand made by any person; and
(iii)
agree to indemnify the municipality and hold it harmless from any claim, suit, or demand arising out of any improvements of the property or any indebtedness or obligations incurred by the lessee or contractor in making any such improvements to such property.
(s)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city, and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(t)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, cable television, telecommunications, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties, and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same;
(u)
Ordinances, resolutions and regulations. To make, establish, and adopt such ordinances, resolutions, policies, and rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience, and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof and for preserving the health, peace, order, and good government of the city, provided that no ordinances shall be enacted inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, or the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(v)
Nuisance. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(w)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(x)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning; and to provide subdivision regulation and construction regulation as the mayor and council deems necessary and reasonable to insure a safe, health, and aesthetically pleasing community;
(y)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen, and to establish, operate, or contract for a police and a fire fighting agency;
(z)
Public hazards: Removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(aa)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and to provide any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 22 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or such other applicable laws as are of may hereafter be enacted.
(bb)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(cc)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(dd)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for, or impose taxes on public utilities and public service companies; and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and Standards & conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations of the Public Service Commission;
(ee)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(ff)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan for officers and employees of the city;
(gg)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve;
(hh)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system, and to levy on those to whom sewers and sewerage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge or sewer tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system;
(ii)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse, and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials, and to provide for the sale of such items;
(jj)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawn shops, the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors, and the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and the inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows of any kind, by taxation or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, and massage parlors;
(kk)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(ll)
Taxes: Ad valorem. To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(mm)
Taxes: Other. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law;
(nn)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles;
(oo)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(pp)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary or desirable to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
(Ord. No. 05-03, §§ 2, 3, 2-21-2005; Ord. No. 22-09, § 2, 5-16-2022)
Sec. 4-9. - Reserved.
Sec. 4-10. - Construction, operation of drainage and sewerage systems.
Said city is hereby authorized and empowered to buy, build, own and operate systems of drainage and sewerage throughout said city, or in any particular part of said city, and shall have the right through its mayor and council to elect proper officers or agents to build and operate said systems and provide for their compensation, and to provide by ordinances for property connections with such sewerage or drainage, to force such connection, to fix the charges for such connection, and force collection of same.
(1908 Ga. Laws, page 579, § 19; Ord. No. 05-03, § 8, 2-21-2005)
Charter cross references—Right to condemn land for public purposes, § 1-3; power of eminent domain restricted as to private utilities, § 1-4; organization, authority of board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners, § 8-16 et seq.
Sec. 4-11. - Electric light and power; construction, operation, maintenance of plant, transmission system.
(1)
Authority of city. The City of Dalton shall have authority to maintain therein an electric lighting plant and power plant, for the purpose of furnishing electricity for lights and power to the inhabitants thereof. Said city, through its proper municipal authorities, shall have authority to erect, maintain, add to and do all things necessary to the maintenance of such plant, shall have authority to build lines and wires for the transmission of electricity anywhere within the corporate limits of said city, and may, in its discretion, do all things necessary to secure the proper maintenance and operation of said plant, such as wiring the houses of its citizens for the purpose of furnishing them with electricity for light and power, and any and all things which they may deem proper in their discretion as city officials.
(2)
Ratification of prior acts. Insofar as said city may have used any of the powers herein given without express legislative authority in building and operating a light and power plant along the lines herein authorized, their actings and doings are confirmed and approved.
(3)
Powers cumulative. Insofar as the charter authorities herein given may add to any of the various acts incorporating the City of Dalton, said acts and all of them be, and they are, hereby amended by adding such authority to the powers of said city.
(1912 Ga. Laws, page 814, §§ 1—3; Ord. No. 05-03, § 10, 2-21-2005)
Sec. 4-12. - Authorization, issuance of revenue certificates for extension of electric, gas system, ratified; validation, delivery of certificates.
All proceedings heretofore adopted by said city for the authorization and issuance of revenue certificates for the purpose of extending the electric and gas system of said city, and all of the provisions appearing in any such proceedings for the security of such certificates, and such certificates when issued pursuant thereto, whether or not changes are made subsequent to the passage of this act and prior to the issuance of such certificates, are hereby ratified, validated and confirmed and declared to be legal and validly binding, and such certificates are hereby declared to have all of the quality of negotiable instruments.
Said city is hereby authorized to bring proceedings in the superior court of Whitfield County for the validation of said certificates in the manner and with the effect provided in the "Revenue Certificate Law of 1937" [Revenue Bond Law] (Section 87-801 to Section 87-825 inclusive, Georgia Code Annotated [O.C.G.A. §§ 36-82-60—36-82-85]). Following the completion of the validation of such certificates, the council is authorized to deliver such certificates to the purchasers thereof in accordance with the terms of sale and said council is authorized to do all things necessary to sell and to complete the authorization of such certificates and to make delivery thereof.
(1955 Ga. Laws, page 2731, § 2; Ord. No. 05-03, § 12, 2-21-2005)
Charter cross reference—Organization, authority of board of water, light and sinking fund commissioners, § 8-16 et seq.
Sec. 4-13. - Malpractice in office.
In case the mayor or any member of council, while in office, shall be guilty of wilful neglect, malpractice in, or abuse of said office, he, or they, shall be liable to be indicted before the superior court of Whitfield County; and on conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each and every offense, and shall, moreover, be removed from office; which fine or fines shall be paid over to the city clerk for the use of said city.
(1853-54 Ga. Laws, page 237; Ord. No. 05-03, § 14, 2-21-2005)
Editor's note— 1937 Ga. Laws, page 1723, § 16, codified as § 1-6, abolished the office of treasurer and provided for assumption of the duties thereof by the city depository. To that extent the foregoing section is superseded. As instructed by the city, "treasurer" has been changed to "clerk."
