Chapter 14 - ANIMALS AND FOWL[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal control officer means an employee of the police department of the city whose duties specifically include enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
Dangerous dog means any dog that, according to the records of an appropriate authority:
(1)
Inflicts a severe injury on a human being without provocation, on public or private property; or
(2)
Aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of humans without provocation after the dog has been classified as a potentially dangerous dog after the owner has been notified of such classification.
Nuisance means an act or situation caused by or contributed to by an animal with or without the permission of the animal's owner or keeper, which act or situation substantially interferes with the rights of citizens to enjoyment of life or property or unreasonably annoys humans or endangers the life or health of persons or other animals. Such a nuisance shall include, but shall not be limited to the following acts by an animal:
(1)
Molesting or threatening to molest pedestrians;
(2)
Chasing vehicles;
(3)
Causing loss or damage to the person or property of someone other than the owner or keeper of the animal; or
(4)
Continually and repeatedly howling, barking, whining or otherwise making noises which cause unreasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to neighbors and others.
Owner means any natural persons or any legal entity, including but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, firm or trust, owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, or having custody or control of a dog within the territorial boundaries of the city.
Potentially dangerous dog means any dog that has, without provocation, bitten a human being on public or private property.
Proper closure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, while on the owner's property, securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence, or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top, and, if the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height, and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner so as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog.
Rabies control officer means an employee of the county board of health whose specific duties include enforcement of the rabies control rules and regulations of the county.
Records of an appropriate authority means records of any state, county, or municipal law enforcement agency, records of any county or municipal animal control agency; records of any county board of health; records of any federal, state, or local court; or records maintained by the animal control officer pursuant to this chapter
Severe injury means any physical injury that results in broken bones or disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or a physical injury that results in death.
Secs. 14-2—14-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ANIMAL CONTROL

Sec. 14-21. - City designated bird sanctuary.
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
Sec. 14-22. - Birds and wild fowl protected; exception.
It shall be unlawful to trap, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests; provided, however, if vandal birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city, such authority is authorized to approve the disposal of such birds. Any individual may prevent any vandal birds from destroying crops or fruit without the authority of the health officer.
Sec. 14-23. - Hunting prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to hunt within the city limits.
Sec. 14-24. - Livestock and fowl prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to have livestock or fowl in the city limits.
Sec. 14-25. - Livestock running at large.
modified
(a)
Impoundment; redemption; fees. The police are required to seize and impound any livestock found at large in violation of section 14-24, and to safely keep the same until it shall be redeemed by its owner, upon the payment of a pound fee in the amount established by the city council for each head impounded, and all costs of care and feeding during impoundment.
(b)
Sale of animals not redeemed. In case said livestock shall not be redeemed within five days from the date of its seizure, the police shall cause the same to be advertised and sold as an estray, as provided by the laws of the state, if the owner is unknown. But if the owner is known, and he shall fail to redeem such livestock within five days after notice of its impoundment, he shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
State Law reference— Livestock running at large prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-3.
Sec. 14-26. - Animal carcasses.
No person shall deposit any carcass of any dead animal upon any ground, public or private, within the city.
State Law reference— Disposal of diseased, disabled, or dead animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.
Secs. 14-27—14-37. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DOGS AND CATS[2]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 14-38—14-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DOG CONFINEMENT AND CONTROL

Sec. 14-56. - Restraint required.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog to allow the same to run upon the streets, sidewalks or alleys of the city, unless said dog is accompanied by its owner or other person having charge of said dog, in which event said dog must be tied with a cord or chain of sufficient strength to hold such dog.
Sec. 14-57. - Control of females in heat.
No person owning or having custody of any female dog shall permit such female dog off the premises of the owner or person having control of such dog when such dog shall be in heat, unless the same is under control and attached to a leash as herein provided.
Sec. 14-58. - Duty of dog and cat owners.
The owner and keeper of every dog and cat shall keep it from becoming a nuisance and from endangering or injuring any person. As a consequence thereof, it is the duty of every owner or keeper of any animal to exercise reasonable care and to take all reasonable steps and precautions necessary to protect persons, property, and animals from injury, loss, or damage that might be caused by or arise from the dog or cat's behavior, regardless of whether such behavior is motivated by mischievousness, playfulness or ferocity.
Sec. 14-59. - Parental responsibility.
If the owner or keeper of any animal is a minor, the parent or guardian of such minor shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with this section.
Sec. 14-60. - Nuisance.
If an animal is kept in such a manner as constitutes a nuisance as defined in this chapter or by state statute, a proceeding to abate the nuisance may be brought by the party aggrieved or the city. An animal found by the court to constitute a nuisance may be impounded by the city if the owner, after reasonable opportunity to do so, fails to abate the nuisance as ordered by the court.
Secs. 14-61—14-78. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - VACCINATION AND REGISTRATION

Sec. 14-79. - Adoption of county rules.
All dogs and cats shall be inoculated against rabies in accordance with the procedures set forth in the rabies control rules and regulations of the county, as promulgated and from time to time amended by the county board of health, which by reference are expressly incorporated as part of this section as if fully set out herein. Violation of the adopted rules and regulations may be enforced by the rabies control officer in the municipal court of the city, upon citation, as an offense against the city.
Sec. 14-80. - Vaccination tags.
The numbered vaccination tag, issued by a licensed veterinarian upon inoculation, shall be attached to a collar or harness and worn by the animal at all times.
Secs. 14-81—14-103. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - IMPOUNDMENT

Sec. 14-104. - Dogs or cats running at large.
Every dog found roaming or running free, whether tagged or untagged, shall be impounded; every tagged or untagged cat found roaming or running free shall be impounded. If a tagged animal is impounded, and it is found not to be registered or its current registration has expired, the owner may be cited for violation of this section.
Sec. 14-105. - Care of impounded animals.
All animals impounded by the city shall be held in a humane manner by the city or in accordance with an agreement between the city and some other entity as may from time to time be determined and established by action of the local government.
Sec. 14-106. - Period of impoundment; fees.
If a cat or dog is impounded for running at large or for creating a nuisance, the animal shall be retained and impounded for a period of not less than 48 hours unless previously claimed by the animal's owner, in which case said owner shall pay to the city clerk an impoundment fee and a daily boarding fee in the amount established by the city council, plus any veterinary or other incidental expenses associated with the proper care of the animal during the period of impoundment. If the dog or cat is not claimed within 48 hours, the city shall be authorized to dispose of the animal in a humane manner.
Sec. 14-107. - Additional penalties.
Nothing in this section relating to impoundment and fees charged in connection therewith shall limit the liability of the owner to the city for violation of this chapter.
Secs. 14-108—14-127. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DANGEROUS DOGS[3]

Sec. 14-128. - Registration required.
It shall be unlawful for an owner to have or possess within the city a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog without a certificate of registration issued in accordance with this article.
Sec. 14-129. - Report; investigation.
Upon receiving a report of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog within the animal control officer's jurisdiction from a law enforcement agency, animal control agency, rabies control officer, or the county board of health, the animal control officer shall conduct such investigations and inquiries with regard to such report as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this article.
Sec. 14-130. - Classification; notice to owner.
When the animal control officer classifies a dog as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, and the dog is not registered as required by this article, notice shall be given to the dog's owner in writing, by certified mail, to the owner's last known address of such classification or reclassification. The notice shall be deemed complete upon mailing.
Sec. 14-131. - Contents of notice.
modified
The notice to the owner shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Findings. The notice shall include a summary of the animal control officer's finding that formed the basis for the dog's classification as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
(2)
Date. The notice shall be dated.
(3)
Notice of right to request hearing. The notice shall state that the owner, within 15 days after the date shown on the notice, has a right to request a hearing on the animal control officer's determination that the dog is a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog before the governing authority.
(4)
Effect of failure to request hearing. The notice shall state that if a hearing is not requested, the animal control officer's determination that the dog is a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog will become effective for all purposes under this section on the day after the last day on which the owner has a right to request a hearing.
Sec. 14-132. - Hearing procedure.
modified
(a)
Time for hearing. When the city receives a request for a hearing, it shall schedule such hearing within 30 days after receiving the request.
(b)
Notice of hearing. The city shall notify the dog owner, in writing, by certified mail, of the date, time and place of the hearing.
(c)
Conduct of hearing. At the hearing, the owner of the dog shall be given the opportunity to testify and present evidence, and in addition thereto, the city shall receive such other evidence and hear such other testimony as the city may find reasonably necessary to make a determination either to sustain, modify, or overrule the animal control officer's classification of the dog.
(d)
Notice of determination; effective date. Within ten days after the date of the hearing, the city shall notify the owner in writing by certified mail of its determination on the matter. If such determination is that the dog is a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog, the notice shall specify it is effective on the third day following the date of receipt by the owner.
Sec. 14-133. - Requirements for registration.
modified
Subject to the requirements of this section, the animal control officer shall issue a certificate of registration to the owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents to the animal control officer or if the animal control officer finds sufficient evidence of:
(1)
Proper enclosure. A proper enclosure to confine the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog.
(2)
Warning sign. The posting of the premises where the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog is located with a clearly visible sign warning that there is a dangerous dog on the premises. The sign required to be posted must substantially conform to the design provided by the department of natural resources.
(3)
Registration fee. Payment to the city of a fee in the amount established by the city council to defray the cost of administering and enforcing this section.
(4)
Liability insurance. A policy of insurance in the amount of at least $15,000.00 issued by an insurer authorized to transact business within the state insuring the owner of the dog against liability for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog.
(5)
Surety bond. A surety bond in the amount of $15,000.00 or more issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in the state, payable to any person or persons injured by the dangerous dog.
Sec. 14-134. - Annual registration renewal.
Certificates of registration shall be renewed on an annual basis. At the time of annual renewal of a certificate of registration, the animal control officer shall require evidence from the owner or make such investigation as may be necessary to verify that the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog is continuing to be confined in a proper enclosure and that the owner is continuing to comply with all other provisions of this article.
Sec. 14-135. - Compliance not guaranteed by city.
Issuance of a certificate of registration or the renewal of a certificate of registration by the local government does not warrant or guarantee that the requirements specified in this article are maintained by the owner of a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog on a continuous basis following the date of the issuance of the initial certificate of registration or following the date of any annual renewal of such certificate.
Sec. 14-136. - Owner responsibility to notify city.
The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall notify the animal control officer within 24 hours if the dog is on the loose, is unconfined, has attacked a human, has died, or had been sold or donated. If the dog has been sold or donated, the owner shall also provide the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner of the dog. The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall also notify the animal control officer if the owner is moving with the animal from the animal control officer's jurisdiction.
Sec. 14-137. - Time for new residents to register.
The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, who is a new resident of the city and the state, shall register the dog in the manner provided by this article within 30 days after becoming a resident. An owner who is a new resident of the city, but not of the state, shall register the dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog within ten days after becoming a resident of the city.
Sec. 14-138. - Prohibited acts.
modified
(a)
Proper restraint required. It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog to permit the dog to be outside a proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash and is under the physical restraint of a responsible person.
(b)
Warning sign required. It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dangerous dog to fail to post a warning sign on the premises where a dangerous dog is located in accordance with this article.
Sec. 14-139. - Impoundment for violation.
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer, and any person under his employ, to impound the dog if:
(1)
The owner does not secure a certificate of registration in accordance with this article.
(2)
The owner does not secure liability insurance or meet the bond requirement of this article.
(3)
The owner does not keep the dog within a proper enclosure or permits the dog to roam or run free.
Sec. 14-140. - Redemption of impounded dog.
modified
(a)
Compliance required; fees. Any dangerous or potentially dangerous dog impounded under the provisions of this article shall be returned to the owner upon the owner's compliance with the provisions of this article and upon payment of reasonable impoundment cost, as fixed by a schedule approved by the city, as from time to time amended.
(b)
Notice to owner. Notice of impoundment under this section shall be given to the owner, in writing, by certified mail, at his last known address. This notice shall state that if the owner has not complied with the provisions of this article within 20 days from receipt of such notice, the dog shall be destroyed in an expeditiously and humane manner; provided, however, no dog shall have been destroyed under this section unless it has been held for a full 20 days, exclusive of the date of giving notice.
Sec. 14-141. - Liability of owner.
The owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall be solely liable for any injury to or death of a person caused by such dog.
Sec. 14-142. - Liability of city.
Under no circumstances shall the city or any employee or official of the city that enforces or fails to enforce the provisions of this article be held liable for any damages to any person who suffers an injury inflicted by a dog that has been identified as being a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, that the city has failed to identify as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, that has been identified as being a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog but has not been kept or restrained in the manner described in this article, or by a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog whose owner has not maintained insurance coverage or a surety bond as required in section 14-133.
