Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Ordinances generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, City of Milledgeville, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1986, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Exemplifications of municipal minutes and other records, O.C.G.A. § 24-7-21.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the council:
Charter. The term "Charter" shall mean the Charter of the city, as it now exists or as it may be amended in the future.
City. The terms "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Milledgeville, Georgia.
Code. Whenever the term, "Code" or "this Code" is referred to without further qualification, it shall mean the Code of Ordinances, City of Milledgeville, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall be counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
Council. The term "council" shall mean the board of aldermen of the City of Milledgeville, Georgia.
County. The terms "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Baldwin, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision authorizes or requires the head of a department or another officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize his deputized representatives to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation, and the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The letters "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, departments, etc. Whenever a reference is made to officials, officers, employees, boards, commissions, departments, and other agencies by title only, i.e., "clerk and treasurer," "chief of police," etc., it shall be deemed to refer to the officials, officers, employers, boards, commissions, departments and other agencies of the City of Milledgeville, Georgia.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and" and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, joint ventures, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The terms "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to mean the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
(Code 1986, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time under Civil Practice Act, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6; "street" defined, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(63).
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of sections of this Code, printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents and shall not be deemed to be titles of such sections, nor as any part thereof, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any such catchline or any heading or title to any chapter, article or division.
(Code 1986, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code or their application to any persons or circumstances are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code or their application.
(Code 1986, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - History notes.
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
Sec. 1-6. - Editor's notes and references.
The editor's notes, Charter references, cross references and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the city;
(4)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the council to any person;
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(7)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or making assessments therefor;
(9)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for any plat or subdivision;
(10)
Any ordinance annexing property into the city;
(11)
Any ordinance regulating zoning in the city;
(12)
Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as those prescribing speed limits, through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not inconsistent with such Code;
(13)
Any ordinance fixing utility rates and charges;
(14)
Any ordinance establishing or amending a retirement plan for city employees;
(15)
Any ordinance relating to an area planning and development commission or a regional development center;
(16)
Any temporary or special ordinance;
and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1986, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code, or in any ordinance of the city, or in any Code or other provision adopted by reference by the city, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation, concealing of a violation, or the harboring, assisting or protecting of a person charged with or convicted of a violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, plus costs, by sentence of imprisonment not exceeding six months and to work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding 12 months, or any or all such penalties in the discretion of the municipal court judge. Each day during which any such violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Code 1986, § 1-6)
Editor's note— Charter § 36 permits a maximum $1,000.00 fine, plus costs, six months' imprisonment or 12 months' work on the work gang, any one or more. However, the penalty as provided in the above section 1-8 would be applicable to Code violations, unless otherwise stated in other sections of the Code.
Charter reference— Powers of municipal court, § 37.
State Law reference— Confinement of violators of ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-9. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented.
(Code 1986, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-10. - Amendment to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the council to make the additions and amendments a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code, so that a reference to the Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Milledgeville, Georgia is hereby amended to read as follows:…. (Set out new provisions in full)________."
(c)
When the council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the council desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance:
"Section _____. It is the intention of the mayor and aldermen, and it is hereby ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances, City of Milledgeville, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1986, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1986, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-12. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1986, § 1-10)
State Law reference— Operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
