Chapter 46 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Power of city to regulate explosive and inflammable materials, § 7; fire department, § 23; powers and duties of planning commission, § 79.
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; fire districts, § 18-43; civil emergencies, ch. 30; congregating at fire, § 62-3; poles and wires on fire damaged premises, § 90-137.
State Constitution reference— Power of city to provide fire protection services, technical codes, etc., Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
State Law reference— Fire escapes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50 et seq.; forest fires, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-89; transmitting false report of fire, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27; fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. tit. 25; firefighters' pensions, O.C.G.A. § 47-7-1 et seq.; liability of firefighters for emergency activities, O.C.G.A. § 51-1-30.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE

Sec. 46-31. - Adopted.
The latest edition of the Standard/International Fire Prevention Code, including the Appendix, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, is hereby adopted as the official fire prevention code of the city.
(Code 1986, § 8-46; Ord. No. O-02-03, 1-22-2002)
Sec. 46-32. - Definition.
Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the code adopted in this division, it shall be held to mean the City of Milledgeville.
(Code 1986, § 8-47)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 46-33. - Enforcement.
The chief of the fire department shall also be known as the fire official for the enforcement of this division.
(Code 1986, § 8-48)
Sec. 46-34. - Appeals.
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the fire prevention code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the council within 30 days from the date of the decision being appealed.
(Code 1986, § 8-49)
Sec. 46-35. - Transportation routes—Explosives; blasting agents.
The routes for vehicles transporting explosives and blasting agents shall be any state route or alternate route.
(Code 1986, § 8-50)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 86; utilities, ch. 90.
Sec. 46-36. - Same—Hazardous chemicals and other dangerous articles.
The routes for vehicles transporting hazardous chemicals and other dangerous articles shall be any state route or alternate route.
(Code 1986, § 8-51)
Sec. 46-37. - Storage of certain materials.
The limits in which storage of class I liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, the limits in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted and the limits in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited shall be as provided in the zoning ordinance.
(Code 1986, § 8-52)
Sec. 46-38. - Penalties.
(a)
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of any code adopted in this article or who shall fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $1,000.00, or by imprisonment for not less than 30 days nor more than 180 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
The application of the penalty stated in this section shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Code 1986, § 8-31)
Sec. 46-39. - Life safety code.
(a)
The latest edition of the NFPA 101, Code for Safety to Life from Fire in Buildings and Structures, as published by the National Fire Protection Association, as filed in the office of the clerk and treasurer and identified by the signature of the mayor thereon, is hereby adopted as the official life safety code of the city.
(b)
The person in charge of such code shall be the chief of the fire department.
(Code 1986, § 8-32)
Sec. 46-40. - Outside burning.
(a)
In general, except as provided in subsection (b), no person shall kindle [or maintain any kind of fire in a] public or private place outside of any building. Fire started in violation of this section shall be promptly extinguished by the person responsible for same upon notice by the fire chief or his duly designated agent. During the existence of an air pollution alert, as may be declared by the mayor, all exceptions are void and no open fires shall be kindled.
(b)
Exceptions:
(1)
Open burning may be done under written permit as follows:
a.
Types of fires. No person shall kindle or maintain any kind of fire such as bonfires, rubbish, brush, trash, papers, leaves, or garbage without written permit from the Milledgeville Fire Department. The burning of garbage or refuse that smolders or gives off noxious odors is prohibited.
b.
Chief may prohibit. The chief of the fire department or his designee may prohibit any and all fires outdoors when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous. Primary concern will be the protection of property and the health, safety and comfort of persons from the effects of burning.
c.
Open burning of leaves and rubbish. The burning of leaves and rubbish within the city limits is prohibited except as follows:
1.
The open burning of leaves and rubbish shall be permitted daily between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and sundown. Smoke will be extinguished by sundown.
2.
Any such fire shall be constantly attended by a competent person until such fire is extinguished.
d.
Issuing of permits. Issuing of permits shall be done as follows:
1.
Permits will be issued Monday through Saturday between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
2.
Permits will be issued at the Milledgeville Fire Department located at 201 West Thomas Street, or upon the inspection of the burn site by the fire chief or his duly designated agent.
3.
Each permit will be signed by the owner of the property or by the persons responsible for the fires.
e.
Permits and fees:
1.
Each permit will be issued by the fire department. Permits must be issued prior to burning and each permit will be valid for the day the permit is issued.
2.
Any commercial burning will require a permit fee. The fee will be based on $25.00—$100.00 per day depending on the size and location of the burn.
(2)
Open burning may be done without a permit as follows:
a.
Open fires may be set in performance of an official duty of any public officer if the fire is necessary for one or more of the following reasons or purposes:
1.
For the prevention of a fire hazard which cannot be abated by other means;
2.
For the instruction of public firefighters or industrial employees under the supervision of the fire chief; or
3.
For the protection of public health.
b.
Fires may be used for the cooking of food, provided no smoke violation or other nuisance is created.
c.
Salamanders or other devices may be used for heating by construction or other workers, provided no smoke violation or other nuisance is created.
d.
Fires may be set in the course of agricultural operations in growing crops or raising fowl or animals, provided no nuisance is created.
e.
Open fires such as campfires may be set for recreational purposes, provided no smoke violation or nuisance is created.
(3)
Materials, locations, and fire extinguishing equipment:
a.
All fires must be attended, and adequate fire equipment to extinguish the fire shall be available at all times at the site of the fire.
b.
No fire can be permitted to cause smoke, soot, offensive odors, visible emissions, heat, flame, radiation or other conditions to a degree that they become a nuisance.
c.
No charcoal burners shall be kindled or maintained on combustible balconies or within ten feet (3.1m) of combustible patios on ground floors, with the exception of single-family dwellings.
d.
No persons shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained without a permit or other proper authorization. During construction or demolition of buildings or structures no waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or in the immediate vicinity without having obtained a permit or other proper authorization.
e.
Any open fire ignited or permitted to be burned shall be at least 50 feet from any residence on the property where the burning is to be conducted or 100 feet from any other occupied building, at least 50 feet from any public road and minimum of 25 feet from any woodlands, forest or brush.
f.
No person shall deposit hot ashes or cinders, or smoldering coals, or greasy or oily substances liable to spontaneous ignition, into any combustible materials, except in metal or other noncombustible covered receptacles. Such receptacles, unless resting on a noncombustible floor or on the ground outside the buildings, shall be placed on noncombustible stands and in every case shall be kept at least two feet from any combustible wall or partition or exterior window opening.
g.
The moisture content and composition of the material to be burned must be favorable to good burning so that air pollution is minimized. Green or wet material may not be burned.
h.
The burning of the following is expressly prohibited:
1.
Tires and other similar materials.
2.
Bunker C oil.
3.
Asphalt.
4.
Roofing.
5.
Railroad cross ties and other creosoted lumber.
6.
Plastics.
7.
Waste pesticide containers.
8.
Garbage with food materials.
9.
Trash, other than yard trash and paper products.
i.
This section shall control in case of conflict with any other city ordinance.
j.
Any person, firm or corporation in violation of any provision of this section shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than the maximum penalty as provided by the Charter of the City for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. of 12-12-1995)
Secs. 46-41—46-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE DEPARTMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-71 et seq.

Sec. 46-71. - Obstruction, interference with firefighters discharging duty.
It shall be unlawful for any person, while any members of the fire department are engaged in the discharge of their duty or are going to or from any point at which any fire is located, to, in any way, obstruct, interfere with or delay any of such firefighters in the discharge of their duties at such fire or while going to or returning from the place of such fire.
(Code 1986, § 8-16)
State Law reference— Refusal to obey official request at fire or other emergency, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-30.
Sec. 46-72. - Removal, interference with property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in any way to remove or interfere with any article or thing connected with the fire department while the same is being used by any of the firefighters in the discharge of their duty.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, injure or in any way interfere with any reel, hose, bucket, ladder, uniform, rubber coat or any article belonging to or being a part of or used by any member of the fire department.
(Code 1986, § 8-17)
State Law reference— Interference with government property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-24; offenses involving theft, O.C.G.A. § 16-8-1 et seq.
Sec. 46-73. - Obstructing fire plug, fire station.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct in any way any fire plug or fire station in the city.
(Code 1986, § 8-18)
State Law reference— Interference with water supply system, etc., O.C.G.A. § 16-7-22; stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-203.
Sec. 46-74. - Fire protection outside city.
(a)
Fire protection may be provided outside the corporate limits of the city under the conditions provided in this section and pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 25-3-5.
(b)
Any industry, located outside the city limits and within a three-mile radius of a city fire station, may apply for fire protection service under the provisions of this section by completing a "fire protection maintenance contractual agreement" form. Applications from an industry within a four-mile radius may only be approved by special permission of the council.
(c)
"Industry" shall be defined as a business, plant or factory having a structure or structures containing more than 5,000 square feet which are used for its operation.
(d)
Applications shall be submitted to the clerk and treasurer on or before April 1 of each year and shall be accompanied by the appropriate fees.
(e)
The fees charged for providing such fire protection to an industry shall be based on the number of individuals employed in the industry on January 1 of each year of fire protection service calculated on the following schedule:
EXPAND
Number of
Employees Rate per Employee
0—2 $22.63 per employee
3—9 $45.26 plus $11.32 per employee over 2
10—99 $124.50 plus $9.62 per employee over 9
100—499 $980.68 plus $7.92 per employee over 99
500 and over $4,140.76 plus $5.65 per employee over 499
  (f)
The amounts stated in this section for providing fire protection to such industries may be changed by the council as the cost of the service warrants.
(g)
Industries that are temporarily closed may continue to receive contractual fire service protection from the city based on the schedule of fees contained herein by using the number of employees reported for the last year the industry was in operation.
(h)
The fire department shall answer calls only to applicants meeting the requirements stated in this section and having a contract with the city for fire protection.
(Code 1986, § 8-19)
State Law reference— Intergovernmental assistance, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-3; contract with county required for operation in unincorporated area, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-5.
