ARTICLE VI. - TAXATION

Sec. 49. - Taxation.
For the purposes of raising revenues to defray the ordinary, current expenses incident to the proper support and maintenance of the city government, the said mayor and aldermen shall have full power and authority to levy and collect an ad valorem tax upon all property, both real and personal, in the corporate limits of said city, not to exceed one-half of one (1) per centum, but where that amount is deemed insufficient, said mayor and aldermen shall have the authority and power to levy an additional tax in the mode and manner provided by the constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 24)
State Law reference— Municipal taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq.
Sec. 50. - Return of property for tax purposes.
All persons, firms or corporations subject to ad valorem taxes in said city shall between the first day of January and the thirty-first day of March in each year make a return under oath of all property, real or personal, in the corporate limits of said city which they shall have owned as of the first day of such year. The return shall be made in such form as may be prescribed by the governing body of the City of Milledgeville. The returns shall be made to the clerk of said city, who shall be an ex officio tax receiver, or in his absence, to the deputy clerk of said city. It shall be the duty of the board of tax assessors of said city on or before June 30 of each year to notify the clerk of any property which has not been returned for taxes; and the clerk shall notify the person failing to make such return of such failure, and instruct such person that unless a return is made within twenty (20) days, the board of tax assessors shall proceed to make appropriate entry of such property and assess the same; such notice shall be in writing and shall be mailed to the person failing to make such return. During such twenty-day period, the person receiving such notice shall be allowed to show cause, if any, why such property is not subject to taxation. Any person, firm or corporation which shall fail to make a return by the thirty-first day of March in each year, as provided in this section, shall, in addition to such taxes as may be imposed by the City of Milledgeville, pay a penalty of ten (10) per cent of such tax.
Any other provisions of this or any other law to the contrary notwithstanding, any taxpayer paying his taxes for the year 1966 on or before July 31, 1966, shall be allowed and shall receive a five (5) per cent discount on the total amount of such taxes. Taxes for 1966 shall be due and payable on or before December 20, 1966, but beginning with the year 1967 and each year thereafter taxes shall be due and payable as of July 31 of each year in lieu of December 20 of each year. The governing authority of the city is hereby authorized to contract with a person or persons for the receiving or collecting, or both, of city taxes.
(§ 24A, added by 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2552, § 1; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3427, § 1)
State Law reference— Uniform property tax administration and equalization, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-260 et seq.
Secs. 51, 52. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Original §§ 37 and 38 of the Charter, as amended by 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1, relating to selection of tax assessors and appeals from assessments, were repealed by 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3373, § 1. The 1979 law also repealed §§ 11 and 39 of the charter, relating to notice of assessments and evidentiary hearings relative to assessments.
Sec. 53. - Taxes to pay interest on bonds.
Nothing contained in this act shall be construed to prevent the levy and collection of taxes sufficient to pay the interest on bonds already issued or which may hereafter be issued under the act of the General Assembly, approved November 4, 1889, and authorized by a two-thirds vote of the qualified voters of said city, at the election held pursuant to said act on the fourteenth day of March, 1890, and of the levy and collection of one-half of one (1) per cent in addition to that authorized by this act for "ordinary current expenses" authorized by a two-thirds vote of the qualified voters of said city at an election held on the ninth day of December, 1890, under and by virtue of a provision of the general law regulating the levy of taxes by municipal corporations.
Sec. 54. - Appropriations, tax levy for school purposes.
Said mayor and aldermen shall have power and authority to make such annual cost appropriations as they may deem necessary for the support of the "Middle Georgia Military and Agricultural College" and "Eddy School," located in said city, and for the support of such school system as may be established in lieu of said school and college, or in addition thereto. They may appropriate such sums as they may deem proper for the erection or improvement of school buildings in said city and for providing necessary furniture therefor. Whenever it may be necessary to appropriate amounts for the purpose aforesaid greater than the amount on hand or that may accrue, and greater than the ordinary income will furnish, the said mayor and aldermen may order an election to increase the rate of taxation or to issue bonds under the provisions of the constitution and laws of Georgia; provided, that the tax levy for the support of said schools now in force, heretofore authorized by vote of the people of said city, shall not be reduced.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 63; renumb. § 62 by 1901 Ga. Laws, page 549, § 2; renumb. § 61 by 1902 Ga. Laws, page 510, § 1)
State Constitution reference— Local taxation for education, art. VIII, § VI.
State Law reference— Municipal school taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-405.
Sec. 55. - Additional levy authorized for school purposes.
The mayor and aldermen of the City of Milledgeville are hereby empowered to increase the ad valorem taxes levied and collected for school purposes in said city upon all property, both real and personal, two (2) mills in addition to the tax now levied for school purposes.
(1937 Ga. Laws, page 1988, § 1)
Sec. 56. - Collection of debts due city.
[The] mayor and aldermen shall have power and authority to enforce, by execution, the collection of any debt or claim due or to become due to said city, for taxes, license fees, rents, impounding fees, fines and forfeitures; for laying sewers and drains; for cleaning and repairing privies and for abating nuisances; and for any and all levies, assessments, debts or demands due or to become due to said city. Said executions to [shall] be issued by the clerk of said city and bear teste in the name of the mayor, against the property, person, corporation or firm against which or whom any tax has been levied or by [which or] whom any such debt or demand is owing, such execution to be directed to all and singular the marshal and deputy marshal, who are authorized to levy the same upon the property against which it is issued or on the property of the owner against whom such execution shall issue, and the same to be sold as is provided by the Code of Georgia of 1895, sections 732, 733, 734, 735, in case of sales for taxes.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 34)
Editor's note— For current law on executions and judicial sales, see O.C.G.A. § 9-13-1 et seq.
State Law reference— Tax executions, O.C.G.A. § 48-3-1 et seq.; tax sales, O.C.G.A. § 48-4-1 A seq.
Sec. 57. - Sheriff's sale—Procedure.
It shall be the duty of the marshal or deputy marshal to levy all executions in favor of the city, and after advertising for thirty (30) days as sheriffs sales are advertised, shall sell the property levied upon before the courthouse door in Baldwin County, on a regular sheriff's sale day and within the legal hours of sheriff's sale, and shall sell at public outcry to the highest bidder, and execute titles to the purchaser, and shall have the same power to place the purchaser in possession as sheriffs of the state have; provided, however, should any of the property levied upon, as before provided, remain in the hands of the levying officer and is of a perishable nature or liable to deteriorate in value from keeping, or there is expense attending the keeping of the same (the same not being real estate), it may be sold as in such cases provided by sections 5463 and 5464 of the Code of Georgia of 1895 [O.C.G.A. §§ 9-13-163 and 9-13-164], except that the order to sell shall be obtained from the mayor.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 35)
State Law reference— Advertisement of judicial sales, O.C.G.A. § 9-13-140 et seq.
Sec. 58. - Same—Claim of illegality.
When any execution shall be issued and levied as provided in the preceding section, claim of illegality may be interposed under the same rules and regulations as now provided by law for claims and illegalities under tax fi. fas. for state and county tax. Such claim or [of] illegality to [shall] be returned to and heard in Baldwin Superior Court, County Court or the Justice Court of the Three Hundred Twentieth District G. M., according as the jurisdiction thereof may be.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 36)
Editor's note— Justice courts have been replaced by magistrate courts. See O.C.G.A. § 3-10-1 et seq.
Sec. 59. - Resident males liable for street work; commutation tax.
Every male person between the ages of sixteen (16) and fifty (50) years, who has resided in said city thirty (30) days shall be liable and subject to work on the streets of said city not to exceed fifteen (15) days in each year at such time or times, as the mayor and aldermen may require, or to pay a commutation tax in lieu thereof not to exceed three dollars ($3.00), as said mayor and aldermen may determine. Should any person, liable to work the streets of said city under this section fail or refuse to do so or to pay the street tax assessed in lieu of such service, after having received due notice so to do, as said mayor and aldermen may require, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section and, on conviction, in the municipal court, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars ($25.00) or imprisonment in the guard-house, or by labor in the chain-gang of said city, not exceeding thirty (30) days. Said mayor and aldermen may pass such ordinance as they may deem proper for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this section.
(1900 Ga. Laws, page 345, § 27)
State Law reference— Use of leg chains and other restraints, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-58.
