ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Section 401: - Number of Districts.
For the purposes of this ordinance, the City of McRae-Helena is divided into eight (8) zoning districts identified as follows:
EXPAND
R1 Low-Density Residential District (AG) (R-15) (R-40)
R2 Medium-Density Residential District (R2-15)
R3 High-Density Residential District (RM-15)
R4 High-Density Residential District
R5 High-Density Residential-Mobile Home District
C1 General Commercial District (B-1)
O1 Office-Institutional District (B-2)
M1 Industrial District (I)
    The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on the map entitled "Zoning Districts Map of the City of McRae-Helena, Georgia," and certified by the City Clerk. Said map is hereby made a part of this ordinance and shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 402: - District Boundaries on Zoning Map.
Unless otherwise indicated, the district boundary lines are lot lines or the center lines of streets or blocks or such lines extended, the corporate limit line, or a line midway between the main tracks of a railroad.
All territory which may hereafter by annexed to the City of McRae-Helena shall be automatically classified as being within the R-1 District until such classification shall have been changed by an Amendment as provided by law.
Sub-Section 00—Interpretation of District Boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
00.1
Where district boundaries are depicted as approximately following the center lines of streets or highways, center lines of streams or drainage ways, street lines, or highway rights-of-way lines, such center lines, street lines, or highway rights-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
00.2
Where district boundaries are so depicted that they approximately follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
00.3
Where district boundaries are so depicted that they are approximately parallel to the center lines of streets, highways, or railroads, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the Zoning Map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said Zoning Map.
00.4
Where a district boundary line as appearing on the Zoning Map divided a lot in single ownership at the time of enactment of this ordinance, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided that such extension shall not include any part of such a lot more than thirty-five (35) feet beyond the district boundary line.
