Chapter 22 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 22-1. - Discharge of firearms.
No persons shall discharge any firearm within the city. The section does not apply to:
(1)
Persons who are exercising the legal right of self-defense or defense of others.
(2)
Law enforcement officers who are engaged in official duties as such.
(3)
Members of the Armed Forces or National Guard engaged in official duties as such.
Sec. 22-2. - Juvenile curfew.
(a)
Established. It is unlawful for any minor 16 years of age or younger to loiter, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or any place unsupervised by an adult having the lawful authority to be at such places, between the hours of 12:00 midnight on any day and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and provided this section shall not apply in the following instances:
(1)
When a minor is accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(2)
When the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of such minor;
(3)
When the minor is returning directly home from a school activity or entertainment, school-sponsored or school-related sports event, school recreational activity or dance;
(4)
When the minor is returning directly home from lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in the above-referenced places during the prescribed period of time;
(5)
When the minor is attending or traveling directly to or from an activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech, freedom of assembly, or free exercise of religion;
(6)
When the minor is in a motor vehicle with parental consent for normal travel;
(7)
When the minor is on the property of or the sidewalk adjacent to the building in which he resides.
Any acts made unlawful by the provisions of this subsection shall be subject to the juvenile code of the state.
(b)
Responsibility of parents. It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person having custody or control of any child 16 years of age or younger to permit or by insufficient control to allow such child to be in or upon the public streets or any other places listed in subsection (a) of this section within the city between the hours of 12:00 midnight on any day and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, except in circumstances set out in subsections (a)(1) through (7) of this section. Upon conviction of violation of this section for the first time, a person shall be given a warning by the court. Such warning shall be entered on the court record for filing. Upon further convictions, a person shall be subject to such punishment as the municipal court of the city may impose, subject to all limitations contained in the Charter of the city. Each violation by each individual child of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
Reports. The law enforcement agency responsible for enforcement under these provisions shall be required to submit a quarterly report for up to one year after August 10, 2017, to the appropriate committee to monitor the continuing need and effectiveness of this section.
(Ord. No. O-028-17, ยง 1, 8-10-2017)
