Chapter 38 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Courts, ch. 22; traffic and vehicles, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

Sec. 38-1. - Enforcement of chapter provisions.
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced and administered by the code compliance officer in conjunction with and concurrently with any other enforcement agency, officer or department designated in this chapter.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-15)
Sec. 38-2. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful and disorderly conduct for any person to:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby a reasonable person would be placed in fear of safety for life or limb;
(2)
Place the property of another in serious danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Use fighting words directed toward another, who becomes outraged and thus creates a turmoil;
(4)
Violently interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation; or
(5)
Congregate with others to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuse to clear the way when ordered by lawful authority to so do.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-1)
Sec. 38-3. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be on the streets of the city or in any public place in an intoxicated condition.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-2)
Sec. 38-4. - Posting signs on poles without consent.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post or display in or upon any bridge any sign or advertisement, or to post or display upon any telegraph, telephone or electric company's pole, or upon any public property or the private property of any person any bills, signs or advertisements without the consent in writing of the owner thereof.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-4)
Sec. 38-5. - Weapons; discharge in city.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, including pistol, rifle and shotgun, or to shoot an air gun, including BB gun and pellet gun, within the city, except by law enforcement officers in the line of duty, and the military when on drill or parade, or at a funeral in honor of the dead; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for any person to shoot a BB and/or pellet gun upon private property if that person shall have first obtained the express permission of the owner of that property to do so. This exception on private property shall not apply when the BB gun and/or pellet gun is discharged in such a manner that the projectile is intended or in fact does so leave the private property.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-5)
Sec. 38-6. - Loitering in public places.
It shall be unlawful for any persons to loiter upon any premises to which the public has access including, but not limited to, such places as parking lots, when such person does not have a legitimate cause or need to be present thereon. Any person who does not have a legitimate cause or need to be present on such premises and who shall willfully fail to remove himself from such premises after being requested by a police officer or other law enforcement officer shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-7)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 50.
Sec. 38-7. - Behavior endangering life, limb, health, or property.
No person shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any other person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health, or whereby the property of another is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-8)
Sec. 38-8. - Endangering lawful pursuits of another.
No person shall endanger the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry threats or abusive conduct.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-9)
Sec. 38-9. - Causing, provoking or engaging in fights, brawls or riotous conduct.
No person shall cause, provoke, or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-10)
Sec. 38-10. - Assembling for purpose of causing or engaging in fight or brawl.
No person shall assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose of causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-11)
Sec. 38-11. - Jostling, crowding or pushing another person in a public place.
No person shall intentionally jostle, roughly crowd or push any person in any public place.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-12)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 50.
Sec. 38-12. - Language creating a breach of the peace.
No person shall use fighting words or loud or boisterous language directed toward another so as to create a breach of the peace, potentially dangerous to the safety of persons or property.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-13)
