DIVISION 6. - LAKE ALLATOONA PRESERVATION AUTHORITY

Sec. 2-261. - Legislative finding.
It is declared that there exists in the Cherokee County, Cobb County, and Bartow County area a need for an authority to function without profit in preserving Lake Allatoona for the public good in this state.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 1)
Sec. 2-262. - Authority created.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Lake Allatoona Preservation Authority, and which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity.
(b)
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, and operating one or more projects consisting of facilities to be used for the purpose of preserving Lake Allatoona; acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of, or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient, and desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development of such types of undertakings.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 2)
Sec. 2-263. - Membership; organization.
(a)
The authority shall consist of nine members who shall serve as members of Post 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9, respectively. The governing authority of Cherokee County shall appoint persons for Posts 1, 2, and 3; the governing authority of Cobb County shall appoint persons for Posts 4, 5, and 6; and the governing authority of Bartow County shall appoint persons for Posts 7, 8, and 9. Each governing authority shall initially appoint two members for terms of two years and one member for a term of four years.
(b)
Except for the initial members of the authority, all subsequent members of the authority shall serve for a term of four years or until their successors are selected and qualified.
(c)
Vacancies on the authority shall be filled in the same manner described in subsection (a) of this section. The appointment of any person to fill an expired term shall be only for the remainder of such term and until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(d)
The governing authorities of Cherokee, Cobb, and Bartow counties shall proceed to select the members of the authority immediately after the effective date of this Act.
(e)
The members shall organize and enter upon the performance of their duties.
(f)
The authority shall elect one of its members as chair and another as vice chair and shall elect a secretary-treasurer, who may, but need not necessarily, be a member of the authority.
(g)
Five members of the authority shall constitute a quorum, and no vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority at every meeting, and in every instance a majority vote shall authorize any legal act of the authority, including all things necessary to authorize and issue revenue bonds.
(h)
The members of the authority shall not be entitled to compensation for their services but shall be entitled to and shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses properly incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government and may retain, employ, and engage professional and technical supervisors, assistants, experts, other agents, and employees, temporary or permanent, as it may require. The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees, and the authority shall keep suitable books and records of all its obligations, contracts, transactions, and undertakings, and of all income and receipts of every nature and all expenditures of every kind. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 3)
Sec. 2-264. - Public purposes and property.
It is found, determined, and declared that the creation of the authority and the carrying out of its corporate purposes is in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state, and that the authority is an institution of purely public charity, and that all property of said authority is declared and shall in all respects be considered to be public property and title to such property shall be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public, and the use of such property pursuant to the terms of this Act shall be and is declared to be for public and governmental purposes, that is, for the preservation of Lake Allatoona, and all the property, income, obligations, and interest on the obligations of the authority and the transfer thereof shall be and are declared to be nontaxable for any and all purposes.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 4)
Sec. 2-265. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the Lake Allatoona Preservation Authority created by this Act.
(2)
"Cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this Act, or the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(3)
"Project" means and includes the acquisition, construction, equipment, maintenance, and operation of facilities to be used for preservation of Lake Allatoona, including, without limitation, septic systems, sewer systems, and sediment ponds, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and the extension and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, acquiring the necessary real property development rights, and the lease, sale, and licensing of any part or all of such facilities, including real and personal property, to any persons, firms, or corporations whether public or private so as to assure the efficient and proper preservation, maintenance, and operation of such facilities and areas, deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient, or desirable. The authority shall have the right to acquire and construct more than one project and any combination of facilities may be constructed as a separate project.
(4)
"Revenue bonds," "bonds," and "obligations" means revenue bonds as defined and provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law," as amended, and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said "Revenue Bond Law" and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are specifically provided for in this Act.
(5)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 5)
Sec. 2-266. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(1)
To adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(2)
To acquire by gift or by purchase on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper or by exercise of the right of eminent domain in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, lands, easements, or rights in lands, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes and to use, rent, or lease the same or make contracts with respect to the use thereof, or to dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority and the purposes thereof. Title to such property, however, shall be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public;
(3)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, loans, appropriations, and donations of money or materials or property of any kind, including loans and grants from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality thereof shall impose, and to administer trusts, and to sell, lease, transfer, convey, appropriate, pledge, mortgage, or encumber all of its property and assets;
(4)
To borrow money and issue notes or revenue bonds payable from the earnings of the projects of the authority, execute trust agreements or indentures, and sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, encumber, and assign any and all of its funds, assets, property, and income as security for such notes or revenue bonds, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof, and provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default either in payment of principal of or interest on such obligations or under any term of or condition pursuant to which such obligations were issued;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, with any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any city, town, municipality, consolidated government, county, or other political subdivision, or departments, institutions, or agencies of this state, including contracts for construction of any project and leasing of any project and contracts with respect to the use and management of any project, and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any city, town, municipality, consolidated government, county, or other political subdivision, department, institution, or agency of this state is authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable;
(6)
To construct, reconstruct, acquire, own, alter, repair, maintain, add to, extend, improve, operate, and manage projects, which shall be and are declared to be public buildings to be used for lake preservation purposes, and the purchase of lands, easements, rights in lands, and franchises for the construction of such facility or facilities and for use in connection therewith; the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of the sale of revenue bonds of the authority, and the title to such property to be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public;
(7)
To issue revenue bonds in such amounts and denominations during the life of the authority so as to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, addition to, or extension of such project as the authority in its judgment may deem just, proper, and necessary. All revenue bonds issued pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall be fully negotiable instruments and shall have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of Georgia;
(8)
To issue revenue bonds to call, refund, or refinance, in whole or in part, all outstanding revenue bonds secured by the anticipated revenue of such project and to include in the cost of the issuance of such bonds any call premium that may be required for the redemption and refunding of such outstanding bonds;
(9)
To do any and all things necessary or proper for the accomplishment of the objectives of this Act and any amendments hereof and to exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state; and
(10)
To invest any accumulation of its funds and any sinking funds or reserves in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested and to purchase its own bonds at a price of not more than the principal thereof and accrued interest. All bonds so purchased shall be canceled.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 6)
Sec. 2-267. - Revenue bonds.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created in this Act, shall have the power and is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the authority, for the purpose of paying all or part of the cost as defined in this Act of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided in this Act for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest from date at such rate or rates per annum payable at such time or times as shall be determined by the authority, principal shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of bonds.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 7)
Sec. 2-268. - Same—Form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds, and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine. Provisions may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 8)
Sec. 2-269. - Same—Signatures; seal.
The bonds shall be signed by the chair of the authority manually or by use of the facsimile signature of the chair and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary-treasurer of the authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chair and secretary-treasurer of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds, or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon, shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if such officer had remained in office until such delivery.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 9)
Sec. 2-270. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of this state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and such bonds and the interest thereon shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 10)
Sec. 2-271. - Same—Sale; proceeds.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interests of the authority and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 11)
Sec. 2-272. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, which interim receipts, certificates, or temporary bonds shall be exchanged, redeemed, paid or otherwise discharged upon the issuance of the definitive bonds.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 12)
Sec. 2-273. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 13)
Sec. 2-274. - Same—Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings, or the happening of any conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 14)
Sec. 2-275. - Same—Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia, Cherokee County, Cobb County, or Bartow County nor a pledge of the faith and credit of said state or counties, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the funds provided for in this Act, and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate said state or counties to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor, or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall continue recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 15)
Sec. 2-276. - Same—Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, and the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued pari passu with the revenue bonds initially issued pursuant to such resolution or trust indenture. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing provisions of this section, such trust indenture or resolution may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture or resolution may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 16)
Sec. 2-277. - Same—To whom proceeds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes of this Act, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 17)
Sec. 2-278. - Same—Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture may provide, and such funds so pledged, from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest;
(4)
Any premium upon bonds acquired by redemption, payment, or otherwise; and
(5)
Any investment fees or charges. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not be reissued, printed, and delivered.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 18)
Sec. 2-279. - Same—Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights given in this Act may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia, or granted under this Act, or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 19)
Sec. 2-280. - Same—Refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 20)
Sec. 2-281. - Same—Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against the authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Cherokee County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 21)
Sec. 2-282. - Same—Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the "Revenue Bond Law," as now or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality contracting with the authority.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 22)
Sec. 2-283. - Same—Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the rights and interests of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 23)
Sec. 2-284. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act and in accordance with the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 24)
Sec. 2-285. - Moneys received; exemption from taxation; covenant of state.
It is found, determined, and declared that the creation of the authority and the carrying out of its corporate purpose is in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state and that the authority is an institution of purely public charity and will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the power conferred upon it by this Act, and this state covenants with the holders of the bonds issued by the authority that the authority shall not be required to pay any taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired or leased by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of the projects erected by it or any fees, tolls, or other charges for the use of such projects or other income received by the authority, and that the bonds of the authority, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within the state. The exemption from taxation provided in this section shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the authority and shall not include exemptions from sales and use taxes on property purchased by the authority or for use by the authority.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 25)
Sec. 2-286. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The authority is authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls, and charges and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls, and charges for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions, or subleases of its land or facilities, or contracts for the use of its land and facilities, and to determine the price and terms at and under which its lands or facilities may be sold, and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, is authorized to issue revenue bonds as provided in this Act to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipment, betterment, or extension of its lands and facilities and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon all or any part of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto, thereafter made or the sale of any of its land and facilities.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 26)
Sec. 2-287. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 27)
Sec. 2-288. - Tort immunity.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as any county of this state; and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of any county of this state when in the performance of their public duties or work.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 28)
Sec. 2-289. - Statutory construction.
This Act, being for the welfare of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes of this Act.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 29)
Sec. 2-290. - Supplemental powers.
The provisions of this Act shall be regarded as supplementary and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as being in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 283, page 4815, § 30)
