ARTICLE IV. - EXCISE TAX
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 3-213—3-232. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MALT BEVERAGES

Sec. 3-233. - Levied on wholesale dealers, breweries, brewpubs, and microbreweries.
modified
(a)
Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, there is hereby levied and imposed upon all wholesale dealers, which shall include breweries, brewpubs, and microbreweries for purposes of this article IV, division 2, selling malt beverages within the city a specific excise tax per 12 ounces and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 12 ounces sold by each wholesale dealer within the corporate limits of the city, as set by the city council and kept on file and maintained in the office of the city clerk of the city.
(b)
All malt beverages sold in or from a barrel or bulk container and being commonly known as tap or draft beer shall not be subject to the excise tax provided for in subsection (a), but in lieu thereof there is hereby levied and imposed upon each wholesale dealer selling such malt beverages within the corporate limits of the city an excise tax as set by the city council and kept on file and maintained in the office of the clerk of the city for each barrel or bulk container having a capacity of 15½ gallons or metric equivalent sold by such wholesale dealer within the city, and at a like rate for fractional parts thereof.
(Code 1991, § 3-156; Ord. of 09-26-2022(1) , § XI)
State Law reference— Required tax, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80.
Sec. 3-234. - Monthly reports; payments.
Each wholesale dealer selling malt beverages within the city shall file a report with the city clerk by the tenth day of each month showing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of malt beverages, by size and type of container, sold by the wholesale dealer's within the city. Each such wholesale dealer shall remit to the city, not later than the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which such sales were made, the amount of excise tax due in accordance with section 3-233.
(Code 1991, § 3-157)
State Law reference— Reports and payments, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-81.
Sec. 3-235. - Additional to other taxes or license fees.
The excise tax provided for in this division shall be in addition to any license fee, tax or charge which may now or in the future be imposed upon the business of selling malt beverages at wholesale within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1991, § 3-158)
Sec. 3-236. - Penalty and accrued interest on late reports and delinquent payments; city clerk to issue execution.
The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due, plus interest accrued at the rate of 12 percent per annum. The clerk of the city shall issue an execution against such wholesale dealer, firm, or corporation so delinquent on the wholesale dealer, firm, or corporation's property for the amount of the excise tax due and delinquent, plus penalty and interest accrued, and shall proceed to collect such amount in the same manner as is done in the case of executions issued for collection of city ad valorem property taxes.
(Code 1991, § 3-159)
Sec. 3-237. - False reports or nonpayment declared grounds for revocation of licenses of wholesale dealers of malt beverages.
At any time it is found that false and fraudulent reports have been made by the wholesale dealer, the wholesale dealer's agents, officers, or employees, and upon which payment of malt beverages excise tax was reported or paid to the city, and at any time the monthly report and payment called for in section 3-234 is past due over 30 days, the wholesale licensee shall be given not less than three days' nor more than ten days' notice of a hearing before the city council to show cause why the wholesale dealer's license to sell malt beverages in the city should not be suspended or revoked because of such false and fraudulent reports or nonpayment of taxes past due more than 30 days.
(Code 1991, § 3-160)
Sec. 3-238. - Sale of malt beverages upon which tax was not paid prohibited; penalties.
It shall be a violation of this Code for any person to sell at retail or otherwise within the city any malt beverage on which the tax as above set out has not been paid to the wholesaler for the city as above provided. In addition to the penalties provided for in section 1-7, the violation of this division shall be deemed sufficient grounds for the revocation of the license of any retail or wholesale dealer holding a license or permit to sell malt beverages within the city.
(Code 1958, § 5-66; Code 1991, § 3-161)
Secs. 3-239—3-269. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - WINE AND SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS

Sec. 3-270. - Levied on retail dealers and distillers.
There is hereby levied and imposed upon all retail dealers selling wine or spirituous liquors and licensed distillers within the city a specific excise tax computed on the basis of $0.22 per liter of wine or spirituous liquors sold by each retail dealer or distiller within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1991, § 3-181; Ord. No. 7132020-2 , § VI(3-181), 7-13-2020)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-6-60, 3-4-80.
Sec. 3-271. - Collection, custody of taxes.
At any time of delivery of wine or spirituous liquors to any retail dealer, the wholesaler shall collect from the retail dealer the excise taxes imposed in section 3-270 and hold such taxes in trust for the city until said tax is remitted to the city as provided in this division.
(Code 1991, § 3-182; Ord. No. 7132020-2 , § VI(3-182), 7-13-2020)
Sec. 3-272. - Additional to other taxes or license fees.
The excise tax provided for in this division shall be in addition to any license fee, tax or charge which may now or in the future be imposed upon the business of selling at retail wine or spirituous liquors.
(Code 1991, § 3-183; Ord. No. 7132020-2 , § VI(3-183), 7-13-2020)
Sec. 3-273. - Invoices required to be kept as records by wholesaler and retailer.
Upon each and every delivery by a licensed wholesaler to a licensed retailer, an invoice in duplicate shall be prepared showing the number and size of each container of wine and spirituous liquors delivered, together with the price therefor and the excise taxes due and collected thereon. The original of such invoice shall be delivered by the wholesaler to the retailer simultaneously with such delivery, and the second copy of such invoice shall be retained by the wholesaler. Each retailer or wholesaler shall keep such invoices or copies for a period of 12 months after the date of delivery and, during such 12-month period, such invoices shall be made available for inspection by a representative of the city.
(Code 1991, § 3-184; Ord. No. 7132020-2 , § VI(3-184), 7-13-2020)
Sec. 3-274. - Monthly reports; payments.
(a)
Each wholesale dealer selling wines or spirituous liquors within the city shall file a report with the city clerk by the 15th day of each month which shall correctly show the name of each retail dealer to whom a delivery was made during the preceding calendar month, the quantities of wine and spirituous liquors delivered to each dealer, the amount of excise tax collected under the terms of section 3-271, and such other reasonable information as may be required by the city. The report shall be accompanied by remittance made payable to the city for all taxes collected or due, as shown on such report.
(b)
Each distiller within the city shall report and remit the local excise tax above levied on sales of the spiritous liquors in unbroken packages for consumption off the premises produced by such distiller to the city by the tenth day of the month following the calendar month in which the distilled spirits are sold.
(Code 1991, § 3-185; Ord. No. 7132020-2 , § VI(3-185), 7-13-2020)
Sec. 3-275. - Penalty and accrued interest on late reports and delinquent payments; city clerk to issue execution.
The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale dealer or distiller liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due, plus interest accrued at the rate of 12 percent per annum. The clerk of the city shall issue an execution against such wholesale dealer, firm, or corporation so delinquent on the wholesale dealer, firm, or corporation's property for the amount of the excise tax due and delinquent, plus penalty and interest accrued, and shall proceed to collect such amount in the same manner as is done in the case of executions issued for collection of city ad valorem property taxes.
(Code 1991, § 3-186; Ord. No. 7132020-2 , § VI(3-186), 7-13-2020)
Sec. 3-276. - Noncompliance, false reports, or nonpayment declared grounds for revocation of licenses of wholesale dealers.
At any time it is found that a wholesale dealer or distiller has not complied with the terms imposed in this article, or that a wholesale dealer or distiller has made a false and fraudulent report to the city upon which excise taxes were reported or paid to the city, or at any time the monthly report and payment called for in section 3-274 is past due over 30 days, the wholesale licensee or distiller shall be given not less than three days' nor more than ten days' notice of a hearing before the city council to show cause why the license of the wholesale dealer or distiller to sell wine or spirituous liquors in the city should not be suspended or revoked because of such noncompliance, or false and fraudulent reports, or nonpayment of taxes past due more than 30 days.
(Code 1991, § 3-187; Ord. No. 7132020-2 , § VI(3-187), 7-13-2020)
Sec. 3-277. - Sale of wine or spirituous liquors upon which tax was not paid prohibited; penalties.
It shall be a violation of this Code for any person, other than a distiller, to sell at retail or otherwise within the city any wine or spirituous liquors on which the tax as above set out has not been paid to the wholesaler for the city as above provided. In addition to the penalties provided for in section 1-7, the violation of this article shall be deemed sufficient grounds for the revocation of the license of any retail, wholesale dealer, or distiller holding a license or permit to sell wine or spirituous liquors within the city.
(Code 1958, § 5-74; Code 1991, § 3-188; Ord. No. 7132020-2 , § VI(3-188), 7-13-2020)
Secs. 3-278—3-302. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - MIXED DRINKS

Sec. 3-303. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Licensee means a person who holds a liquor pouring license from the city to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink and also means and includes a person licensed as a distiller.
Mixed drinks means alcoholic beverages served for consumption on the premises which may or may not be diluted by any other liquid.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, the state, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax herein provided for consumption on the premises.
Purchaser means any person who orders and gives present or future consideration for any alcoholic beverage by the drink.
(Code 1991, § 3-206; Ord. No. 7132020-2 , § VII, 7-13-2020)
Sec. 3-304. - Imposition, rate, remittance of tax.
There is hereby levied and imposed, in addition to all other excise taxes now imposed by law, a tax on the retail purchase of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages for beverage purpose by the drink, including fortified wine, excluding the sales of fermented beverages made whole or in part from malt, or any similar fermented beverage, to be collected at the rate and in the manner set forth in this division.
(1)
Every purchaser of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages for beverage purposes by the drink at retail in the city shall be liable for a tax thereon at the rate of three percent of the sale price or charge for such beverages. Such tax shall be paid by the purchaser to the licensee, as defined in this division, making such sales, as hereafter provided, and such licensee shall remit such tax to the city clerk on or before the 20th day of the succeeding month, to be delinquent if remitted thereafter, with a summary of the licensee's gross sales derived from the sale of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages for beverage purposes by the drink and the amount of taxes collected by the licensee from the licensee's purchasers, on such form as may be required by the city clerk. When received by the city clerk it shall be a credit against the tax imposed hereunder on such licensee. Every licensee, as defined in this division, making a sale of such beverages shall be liable for a tax thereon at the rate of three percent of such gross sales or gross sales derived from the sale of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages for beverage purposes by the drink or the amount of taxes collected by the licensee from the licensee's purchasers, as provided in this division, whichever is greater.
(2)
Gross sales shall include all credit sales to the extent permitted by the laws of the state and shall be reported and the taxes collected thereon remitted to the city clerk to the same extent as required of cash sales. The fact that the licensee may receive payment from such credit sale or sales in a later reporting period shall not relieve or excuse the licensee's responsibility for collecting and remitting the taxes as provided in this division.
(3)
The tax so levied is and shall be in addition to all other taxes, whether levied in the form of excise, license or privilege taxes, and shall be in addition to all other fees and taxes levied.
(Code 1991, § 3-207)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-130.
Sec. 3-305. - Persons liable for tax.
(a)
The taxes imposed by this division are upon the purchaser and shall be collected by the licensee from the purchaser. Therefore, the licensee shall collect the tax imposed by this division from the purchaser and shall pay such taxes over to the city as provided in this division.
(b)
The licensee shall, as far as practicable, add the amount of the tax imposed to the sales price or charge, which shall be a debt from the purchaser to the licensee, until paid, and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other debts. Any licensee who shall neglect, fail, or refuse to collect the tax upon any, every and all retail sales made by the licensee, or the licensee's agents, or employees, of alcoholic beverages, as defined in this division, which are subject to the tax imposed by this division, shall be liable for and pay the tax.
(c)
A licensee shall not advertise or hold out to the public, in any manner, directly or indirectly, that the licensee will absorb all or any part of the tax, or that the licensee will relieve the purchaser of the payment of all or any of the tax.
(d)
If any licensee liable for any tax levied shall sell out the licensee's business or stock of goods, or shall quit the business, the licensee shall make a final return and payment within 15 days after the date of selling or quitting the business.
(Code 1991, § 3-208)
Sec. 3-306. - Deduction from payment of tax due.
In reporting and paying the amount of tax due under this division, each licensee shall be allowed a deduction equal to that rate authorized for deductions from state tax under O.C.G.A., title 48, chapter 8 (O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.); provided that the tax due is not delinquent at time of payment.
(Code 1991, § 3-209)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-133.
Sec. 3-307. - Failure to pay tax.
(a)
The tax imposed by this division shall for each month become delinquent on the 21st day of each succeeding month. The city clerk is empowered, and it shall be the city clerk's duty when any tax becomes delinquent under this division to pursue any remedy or right allowed by law for the enforcement of the collection and payment of taxes lawfully levied by the city as may be allowed under the laws of the state and this Code.
(b)
Any default or delinquency of the tax levied by this division shall constitute cause for suspension or revocation of alcoholic beverage licenses.
(c)
No license shall be issued by the governing authority to any applicant who at the time of application is in default or is delinquent in any amount as to any tax imposed by this division.
(d)
When the governing authority determines that a licensee has been chronically delinquent or chronically in default under this division, the governing authority when acting upon the application of such licensee for renewal of the licensee's license, may in the exercise of its discretion deny such application upon the grounds of such chronic delinquency.
(e)
Any licensee who fails to pay the tax imposed by this division to the city, or fails to pay any amount of such tax required to be collected and paid to the city, within the time required, shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the tax or amount of the tax, in addition to the tax or amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax or any portion thereof at a rate of one percent per month from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period, for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until date of payment.
(Code 1991, § 3-210)
Sec. 3-308. - Retention of records.
It shall be the duty of every licensee required to make a report and pay any tax levied by this division to keep and preserve suitable records of the sales taxable by this division, such other books of account as may be necessary to determine the amount of tax due, and any other information as may be required by the city clerk; and it shall be the duty of every such licensee, moreover, to keep and preserve, for a period of three years, all invoices and other records of such alcoholic beverages which are taxable by this division, and the sales of such alcoholic beverages. All such books, invoices, and other records shall be open to examination by the city clerk or the city clerk's duly authorized agents at all reasonable hours.
(Code 1991, § 3-211)
Secs. 3-309—3-334. - Reserved.
