Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Thomasville, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Thomasville Code."
(Code 1958, § 1-1; Code 1991, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Ordinance codification, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
modified
The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to this Code and to all ordinances and resolutions unless the context requires otherwise:
Generally. When provisions conflict, the specific shall prevail over the general. All provisions shall be liberally construed so that the intent of the city council may be effectuated. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words, technical phrases and words and phrases that have acquired peculiar and appropriate meanings in law shall be construed according to such meanings. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter of the City of Thomasville, Georgia.
City. The term "city" means the City of Thomasville, Georgia.
City council, council. The term "city council" or "council" means the city council of the City of Thomasville, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Thomasville, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, except that when appropriate from the context, the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
"And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2)
"Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
"Either … or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
Corporate limits. The term "corporate limits" means the legal boundaries of the city.
County. The term "county" means Thomas County, Georgia.
Days. The word "days" means calendar days unless otherwise provided and "days" shall mean from 12:00 midnight until the following 12:00 midnight.
Delegation of authority. A provision that authorizes or requires a city officer or city employee to perform an act or make a decision authorizes such officer or employee to act or make a decision through subordinates.
Gender. Words of gender include all genders.
Governor. The term "governor" means the governor of the state.
Includes. The term "includes" does not limit a term to a specified example.
Joint authority. Words giving a joint authority to three or more persons give such authority to a majority of such persons.
Keeper orproprietor. The term "keeper" or "proprietor" means persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive and not mandatory.
May not. The term "may not" states a prohibition.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the city.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" shall be construed as being mandatory.
Number. Words in the singular include the plural. Words in the plural include the singular.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A., state acts. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended. All references to state acts are to such acts, as amended.
Officers, departments, etc. References to officers, departments, boards, commissions or employees are to city officers, city departments, city boards, city commissions and city employees.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or part of such property, and vendees under a contract for deed.
Person. The term "person" means any human being, any governmental or political subdivision or public agency, any public or private corporation, any partnership, any firm, association or other organization, any receiver, trustee, assignee, agent, or other legal representative of any of the foregoing or any other legal entity.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means any property other than real property.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. The term "premises," as applied to real property, includes land and structures.
Property. The term "property" includes real property, personal property and mixed property.
Real property, real estate, land. The terms "real property," "real estate," and "land" include lands, buildings, tenements and hereditaments and all rights and interests therein except chattel interests.
References to public officers or public employees. Reference to a public office or public officer apply to any office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
Residence. The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as such person's place of habitation and to which, whenever such person is absent, such person has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed such person's residence.
Right-of-way. The term "right-of-way" means land that is dedicated or otherwise legally established for public use.
Roadway. The term "roadway" means that portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
Signature or subscription by mark. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the signer or subscriber cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto.
Tennant oroccupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," as applied to a building or land, includes any person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Tenses. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and the present.
Writing. The term "writing" includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by ordinary visual means.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1958, § 1-2; Code 1991, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes; references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and are not titles of such sections, or of any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any such section, including the catchline, is amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code have no legal effect and only indicate legislative history. Editor's notes and state law references that appear in this Code after sections or subsections or that otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
Unless specified otherwise, all references to chapters, articles, divisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions or sections of this Code.
(Code 1958, § 1-3; Code 1991, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinances.
(a)
Unless specifically provided otherwise, the repeal of an ordinance does not revive any repealed ordinance.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred on any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(Code 1991, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein.
(b)
Amendments to provisions of this Code may be made with the following language: "Section (chapter, article, division or subdivision, as appropriate) ___ of The Code of Thomasville, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …."
(c)
If a new section, subdivision, division, article or chapter is to be added to the Code, the following language may be used: "Section (chapter, article, division or subdivision, as appropriate) ___ of The Code of Thomasville, Georgia, is hereby created to read as follows: …."
(d)
All provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be repealed specifically by section, subdivision, division, article or chapter number, as appropriate, or by setting out the repealed provisions in full in the repealing ordinance.
(Code 1958, § 1-4; Code 1991, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of the supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of this Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as necessary to do so in order to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Arrange the material into appropriate organizational units.
(2)
Supply appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections to be included in the Code and make changes in any such catchlines, headings and titles or in any such catchlines, headings and titles already in the Code.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections to be added to the Code.
(4)
Where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing numbers assigned to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections.
(5)
Change the words "this ordinance" or similar words to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," "this subdivision," "this section" or insert section numbers to indicate the sections of this Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code.
(6)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinances inserted in the Code.
(Code 1991, § 1-10; Ord. No. 03262001-1 , § I, 3-26-2001)
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, a violation of this Code shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months (only 30 days of which may be served in confinement). A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall pay the costs of prosecution.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance:
(1)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
(2)
With respect to violations that are not continuous with respect to time, each act is a separate offense.
(e)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(f)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
(Code 1958, § 1-6; Code 1991, § 1-6; Ord. No. 12102007-1 , § I, 12-10-2007)
Sec. 1-8. - Severability.
The sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code and all provisions adopted by reference in this Code are severable so that if any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause and phrase of this Code or of any provision adopted by reference in this Code is declared unconstitutional or invalid by a valid judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect the validity of any other section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause and phrase of this Code or of any provision adopted by reference in this Code, for the council declares that it is its intent that it would have enacted this Code and all provisions adopted by reference in this Code without such invalid or unconstitutional provisions. If any provision of this Code is declared to be inapplicable to specific property by a valid judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not restrict the applicability of such provision to other property.
(Code 1991, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-9. - Provisions deemed continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as legislation previously adopted by the city relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as restatement and continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1991, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-10. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city;
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance rezoning property;
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city;
(16)
Any personnel ordinance;
nor shall such ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
(Code 1991, § 1-9)
