ARTICLE XI. - TEMPORARY VENDING[10]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 10-10-2022(1) , § III, adopted Oct. 10, 2022, repealed the former art. XI., §§ 18-394—18-396, and enacted a new art. XI as set out herein. The former art. XI pertained to temporary vending at special events and derived from the Code of 1991, §§ 18-255-18-257; Ord. of 3-9-1998(1), § I; and Ord. No. 05282001-2 , § I, adopted May 28, 2001.

Sec. 18-394. - Display of merchandise on streets or sidewalks prohibited; exceptions.
modified
No person shall be allowed to use any part of the streets or sidewalks of the city for the display or sale of merchandise, except as permitted in conjunction with a special event sanctioned by the city. Violations shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 1-7; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to, and there shall be allowed casual and isolated sales by authentic, bona fide charitable organization recognized as tax exempt under section 501(C)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or contributions to which are deductible under section 170 of the Internal Revenue Code, so long as their vending activities are limited to prepackaged food items or nonedible merchandise, and their vending activities are conducted not more than twice per calendar year and for a period not exceeding a cumulative total of 20 days.
(Ord. of 10-10-2022(1) , § III)
Sec. 18-395 - Temporary vending provisions for licensed businesses.
modified
Parking lots or vacant areas located on a licensed business ' property shall be deemed public areas and may be utilized as temporary, limited or seasonal promotional space for that licensed business' use only. Temporary, separate, or other businesses located upon the operational premises of a licensed business, including parking areas, loading & unloading zones, buffer, landscaped, or green space areas, shall be deemed in violation of the zoning code sections 22-10, 22-12, and 22-18. This prohibition shall not apply to casual and isolated sales or requests for contributions by authentic, bona fide charitable organization recognized as tax exempt under section 501(C)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or contributions to which are deductible under Section 170 of the Internal Revenue Code, so long as same shall comply with the regulations contained in article VI-A of this Code.
(Ord. of 10-10-2022(1) , § III)
Sec. 18-396 - Temporary vending at special events.
modified
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business license means an occupational tax poster issued by the city according to the provisions set forth in article III of this chapter.
Special event means a festival, parade or program of entertainment which is sponsored, sanctioned, or endorsed by the city and to which the entire community, both local and extended, is invited or included. "Special events" sanctioned by the city include, but are not limited to, Rose Show, Victorian Christmas, Fly-In Frolic, Christmas parade or their successor programs.
Structures means mobile homes, trailers, tents, carts, vehicles, or stands, constructed or assembled with the intention of displaying, storing, or protecting goods or merchandise for sale.
Temporary means lasting for a limited time only, mobile, impermanent, or portable (whether on wheels or with wheels removed), meant to be discarded, disassembled, moved, relocated, driven or transported from one location to another following a specified period of time or specific event.
Temporary business means to sell or offer for sale, to hawk or to peddle any goods, merchandise, agricultural product, or service on the premises not owned, leased or rented by the intended temporary business proprietor and which is intended to last for a limited time only, and specifically those which are intended to be mobile, impermanent, portable or meant to be discarded, disassembled, moved, relocated, driven (whether on or with wheels removed) or transported from one location to another.
Vending means to sell or offer for sale, to hawk or to peddle any goods, merchandise, or services.
(b)
Exemption from zoning regulation. Any temporary vending structure which is issued a permit in conjunction with a special event sanctioned by the city will not be considered in violation of section 22-18 (portable structures) of this Code.
(c)
Application forms for temporary vending permit at special event sanctioned by the city.
(1)
Any application for a temporary vending permit during a special event sanctioned by the city shall be made on a form(s) furnished the applicant by the city, along with all reasonable information necessary to complete the form.
(2)
Upon filing an original application or reapplication, the applicant shall then deposit with the city clerk or his designee, in cash or by check the registration fee which shall be reasonable as related to processing the application and permit, and shall not be refundable, the exact amount of such fee shall be as established by the city council and kept on file at the office of the clerk of the city.
(3)
The city manager or the city manager's designee, in its sole discretion, has the right to limit the number of vendors of same or similar goods, merchandise, or services per event, with the permits being issued on a first-come, first-served basis.
(4)
In the event of wide-area encompassing functions (e.g., Rose Show), where specific vending locations are not designated by the city manager or the city manager's designee, the specific location of the vendor/vending activity must be provided on the application form. In addition, for vending on private property, written permission for vending on the premises signed by the property owner shall be presented at the time of application and maintained by the licensing committee as a permanent part of the application.
(5)
Upon approval of the application and payment of the required registration fee, the applicant shall be entitled to the issuance of an event permit; provided, however, the event committee or committee chair reserves the right to approve such issuance of the permit conditioned upon full and final compliance by the applicant with all applicable city ordinances. Reapplication and permits for subsequent event(s) or year(s) are subject to compliance with the above.
(6)
Upon issuance of the event permit, the permit must be continuously and conspicuously posted, displayed, and affixed to the temporary vending structure during the operating hours of that vendor for each event, day or hour thereof.
(7)
All vendors of any type of merchandise, goods or services, whether for-profit or a bona fide charitable organization recognized as tax exempt under section 501(C)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code or contributions to which are deductible under section 170 of the Internal Revenue Code shall be bound by the provisions of this article, without exception.
(Ord. of 10-10-2022(1) , § III)
Secs. 18-397-18-420. - Reserved.
modified
