ARTICLE XI. - TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Each use permitted by these regulations shall meet the following requirements:

Section A. - Street Access:
Except as otherwise permitted in these regulations, each building shall be located on a lot or parcel which abuts a public street or has access to a public street by means of a recorded access easement.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section B. - Street Right-of-Way:
Future street right-of-ways in any land development may be required in concert with the approval of plats submitted for approval under the terms of the Chatsworth Subdivision Regulations.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section C. - Street Improvements:
Street improvements required to accommodate traffic generated by a use and improvement of new street right-of-ways as established by the Chatsworth Subdivision Regulations shall be made in accordance with City policy.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section D. - Extension of Existing Streets:
Existing streets shall be connected and extended appropriately within the limits of a development. However, streets or portions of streets adjacent to a proposed nonresidential use, which are developed and are being used exclusively for residential access shall not be connected, extended, or in any way provide access to a nonresidential use. In addition, private drives which provide access to a nonresidential use shall not be permitted in any residential district.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section E. - Street Access Curb Cuts in Nonresidential Districts:
Curb cuts for service drives, entrances, exits, and other similar facilities on public streets in nonresidential districts shall not be located within 20 feet of any intersection or within 40 feet of another curb cut. A curb cut shall be no greater than 40 feet in width and no closer than 20 feet to any property line, unless approved by the Zoning Administrator.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section F. - Traffic Control Devices:
If the traffic forecasted to be generated by a use within a nonresidential district will necessitate, in order to handle turning movements into and out of the use on a major thoroughfare, traffic control devices for that use to insure public safety, the developer shall install such devices as are necessary to handle the traffic generated by the development. Such determination shall be made by the Zoning Administrator and approved by the Mayor and Council.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section G. - State Department of Transportation Approval:
All entrances or exits to any street or drive, public or private, from or to any State highway shall be approved by the State Department of Transportation prior to the construction of such street or drive, or the issuance of any development permit for any improvement to be served by such street or drive, but permit approval shall not be held longer than 30 days.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section H. - Private Streets:
Private streets within any district shall not be used to satisfy the off-street parking requirements of this ordinance. Private streets within any district shall be assigned names and locations and names shall be shown on plans required for the issuance of building and development permits as provided in Article XIV. All private street names shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator to avoid conflicting names.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section I. - Off-Street Automobile Parking:
Off-street automobile parking shall be provided in accordance with all applicable provisions of this section.
1.
Plans Required: A parking plan for all but single family residential uses shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator with the building plans. He shall review the proposed parking plan to insure its conformance with all applicable provisions of this ordinance.
2.
Design Standards: Except provisions for single family residences, all parking facilities, including entrances, exits, and maneuvering areas, shall comply with the following provisions:
a.
shall have access to a public street;
b.
shall be graded and paved, including access drive(s), and be curbed when needed for effective drainage control as determined by the Zoning Administrator;
c.
shall have all spaces marked with paint lines, curb stones, or other similar designations;
d.
each space shall have not less than 162 square feet, and shall not be less than 9 feet wide and 18 feet deep, exclusive of passageways. There shall be adequate interior drives to connect each space with a public street;
e.
shall be drained so as to prevent damage to abutting properties or public streets;
f.
shall be separated from sidewalks and streets in public right-of-way by wheel bumpers and an adequate reserve strip;
g.
the parking area including space and driveway arrangement shall conform to the geometric design standards established by the City;
h.
adequate lighting shall be provided if the facilities are to be used at night. Such lighting shall be arranged and installed so as not to reflect or cause glare on abutting properties.
3.
Location: All parking facilities shall be located in accordance with the following provisions:
a.
the required space shall be provided on the same lot with the use it serves, except as provided herein;
b.
where provision of the required parking spaces involves one or more parcels or tracts of land that are not a part of the lot on which the principal use is located, the developer shall submit with his application for a permit, an instrument which subjects said parcels or tracts to parking uses for the principal use it serves. The developer shall pay the necessary fee and the Zoning Administrator shall have said instrument registered in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court.
c.
where an increase in the number of spaces by a change or enlargement of use of where such spaces are provided collectively or used jointly by two or more buildings or establishments, the required spaces may be located and maintained at a distance not to exceed 300 feet from an institutional building or other nonresidential building served.
4.
Joint Use of Parking Facilities: The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that one-half of the parking space required for churches, theaters or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night and on Sundays.
5.
Use of Area: No parking area may be used for the sale, repair, dismantling, servicing, or long term storage of any vehicles or equipment unless permitted by the district in which the area is located.
6.
Parking of Business Vehicles: The parking of business vehicles in an "R" district, other than ordinary passenger automobiles, shall be within a garage or carport or within a side or rear yard except for official governmental vehicles.
7.
Required Spaces: The number of parking spaces or area required for a particular use shall be as follows:
EXPAND
MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS BY USES
USES PARKING SPACES
RESIDENTIAL
Dormitory for Worker Employed on the Premises 1 per 3 employees plus 1 per dormitory manager.
Dwelling, Multi-family (including one bedrm. units) 2 per dwelling unit.
Dwelling, Single-family Detached 2 per dwelling unit.
Dwelling, Townhouse/Condominium 2 per dwelling unit.
Senior Housing 1 space per dwelling unit.
Group Home 1 per employee plus 1 per @ 2 bedrooms.
Manufactured Home, Industrialized Home 2 per dwelling unit.
Neighborhood Center 1 per 250 sf GFA.
Nursing Home 1 for @ 4 beds + 1 per 2 employees.
Boardinghouse 1 per room to be let.
COMMERCIAL - RETAIL
Boat Sales, Service and Repair 1 per 300 sf GFA, 2 spaces minimum.
Convenience Store (can include fuel service) 5 per 1,000 sf GFA.
Furniture, Home Furnishing & Equipment Store 1 per 500 sf GFA, 2 spaces minimum.
Food/Grocery Store 1 per 200 sf GFA.
Hardware Store 1 per 200 sf GFA.
Liquor Store 1 per 400 sf GFA.
Manufactured Home Sales 4 per @ sales person plus 1 for @ employee.
Motor Vehicle Parts Store 1 per 400 sf GFA + 1 per @ employee on max. work shift.
Motor Vehicle, Sales & Service 1.0 space per 250 sf of sales floor area + 2 spaces per service bay.
Restaurant, Cafeteria, Fast-Food (with seating) 1 per 4 seats, 1 add'l space for @ 2 employees.
Restaurant, Fast Food w/Drive-in Facility (no seating) 1 per employee on maximum shift.
Retail Stores, General Merchandise 1 per 200 sf GLA.(retail space only, not storage)
Shopping Center, Planned - Under 400,000 sf GLA 4 per 1,000 sf GLA.
+ Over 400,000 sf GLA 4.5 per 1,000 sf GLA.
Tire Sales, Service and Vulcanizing 1 per 300 sf GFA.
COMMERCIAL - SERVICE & ENTERTAINMENT
Amusement Center, Game Room 1 per 200 sf GFA, plus 1 per two tables/machines.
Amusement Park Spaces equal in number to 30% of capacity.
Bait Shop 1 per 250 sf GFA.
Bank or Financial Institution, Full Service 1 per 175 sf GFA.
Bar, Cocktail Lounge, Tavern, Night Club 1 per 4 seats.
Barber Shop, Beauty Salon 3 per workstation on maximum capacity.
Bed and Breakfast Home 1 per guest room, plus 2 per owner's dwelling unit.
Bowling Alley 4 per alley.
Dry Cleaning 1 per 200 sf GFA.
Funeral Home/Mortuary 1 per 4 seats in chapel + 1 per 2 employees + spaces for company vehicles.
Gas Station, Full Service 1 per @ employee plus 3 per service bay.
Gas Station, Self-Serve (fuel only) 1 per employee.
Health Club and Facilities 1 per 200 sf GFA.
Hotel, Motel, Motor Lodge 1 per sleeping room or suite, 1 add'l space for @ 2 employees.
Laboratory, Research & Development Facilities 1.5 per employee.
Laundromat 1 per 200 sf GFA.
Machinery Sales, Service and Repair 4 per @ sales person plus 1 for @ other employees.
Miniature Golf Course 3 per @ hole + 1 per employee on maximum shift.
Motor Vehicle Oil Change Shop 3 per service bay.
Motor Vehicle Race Track 1 per 4 seats.
Motor Vehicle Repair & Body Shop 1 per 150 sf GFA.
Offices (business, medical, dental, and professional) 1 per 225 sf GFA for single floor designs; 1 per 275 sf GFA for designs with two or more floors.
Pet Shop and Dog Grooming Shop 1 per 400 sf GFA w/ a minimum of 4 spaces.
Printing, Publishing and Engraving 1 per 2 employees on premises + 1 per 300 sf of sales space.
Repair Service, General Merchandise 1 per 2 employees on premises + 1 per 300 sf of sales space.
RV Sales and Camper Sales, Service & Repair 4 spaces for @ sales person plus 1 per employee.
Shooting Range, Indoor 1 per employee plus 1 per shooting lane.
Studio for Art, Photograph and Similar Uses 1 per 400 sf GFA, 3 spaces minimum.
Theater, Cinema/Movie or Drama/Dance 1 per 3 seats.
Truck Terminal 1 per 1,000 sf GFA.
Veterinary Clinic 4 spaces per doctor, plus 1 per additional employee.
Video Store 1 per 200 sf GFA.
INDUSTRIAL - STORAGE/WAREHOUSING/WHOLESALE TRADE
Mini-Warehouse (Self-Service Storage Facilities) 1 per 10 storage units + 1 per employee.
Warehouse and Storage Buildings 1 per employee on maximum working shift, plus space for storage of truck or vehicles used.
Junkyard, Salvage Yard. 2 per employee.
Wholesale, Trade Establishments 1 per employee, plus 1 per 200 sf of sales floor area
INDUSTRIAL - MANUFACTURING ESTABLISHMENT/PROCESSING
Manufacturing and Industrial Uses 1 per employee on the maximum working shift.
Contract Construction 1 per 250 sf of gross office space + 1 per non-office on-site employee.
Mineral Extraction & Processing 1 per 2 employees on maximum working shift.
PUBLIC/INSTITUTIONAL
Ambulance Services 1 per @ emergency vehicle plus 1 add'l space for each employee.
Art Gallery 1 per 250 sf GFA.
Auditorium, Assembly Hall, Civic Center, Community Center; Stadiums; Sports Arena 1 per 4 seats or bench seating spaces.
Cemetery, mausoleum 1 per employee.
Childcare Facilities 1 per @ 1.5 employees + 1 per 4 pupils.
Church 1 per 4 seats or bench seating spaces.
Club and Lodges, Non-Commercial 1 per 100 sf GFA.
Convent & Monastery 1 per 2 beds.
Fire Station 1 per each employee on the maximum working shift.
Hospital, Health and Medical Institution 1 per 2 patient beds, 1 additional for @ 3 employees.
Library 1 per 400 sf GFA + 1 per 2 employees.
Museum 1 per 250 sf GFA.
Police Station/Correctional Facility 2 per employee on the maximum working shift, plus 1 per 8 inmates considering the maximum inmate holding capacity.
Post Office 1 per 200 sf GFA + 1 per employee on maximum working shift.
Recycling Center 1 per employee.
School, Public or Private Elementary/Middle 2 per classroom, but not less than 1 per full-time employee.
School, Public or Private High 1 per 3 students + 1 per full-time employee.
School, College/Vocational/Technical 10 per classroom.
TRANSPORTATION/COMMUNICATION/UTILITIES
Bus Terminal 4 per a loading and unloading bay.
Radio, TV & Communication Transmission Tower 1 per 2 employees on premises + 1 per 300 sf of sales or customer space.
Utility Facilities 1 per employee + 1 per stored vehicle.
Water Treatment Facilities 1 per employee.
PARK/RECREATION/CONSERVATION
Golf Courses and Club Houses, Private Six per hole, plus additional spaces for each accessory facility.
Golf Courses and Club Houses, Public Eight per hole, plus additional spaces for each accessory facility.
Golf Driving Range 2 per driving tee.
Neighborhood Recreation/Community Center, Private 15 spaces minimum
Park with Recreational Facilities Spaces equal in number to 30% of capacity.
Recreational Vehicle Park 1.5 per @ RV space.
Shooting Range, Outdoor Skeet Range & Trap Range: 1 per employee plus 1 for @ shooter. Target Range: 1 per employee plus 1 per shooting lane.
Skating Rink, Roller and Ice 5 spaces per 1,000 sf of GFA
Swimming Pool, Public 30 spaces minimum.
AGRICULTURAL
Agricultural Services 2 per 3 employees or 1 per 400 sf GFA.
Kennel 1 per employee + 1 per 1,000 sf GFA.
Lumber Yard 1 per @ 500 sf GFA.
Meat Pack & Processing/Slaughter Yard 1 per 1,000 sf GFA.
Nursery/Greenhouse 1 per 400 sf of GFA, plus 1 per 2,000 sf of exterior nursery area.
Saw Mill 1 per employee.
Stock Yard 1 per employee on maximum shift.
  8.
Interpretation of Required Spaces: In connection with Section I-7 above, the following shall apply:
a.
The parking requirements in the chart do not limit other parking requirements contained in these regulations.
b.
The parking requirements in the chart do not limit special requirements which may be imposed with special use exceptions approved under Article XVI.
c.
Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall be construed to be the next highest whole number.
d.
The parking space requirements for a use not specifically listed in the chart shall be the same as for a listed use of similar characteristics of parking demand generation.
9.
Residential Parking. All parking areas serving single-family detached or attached dwellings shall conform to the following requirements:
a.
The maximum number of parking spaces allowed on any residential lot in addition to those provided by a garage or carport shall be determined by the number of bedrooms in the dwelling located on that lot.
One to two bedroom dwellings shall be permitted two parking spaces.
Three bedroom dwellings shall be permitted three parking spaces.
Four or more bedroom dwellings shall be permitted four parking spaces.
b.
Parking shall not be allowed directly in front of any single-family dwelling, nor shall the area of parking exceed fifty percent of the area of the front yard as measured from the front of the principal facade, except in those cases where (an) improved parking space(s) was (were) in existence prior to the adoption of this Amendment, or where a garage or carport facing the street on which the dwelling fronts is built into the dwelling as an integral part of the structure.
c.
All off-street residential spaces and driveways shall be improved in compliance with Section I.2 of the Article, and in the case of a gravel surface, shall be curbed on all sides with a durable material in a such a way as to prevent dispersal or erosion of the surface.
d.
Parking spaces and driveways may be located in one side yard only, and in back yards, except where a garage or carport facing the street on which the dwelling fronts is built into the dwelling as an integral part of the structure.
e.
If garages or carports are converted to living area, then the off-street parking requirements must be met elsewhere on the lot.
f.
No inoperable vehicle shall be permitted in any residential district for more than 14 days unless it is in an enclosed garage. All repairs shall be made in an enclosed garage. Bona fide automobile restorations shall be excluded from this provision so long as the same shall be completed within one year and limited to two vehicles which shall be maintained under a full car cover.
g.
No commercial vehicle as licensed by the State with gross vehicle weight exceeding 11,000 lbs shall be allowed to park in the R-1, R-1A, or R-2 zoning districts.
h.
Recreational vehicles are prohibited from parking in the front yard of R-1, R-1A, and R-2 zoning districts.
i.
Commercial Vehicles licensed by the State shall not be allowed to park overnight in the street in a residential district.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section J. - Off-Street Loading Requirements:
Off-street loading shall be established in accordance with all applicable provisions of this section.
1.
Design Standards: Where required, one or more off-street loading spaces shall be provided on the same or adjoining premises with the facility it serves, either inside or outside a building and shall:
a.
have a minimum dimension of 13.5 feet by 60 feet by 14.5 feet overhead clearance;
b.
be drained to eliminate standing water and prevent damage to abutting property and/or public streets and alleys, and surfaced with erosion-resistant material;
c.
be located so as not to hinder the free movement of vehicles or pedestrians over a street, sidewalk, or alley.
2.
Use of Area: Loading space(s) shall be maintained in a clean, orderly and dust-free condition at the expense of the owner or lessee and not used for the sale, repair, dismantling, or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials, or supplies.
3.
Mixed Uses in a Building: Where a building is used for more than one use or for different uses, and where the floor area used for each use for which loading space is required is below the minimum for required loading spaces but the aggregate floor area used is greater than such minimum, then off-street loading spaces shall be provided as if the entire building were used for that use in the building for which the most spaces are required. In such cases, the Zoning Administrator may make reasonable requirements for the location of required loading spaces.
4.
Required Spaces: The number of spaces required for a particular use shall be as follows:
EXPAND
Use of Use Category Floor Area Loading Spaces Required
Retail Store, Department Store, Restaurant, Wholesale House, Warehouse, General Service, Manufacturing, or Industrial Establishments 2,000 - 10,000 One
10,000 - 20,000 Two
20,000 - 40,000 Three
40,000 - 60,000 Four
Each 50,000 over 60,000 One Additional
Apartment Building, Motel, Hotel, Offices or Office Building, Hospital or similar Institutions or places of public assembly 5,000 - 10,000 One
10,000 - 100,000 Two
100,000 - 200,000 Three
Each 100,000 over 200,000 One Additional
  5.
Interpretation of Required Spaces: In connection with Section J-4 above, the following shall apply:
a.
The loading space requirements apply to all districts but do not limit the special requirements which may be imposed in these regulations.
b.
The loading space requirements in this Article do not limit special requirements which may be imposed in connection with special use exceptions which may be permitted under Article XV.
c.
Under the provisions of Article XVI the Board of Appeals may waive or reduce the loading space requirements whenever the character of the use is such as to make unnecessary the full provisions of loading facilities, where provision is made for community loading facilities, or where provision of loading space requirements is impractical under certain conditions for uses which contain less than 10,000 square feet of floor area.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
