ARTICLE IV. - CROSS-CONNECTIONS, AUXILIARY INTAKE, BY-PASSES AND INTER-CONNECTIONS

Sec. 8-101. - Definitions.
That the following definitions and terms shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this article.
Auxiliary intake. Any piping connection or other device whereby water may be secured from a source other than that normally used.
By-pass. Any system or piping or other arrangement whereby the water may be diverted around any part or portion of a water purification plant.
Cross-connection. Any physical connection whereby the public water supply is connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either inside or outside of any building or buildings, in such manner that a flow of water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation of valves or because of ineffective check or back-pressure valves; or because of any other arrangement.
Inter-connection. Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir, or other device which does or may contain sewerage or other waste or liquid which would be capable of imparting contamination to the public water supply.
Person. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including, any individual firm or association, and any municipal or private corporation organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.
Public water supply. The waterworks system furnishing water to the City of Chatsworth for general use and which supply is recognized as the public water supply by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources/Environmental Protection Division.
(Ord. of 4-13-98, § 1)
Sec. 8-102. - Compliance.
The City of Chatsworth Public Water Supply is to comply with Chapter 391-3-5-.13 of the Georgia Rules for Safe Drinking Water and (PL 93-523) of the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, legally adopted in accordance with this code, which pertains to cross-connections; and establish an effective, ongoing program to control these undesirable water uses.
(Ord. of 4-13-98, § 2)
Sec. 8-103. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass, or inter-connection to be made: or allow one to exist for any purpose whatsoever.
(Ord. of 4-13-98, § 3)
Sec. 8-104. - Filing with city required.
Any person whose premises are supplied with water from the public water supply, and who also has on the same premises a separate source of water supply or stores water in an uncovered or unsanitary storage reservoir from which the water stored therein is circulated through a piping system, shall file with the superintendent of the water commission of the city a statement of the non-existence of unapproved or unauthorized cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, by-passes, or inter-connections. Such statement shall also contain an agreement that no cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass, or inter-connection will be permitted upon the premises.
(Ord. of 4-13-98, § 4)
Sec. 8-105. - Inspections.
It shall be the duty of the city public water supply to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross-connections with the public water supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and reinspection based on potential health hazards involved shall be as established by the superintendent of the water commission of the city.
(Ord. of 4-13-98, § 5)
Sec. 8-106. - Right of entry.
The superintendent of the water commission or his authorized representative shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the city public water supply for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems thereof for cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, by-pass, or inter-connections. On request the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
(Ord. of 4-13-98, § 6)
Sec. 8-107. - Violations to be corrected within a reasonable time frame.
Any person who now has cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, by-passes, or inter-connections in violation of the provisions of this article shall be allowed a reasonable time within which to comply with the provisions or this article. After a thorough investigation of existing conditions and an appraisal of the time required to complete the work, the amount of time shall be designated by the superintendent of the water commission of the city.
(Ord. of 4-13-98, § 7)
Sec. 8-108. - When use of an approved protective device on the service line required.
Where the nature of use of the water supplied a premises by the water department is such that it is deemed:
(1)
Impractical to provide an effective air-gap separation.
(2)
That the owner and/or occupant of the premises cannot or is not willing to demonstrate to the official in charge of the system, or his designated representative, that the water use and protective features of the plumbing are such as to propose no threat to the safety or potability of the water supply.
(3)
That the nature and mode of operation within a premises are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing.
(4)
There is a likelihood that protective measures may be subverted, altered, or disconnected.
The superintendent of the water commission of the city, or his designated representative, shall require the use of an approved protective device on the service line serving the premises to assure that any contamination that may originate in the customer's premises is contained therein. The protective devices shall be a reduced pressure zone type backflow preventer approved by the superintendent of the water commission as to manufacture, model, and size. The method of installation of backflow protective devices shall be approved by the superintendent of the water commission of the city prior to installation and shall comply with the criteria set forth by the superintendent of the water commission.
The installation shall be at the expense of the owner or occupant of the premises.
(1)
Reduced pressure principle backflow devices and double check valve assemblies shall be tested and inspected at least annually.
(2)
Periodic testing shall be performed by the department's certified tester or another certified tester approved by the department. This testing will be done at the owner's expense.
(3)
Backflow testing shall be conducted during the department's regular business hours. Exceptions to this, when at the request of the owner, may require additional charges to cover the increased costs to the department.
(4)
Any backflow preventer which fails during a periodic test will be repaired or replaced, at the owner's expense. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of the repair the device will be re-tested at owners expense to insure correct operation. High hazard situations will not be allowed to continue unprotected if the backflow preventer fails the test and cannot be repaired immediately. In other situations, a compliance date of not more than 30 days after the test date will be established. The owner is responsible for spare parts, repair tools, or a replacement device. Parallel installation of two devices is an effective means of the owner insuring that uninterrupted water service during testing or repair of devices and is strongly recommended when the owner desires such continuity.
(5)
Backflow prevention devices will be tested more frequently than specified in subsection (b)(1) above, in cases where there is a history of test failures and the department feels that due to the degree of hazard involved, additional testing is warranted. Cost of the additional tests will be born by the owner.
Where only one unit is installed and the continuance of service is critical, the superintendent of the water commission shall notify, in writing, the occupant of the premises of plans to discontinue water service and arrange for a mutually acceptable time to test and/or repair the device. The water system shall require the occupant of the premises to make all repairs indicated promptly, and the expense of such repairs shall be born by the owner or occupant of the premises. These repairs shall be made by qualified personnel, acceptable to the superintendent of the water commission of the city.
Fees and Charges
Fees and charges for testing and repair work are as follows:
(1)
Testing fees .....$30.00
(2)
Re-testing fees .....30.00
(3)
Repair work,
plus parts unless provided by owner. .....25.00
per hour
(4)
Charges for after-hours inspection or repair .....40.00/
inspection,
$35.00/hr
repair.
(Ord. of 4-13-98, § 8)
Sec. 8-109. - Protection from possible contamination required.
The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the public water supply be protected from possible contamination as specified herein. Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
WATER UNSAFE
FOR DRINKING
Minimum acceptable sign shall have black letters one-inch high located on a red background.
(Ord. of 4-13-98, § 9)
Sec. 8-110. - Violation.
Any person who neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction therefor, shall be fined not less than $10.00 nor more than $100.00, and each day of continued violation after conviction shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the foregoing fines and penalties, the superintendent of the water commission of the city shall discontinue the public water supply service at any premises upon which there is found to be a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass, or inter-connection, and service shall not be restored until the public water supply has been adequately protected from cross-connections or backflow conditions.
(Ord. of 4-13-98, § 10)
Secs. 8-111—8-130. - Reserved.
