ARTICLE XII. - RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (SEASONAL), R-3

Section 1200. - Purpose and intent.
There exists in White County a large percentage of the county wide housing stock that is utilized for seasonal, second home and vacation housing. The most recent U.S. Census reported that more than 20 percent of the total housing stock in White County was classified as seasonal housing. Many of these housing units are second homes or vacation homes that are placed in vacation cabin rental programs. Additionally, there are rental cabin resorts located primarily in the northern sections of White County. Other types of seasonal housing include the placement of park model recreation vehicles that are employed primarily by visitors and vacationers during the summer and fall seasons in recreation vehicle (RV) park developments and resorts. Campgrounds and outdoor recreation camps and retreats also house visitors temporarily in White County throughout the tourist season.
The purpose and intent of the Seasonal Residential (SR) land use classification is to establish an area to provide housing and service needs of vacationers and seasonal residents or others. The land uses in this land use classification must also meet additional development requirements found in the White County Code for their respective type of development.
This district also includes uses that require a special use permit (SUP) from the White County Commission. Uses requiring special use permits are those that would not be appropriate without restrictions and is not permitted by right or conditionally, but allowed through regulations as to the number, area, location, relation to neighborhoods, operations or other pertinent considerations and specification/criteria as specified in this Code.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1201. - Permitted uses.
1.
Rental tourist cabins developments in accordance with the appropriate ordinance in the White County Code.
2.
Recreation vehicle parks and recreation trailer developments in accordance with the appropriate ordinance in the White County Code. Planned developments for RV lots require a minimum of one-half acre per lot.
3
Outdoor recreation uses, camps, campgrounds and retreat facilities are permitted uses provided that all structures and activity areas are buffered and located a minimum of 100 feet from the boundary of any other land use district.
4.
Bed and breakfast establishments and inns not to exceed 15 guest rooms.
5.
Single-family residences placed with vacation rental cabin agencies or placed in a shortterm rental program provided that the owner obtains an occupational tax certificate and a certificate of taxing authority.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1202. - Conditional uses.
1.
Convenience retail store and service offices not to exceed 500 square feet.
2.
Parks, playgrounds, community centers, swimming pools, golf courses and other recreational facilities operated on a non-profit basis.
3.
Public, semi-public buildings, structures and uses.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1203. - Special use permit.
1.
Amusement parks, attractions and performance entertainment facilities.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
