ARTICLE XIV. - HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT, C-2

Section 1400. - Purpose and intent.
The Highway Business District (HB), is intended to provide adequate space for various types of general business uses that serve residents on a regional level rather than at a neighborhood or community level, including the retailing of major goods and services of large scale automotive and other types of more intensive commercial activities and establishments that rely on highway-oriented, passer-by traffic. This district also recognizes that many tourism businesses and venues are located along highway and major arterial routes in order to take advantage of the high traffic volume from visitors to the area.
This district also includes a number of businesses and establishments uses that require a special use permit (SUP) from the White County Commission. Uses requiring special use permits are those that would not be appropriate without restrictions and is not permitted by right or conditionally, but allowed through regulations as to the number, area, location, relation to neighborhoods, operations or other pertinent considerations and specification/criteria as specified in this Code.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1401. - Permitted uses.
1.
Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to one or more permitted uses.
2.
Any use permitted in the Community Commercial District, but not subject to any specified square footage limitations; conditional uses shall remain conditional in this district.
3.
Agricultural equipment, implement sales, service, rental and repairs.
4.
Amphitheaters and stadiums.
5.
Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics.
6.
Assembly halls, auditoriums and meeting halls.
7.
Auction facilities, provided that storage yards are located at the rear of the property, are fenced and screened.
8.
Automobile, truck, motorcycle, boat, and other vehicle sales, rental, repair, service, and part sales, provided that storage yards or areas are located at the rear of the property and are fenced and screened.
9.
Automobile and vehicle washes, including automated, full service or self-service that meet stormwater management requirements from the Georgia Storm water Management Manual.
10.
Banks and financial institutions.
11.
Billiard halls, pool rooms and amusement/video arcades and gaming facilities.
12.
Bowling alleys and skating rinks.
13.
Building and home materials, supplies sales and lumber yards.
14.
Bus passenger stations and terminals.
15.
Business and technology parks.
16.
Butcher shops.
17.
Cabinet shops.
18.
Call centers and data communication facilities.
19.
Camper and recreational vehicle sales, service, and repair, provided that storage yards or areas are located at the rear of the property and are fenced and screened.
20.
Cemeteries, churches, temples, synagogues and places of worship set back 50 feet from all property lines.
21.
Clubs, lodges and fraternal institutions.
22.
Colleges, universities and technical college campuses.
23.
Contractor's establishments, building, electrical, plumbing and swimming pools.
24.
Convalescent homes, nursing homes, personal care homes, group care homes, rehabilitation centers, and similar institutionalized residential facilities involving professional care and treatment.
25.
Department stores.
26.
Equipment sales, rental and service, provided that storage yards or areas are located at the rear of the property and are fenced and screened.
27.
Exterminator and pest control services.
28.
Firearms, hunting and camping equipment sales and service, including gun clubs and indoor shooting ranges. This does not include the manufacturing of ammunition.
29.
Funeral homes, mortuaries, mausoleums, and crematories.
30.
Furniture, fixture, home furnishings, including rental, finishing, repair and sales, but not manufacturing.
31.
Garden supply centers, greenhouses and landscaping services.
32.
Golf courses and driving ranges, miniature golf, batting cages, go-cart and similar recreation uses.
33.
Health clubs and spas.
34.
Heliports and helistops.
35.
Hospitals and health clinics; does not include pain management clinics.
36.
Hotels, motels and other lodging type inns.
37.
Household appliance sales and repair, provided that storage yards or areas are located at the rear of the property and are fenced and screened.
38.
Kennel boarding care (shortterm) facilities. This does not include animal breeding facilities.
39.
Lawn mower and power equipment sales, rental, and service provided storage yards or areas are located at the rear of the property and are fenced and screened.
40.
Machine shops.
41.
Mini-warehouse and mini-storage facilities provided storage yards or areas are located at the rear of the property and are fenced and screened.
42.
Manufactured housing and building sales, but not including residential occupancy of such housing.
43.
Monument sales establishments.
44.
Offices, business, medical and professional.
45.
Open air businesses and flea markets provided that parking is provided at the front of the facility and market area are located at the sides and rear of the property; such uses shall be fenced and screened.
46.
Parking lots and parking garages.
47.
Pawn shops, provided that storage yards or areas are located at the rear of the property and are fenced and screened.
48.
Pet stores and grooming establishments.
49.
Printing establishments.
50.
Race tracks, provided the site contains a minimum of 25 acres.
51.
Radio and television studios, communication and broadcasting facilities.
52.
Research and scientific laboratories.
53.
Restaurants, indoor and outdoor dining.
54.
Sign fabrication and painting shops.
55.
Taxi and limousine services.
56.
Taxidermist shops.
57.
Theaters, indoor and outdoor.
58.
Tourist shops, retail, dining, services, winery tasting rooms, and outdoor recreation.
59.
Training for educational facilities that are for profit.
60.
Trash collection establishments.
61.
Truck terminals and stops.
62.
Welding shops.
63.
Wholesale establishments, provided that storage yards or areas are located at the rear of the property and are fenced and screened.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1402. - Conditional uses.
1.
Agri-tourism, heritage tourism facilities and attractions, as defined by this resolution, with required driveway access improvements and parking facilities and provided that all structures and activity areas are buffered and located a minimum of 50 feet from the boundary of any other land use district.
2.
Warehousing uses, provided that storage yards or areas are located at the rear of the property and are fenced and screened.
3.
Radio or communication towers, transmission or communication substations.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1403. - Special use permit.
1.
Palm-reading, clairvoyant, astrologers and fortunetelling.
2.
Substance abuse and treatment facilities.
3.
Hookah bars.
4.
Internet cafes.
5.
Pain management clinics.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
