ARTICLE XVI. - PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT, (PD)

Section 1600. - Purpose and intent.
It is the purpose of the Planned Development District (PD) to provide and encourage a voluntary alternative to the strict segregation of lot and property uses contained in the other districts in this resolution. The rural portions of White County are very important to the overall scenic, open space and agricultural character of the county. Typical practices of platting subdivisions and strip commercial centers create sprawling development land out with little regard for natural, agricultural, scenic and historic resources, with very little variety in design and density, and with little open space accessible to nearby property owners or the public. The Planned Development District is a flexible alternative approach which encourages the grouping of buildings and lots on a small portion of the tract where the developer can maintain the same residential, but offer smaller lots with the remaining land dedicated or reserved for open space, agriculture or recreation. The land within an approved planned development is intended to be planned and developed by a single developer or group as a single, entire unit of land. Land within a Planned Unit Development District shall not be subdivided and sold to others prior to completion of the installation of required improvements.
It is the intent of the Planned Development District to provide maximum flexibility with regard to the mixture of land uses. Within a Planned Development District, any land use, may be permitted if such use or uses can be shown to provide an orderly relation and function to other uses in the development and to existing land uses, as well as with due regard to the comprehensive plan. The permitted use or uses of property located in the planned development shall be determined at the time the land use district and development plan is approved, and development within the district shall be limited to those uses specifically requested as part of the application and approved by the board of commissioners, unless otherwise specifically noted in the board's approval of the Planned Development Land Use District.
This district is to be utilized as a "floating zone" which shall mean that areas will not be pre-designated as Planned Development Districts but rather each such designation shall result from a specific and separate application for amendment. Planned Development Districts are separate land use districts and shall follow the same amendment procedures as other districts. Unless otherwise stated in this section, the development standards and the land uses which are presented with the application for amendment shall, if approved, become the standards for the subject property and shall become a part of the land use regulations.
A Planned Development District must contain a minimum area of 20 contiguous acres, a minimum lot width of 500 feet and must have a minimum of 100 feet of frontage on a public street, which shall provide access to such public street.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1601. - Permitted uses.
1.
Any use permitted in a residential district.
2.
Commercial, office, public, semi-public and industrial uses serving the residents of the development, not to exceed 40 percent of the total land area of the development.
3.
Agricultural, forestry and recreation uses established for open space, green space and amenities serving the development and surrounding community.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1602. - Letter of intent and development agreement.
Applications for land use to a Planned Development District shall require a letter of intent from the developer, which shall contain a report that explains the intent, type, nature, size and characteristics of the proposed development. The letter shall contain data stating the total number of acres (or square feet) proposed for each type of land use, including public facilities, within the proposed development. In addition, the letter of intent should provide a clear explanation of why the proposed development standards are necessary if the above proposed standards vary from existing standards in the land use regulations.
A development agreement is a negotiated agreement between the county and a developer. It shall include how the development will be phased and constructed over an extended period of time. The development agreement shall bring certainty and flexibility of requirements that will govern the development over the established time. In reciprocating to "lock in" the current and negotiated development requirements for the development over the established time period, the county shall receive agreement from the developer to install infrastructure or take other agreed upon actions that further the public interest.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1603. - Site plan approval.
Applications for a Planned Development District shall require a site plan. Site plans shall be prepared by a professional engineer or architect and include the stamp or seal of registration and initials on the plan.
All site plans required by this section, shall at a minimum, contain the following information:
1.
Title or name of the proposed development.
2.
Scale (minimum) 1" = 100 feet.
3.
Sheet size (maximum) 24"x36".
4.
North arrow and graphic engineering scale.
5.
Description of water supply and sewerage system.
6.
Vicinity map.
7.
Total acreage.
8.
Total disturbed acreage.
9.
Name, address, and phone number of owner of record.
10.
Name, address, and phone number of preparer of plan.
11.
Date of plan drawing and revision date(s) if any.
12.
Existing buildings and structures on or encroaching on the tract.
13.
Proposed buildings, structures, common/green space and amenity areas on the tract.
14.
Existing streets, utilities, and utility easements on and adjacent to the tract.
15.
Proposed streets, utilities, fire and life safety infrastructure and easements on and adjacent to the tract.
16.
Environmental conditions (streams, wetlands, watersheds, groundwater recharge areas, flood hazard areas, river corridor protection boundaries, mountain and hillside protection areas, etc.).
17.
Right-of-way widths and pavement widths for abutting streets and existing and proposed streets.
18.
Locations of drainage structures and stormwater management facilities.
19.
Minimum building setbacks.
20.
Location of nearest fire hydrant.
21.
Land surveyor's stamp, certificate, and signature, including field survey and closure statement.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1604. - Recommendations for design.
The following specifications are not regulations, but recommended guidelines to be utilized:
1.
Unless topographical or other barriers protect the privacy of existing adjoining uses, structures or buildings located at the perimeter of the planned unit development should be setback a distance of at least 100 feet to protect the privacy and amenities of adjacent, existing uses.
2.
Structures or buildings located at the perimeter of the development should be permanently screened in a manner that sufficiently protects the privacy and amenities of the adjacent, existing uses.
3.
Uses should be predominantly residential in accordance with the use recommendations of the comprehensive plan.
4.
Where appropriate, the planned development should provide for more than just one type of dwelling unit, such as townhouses, duplexes, and multi-family dwellings.
5.
Multi-family dwellings should not comprise more than 25 percent of the total dwelling units within the proposed development.
6.
Sites for churches, schools, community or club buildings, and similar civic or semi-public facilities are encouraged to be provided, where appropriate.
7.
Commercial and offices uses, if proposed, should be located in careful relation to other land uses within and outside of the development; they should be scaled so that they primarily serve the occupants of the planned development; they should be designed and oriented to face the interior of the planned development rather than oriented toward passer-by traffic exterior to the planned development. In residential districts, the amount of land in a planned development devoted to commercial and office uses should not exceed 15 percent of the unit of land within the planned development unless it can be shown that a greater percentage of land devoted to such uses is more conducive to the mix of uses.
8.
Industrial uses are not typically considered to be appropriate for inclusion within planned developments; however, such uses are not prohibited and may be proposed and approved in larger (e.g., 50 acres or more) planned developments where living and working areas need to be proximate to one another, subject to separation and screening requirements to avoid nuisances.
9.
Common space, open space, green space and amenity areas should be presented along with ownership agreements and maintenance programs for stormwater management facilities.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1605. - Revisions to the approved planned development application.
Any additions in the types of land uses, increases in the square footage or density, decreases in lot sizes, changes in the location or dimension of streets, decreases in dwelling unit floor areas, increases in non-residential floor areas, major alteration in the land use patterns, or other substantial changes in common space, or amenities which result in a development of such intent and character which has not been conceptually approved by the governing body shall require additional approval in accordance with the procedures established in this resolution and may require amendment of the development agreement. Otherwise, minor changes may be approved by the county planning department prior to issuance of building permits.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
