ARTICLE 7. - PRIVATE STREETS

Section 701. - Private streets permitted.
Private streets may, upon application, be permitted by the planning commission within subdivisions, subject to the requirements of this article. Applications for approval of private streets shall be considered by the planning commission. Following a recommendation by the administrative officer and director of public works, the planning commission shall consider the application and may impose conditions on the approval of private streets to ensure various public purposes and to mitigate potential problems with private streets. No final plat involving a private street shall be approved unless said final plat conforms to the requirements of this article.
Section 702. - Engineering plans required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct a new private street or alter an existing private street or to cause the same to be done without first obtaining approval of development plans and securing a development permit from the administrative officer and approval by the director of public works in accordance with the requirements of this resolution.
Section 703. - Standards for private streets.
All private streets shall be constructed to standards as specified in section 610 of this resolution.
Section 704. - Street names and signs.
Private streets shall be named, subject to the approval of the administrative officer and the mapping department. The subdivider of land involving a private street shall install street signs as approved by the director of public works. The sign signifying the private street may be required by the director of public works to be a different color than that of street signs provided for public streets, or designated "private" in order to distinguish maintenance responsibilities in the field.
Section 705. - Rights-of-ways.
Rights-of-way for private streets shall be designated on final plats as general purpose public access and utility rights-of-ways, along with the name of said private street. Said private right-of-way shall at minimum be of the same width as that required for the right-of-way of a public street for the type of public street (local, collector, etc.) most closely resembling the proposed private street. Rights-of-way for private streets shall not be included in any calculation of minimum lot size established by this resolution or any other county resolution. In the cases of private streets, the right-of-way for the private street shall be drawn as its own discrete parcel to be dedicated to a private homeowners association (i.e., not shown to be a part of any lot).
Section 706. - Maintenance.
The county shall not maintain, repair, resurface, rebuild, or otherwise improve streets, signs, drainage improvements or any other appurtenances within rights-of-ways established for private streets. A private maintenance agreement recorded with the county clerk of the superior court shall be required for any private street and other improvements within rights-of-ways established for private streets.
Section 707. - Specifications for final plats involving private streets.
No final plat involving a private street shall be approved by the administrative officer for recording unless and until it shall contain the following on the face of the plat:
a.
Deed book and page reference to the recorded covenant required by this article.
b.
"WARNING, White County has no responsibility to build, improve, maintain, or otherwise service the private streets, drainage improvements, and other appurtenances contained within the rights-of-ways for private streets shown on this plat."
c.
If water and/or sewer lines are installed, the following certificate of dedication shall be required.
"Certificate of Dedication. All water and sewer lines installed within the rights-of-ways shown on this plat for private street(s) are hereby dedicated to the White County Water and Sewer Authority.
___________
White County Water Authority
