ARTICLE VI. - PROMOTIONS, DEMOTIONS, TRANSFERS

Sec. 46-101. - Policy.
Vacancies in positions above the entry level in the classified service shall be filled as far as practical by qualified employees within the classified service, except when it is determined to be in the best interest of the county to fill the positions with candidates recruited from outside the classified service.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-102. - Promotion policy.
County employees are encouraged to develop new skills, expand knowledge of their work and make known their qualifications for promotion to more difficult and responsible positions. Every effort should be made to utilize those persons already employed by the classified service, provided they meet the minimum qualifications of a vacant position.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-103. - Demotions.
An employee may be demoted to a position in a lower pay grade for which he/she is qualified when:
(1)
The position held by the employee is abolished;
(2)
The position held by the employee is reclassified to a lower grade;
(3)
The employee voluntarily requests a lower classification;
(4)
The employee fails to perform duties in a satisfactory manner or otherwise violates standards of good conduct.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-104. - Demotion due to abolishment of position.
When the position held by an employee is abolished, and a transfer occurs pursuant to Section 7.07, the employee shall be demoted to a lower grade and step for which he/she is qualified if a lower grade position is available. The employee's pay shall remain the same rate in the lower pay grade provided the rate does not exceed the maximum rate for the lower position. If the employee's rate exceeds the maximum pay grade for the lower position, the employee will be paid at the maximum rate of the lower position.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-105. - Demotion due to reclassification.
If reclassification of a position results in its allocation to a lower level and pay range, and the employee cannot be transferred to another position at his/her pre-classification level, the employee shall be demoted to the lower grade position, but shall remain at the same level of pay.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-106. - Voluntary demotions.
(a)
An employee may submit a written request for demotion to a vacant position in a class with a lower pay grade. Approval is subject to all affected department managers determining that the employee is qualified to perform the duties and responsibilities of the lower class position.
(b)
When a demotion is voluntary, the employee's pay rate shall be determined by the county manager or elected official but shall not exceed the lesser of the previous pay rate or the maximum rate of the new class.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-107. - Transfers.
A position may be filled by transferring an employee from a position in the same class or in a different class in the same pay range involving the performance of similar duties and requiring essentially the same qualifications. Transfers must have the prior approval of the appropriate elected official or county manager.
(1)
Intra-departmental transfer.
a.
A supervising elected official or county manager may approve a transfer from a position to a vacant position in the same class at any time.
b.
The transfer of an employee from a position in one class to a position in another class may be made provided the supervising elected official or department manager certify that the employee meets the minimum qualifications for the class.
(2)
Inter-departmental transfer. A transfer of an employee from a position in one department to a vacant position in the same class in a different department shall have the approval of the appropriate elected official and department manager. The transfer is subject to the approval of the county manager.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Secs. 46-108—46-120. - Reserved.
