ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - Authority.
The county board of commissioners read and duly adopted "A Resolution to Establish a Personnel System."
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-2. - Purpose.
The rules and regulations are adopted to provide for the recruitment and development of the best available employee for each position in the service of the county. They provide for establishing orderly procedures for administering the personnel system in such a way as to be consistent with the following principles:
(1)
Recruiting, selecting, and advancing employees based on their relative ability, knowledge and skills;
(2)
Providing equitable and adequate compensation;
(3)
Training employees to assure high quality performance;
(4)
Retaining employees based on the adequacy of their performance, correcting inadequate performance, and separating employees whose inadequate performance cannot be corrected;
(5)
Assuring fair treatment of applicants and employees in all aspects of personnel administration without regard to political affiliation, race, color, national origin, sex, religious creed, age, disability or other protected characteristic and with proper regard for their privacy and constitutional rights as citizens; and
(6)
The state recognizes the doctrine of "employment at will" which means that in the absence of a written contract of employment for a defined duration, an employer may terminate an employee for good cause, bad cause or no cause at all, so long as it is not an illegal cause.
The policies and procedures of the county are not intended to create a contract of employment. Nothing contained in any policy or work rule of the county shall constitute a contract of employment or a contract or agreement for a definite or specified term of employment. Nor does anything in any policy or work rule of the county alter the "at-will" employment relationship between the County and its employees. Nothing contained in any policy or work rule of the county shall limit or otherwise restrict the option of the county or its supervisory employees to terminate the employment relationship. Either party to the employment relationship may conclude such relationship at any time, with or without cause.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-3. - Exempt service.
Officers, appointments and positions of the county who are exempt from these provisions unless specifically provided otherwise. The exempt service shall include the following:
(1)
Members of the board of commissioners and other elected officials;
(2)
County manager;
(3)
Members of boards, commissions and committees; and
(4)
Consultants and counsel rendering temporary professional service.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-4. - Classified service.
All the county government offices and positions not specifically placed in the exempt service by these policies and procedures.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-5. - Interpretation.
The regulations are intended to cover most personnel problems and actions, which will arise. The county manager with the advice of the board of commissioners shall interpret those not specifically covered. Such interpretations shall be in keeping with the intent of the previously referenced resolution and the purposes of the regulations.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-6. - Department policies.
(a)
Each department manager/elected official has the authority to establish additional policies or standard operating procedures, which specifically apply to that department's activity and may not apply to the general employee population. Supplementary departmental policies and standard operating procedures must be consistent and compatible with these rules and regulations.
(b)
Department policies and procedures will be in writing and reviewed by the director of human resources before departmental implementation for conformance to the personnel rules and regulations.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-7. - Administration.
The responsibility and authority for the administration and enforcement of the rules and regulations are vested in the county manager and supervising elected officials.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-8. - Adoption and amendment.
(a)
The board of commissioners expressly reserves the right to modify, alter, amend, add, delete or change rules and regulations, as it, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
(b)
Amendment, changes or revisions of the personnel rules and regulations as approved by the board of commissioners shall be distributed to all departments.
(c)
These rules and regulations shall become effective on the date adopted by resolution of the board of commissioners. These rules, regulations and amendments thereto shall remain in effect until amended by similar resolution.
(d)
If any section or other portion of these regulations is found to be invalid by duly constituted authority, it shall not affect the validity of the balance of these regulations.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-9. - Definition of terms.
Active pay status. Authorized paid leave, holiday, or time worked.
Adverse action. Action unfavorably affecting an employee's pay status without the employee's voluntary consent, including dismissal, demotion, suspension without pay, or reduction in pay.
Appeal. Application for review of an adverse action submitted or instituted by an employee.
Appointing authority. The person with authority to take personnel actions including appointments and dismissals such as supervising elected officials, department managers, the county manager or board of commissioners.
Class. A group of positions, which are sufficiently alike in general duties and responsibilities to warrant the use of the same title, class descriptions, and pay range.
Classification. Grouping positions in classes.
Classification date. The date an employee entered, transferred or was promoted to the current position. This is the date from which length of service in classification is computed for determination of probationary periods, order of layoff and eligibility for performance increases.
Classification plan. A schematic list of classes of positions.
Classified service. Includes all employees subject to these rules and regulations. Excluded from the classified service are all exempt service positions.
Class description. A written description of a class consisting of a class title, a general statement of the major function of work, illustrative duties and the qualifications for the class.
Class title. A title in the classification plan, which describes the nature of work of the position.
Compensation. Standard rates of pay, which have been established for the respective classes of work, as set forth in the pay plan.
Continuous service. Employment, which is uninterrupted except for authorized leaves of absence, suspension or separation due to reduction in work force.
Demotion. Assignment of an employee from one class to another, which has a lower pay grade.
Designee. The person or persons to whom the board of commissioners, county manager, elected officials or department managers delegate certain authority for the administration of the county.
Dismissal. Separation from employment for cause or separation during the probationary period.
Exempt service. Positions and employees not covered by these rules.
Full-time. A position, which requires an employee to work the full amount of hours scheduled for employees of the unit if the position is regularly scheduled for 32 hours or more per week.
Immediate family. Includes spouse, children, grandchildren, parents, grandparents, brother, sister, mother-in-law and father-in-law or any other person who resides in the employee's household or who is recognized by law as a dependent of the employee.
Layoff. Reduction of the number of employees due to lack of work, funds, abolition of position or other reasons not related to cause, delinquency, or misconduct on the part of the employee.
Leave. An approved type of absence from work as provided in these rules.
May. The word "may" is conditional, and implies that there is discretion as to whether a condition exists or an act or action will take place.
Performance evaluation. A formal system to evaluate and document job performance of employees made by the supervisor.
Performance pay increase. An increase established in the pay plan, which may be granted to an employee based on job performance.
Position. A group of duties and responsibilities assigned and budgeted requiring the full-time or part-time employment of one person.
Probationary employee. An employee serving a six-month trial period to determine fitness for the position.
Probationary period. A period of six months provided to allow the board of commissioners, elected official, county manager or department manager an opportunity to evaluate a new employee's performance and to decide whether or not the employee is to be retained.
Promotion. The assignment of an employee from one class to another, which has a higher pay grade.
Regular appointment. The appointment to an authorized position in the classified service.
Relative. Father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, grandson, or granddaughter.
Resignation. The act of voluntarily withdrawing from the employment.
Retirement. Retirement for the purpose of these rules and regulations is defined as the cessation of employment with the county after obtaining:
(1)
The age of 62 with ten continuous years of service; or
(2)
Twenty-five years of continuous service.
Shall/will. These terms are unconditional and imply that a condition exists or an act or action will take place.
Suspension. Relief from work for violation of the rules initiated by the elected official, county manager, department manager or other supervisor authorized to enforce disciplinary action.
Trainee. An employee undergoing a training period to learn the job duties or to attain education or certification.
Transfer. Action in which the employee moves from one budgeted position to another with no resulting title change, or if a title change does take place, there is no change in the pay range.
Unlawful discrimination. Employment practices which state and federal laws prohibit, and which include discrimination because of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, and political affiliation or any other protected characteristic.
Working test. A period of time during which a new employee or an employee who has been promoted to a higher position is being tested on job capability and performance.
Working period. The number of hours regularly scheduled to be worked during a work cycle.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Secs. 46-10—46-20. - Reserved.
