ARTICLE VI. - GROUNDWATER RECHARGE AREA PROTECTION

Sec. 30-161. - Title.
This article shall be know as the "Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Resolution of White County."
(Res. No. 2004-26, § I, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-162. - Groundwater recharge district.
A groundwater recharge area district is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the jurisdiction of the county that are mapped as significant recharge areas by the state department of natural resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18, 1989 edition. Said map is hereby adopted and made part of this article.
(Res. No. 2004-26, § II, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-163. - Determination of pollution susceptibility.
Each recharge area shall be determined to have a pollution susceptibility of high, medium or low based on the Georgia Pollution Susceptibility Map, Hydrologic Atlas 20, 1992 edition, prepared by the state department of natural resources. Said map is hereby adopted and made part of this article.
(Res. No. 2004-26, § III, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-164. - Permit requirements and enforcement.
No building permits or subdivision plan will be approved by the county unless the permit, request or plan is in compliance with the groundwater protection standards.
(1)
Enforcement. The county, its agent, officers and employees shall have the authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing their duties under this article and may take or cause to be made such examinations surveys or sampling as the county deems necessary.
a.
The planning commission or other person designated by the board of commissioners of the county is hereby designated as the administrator and enforcement officer for this article.
b.
The county shall have the authority to enforce this article; issue permits hereunder; and address violations or threatened violations hereof by issuance of violation notices, administrative orders and civil and criminal actions. All costs, fees and expenses in connection with such actions may be recovered as damages against the violator.
c.
Law enforcement officials or other officials having police powers shall have authority to assist the county in enforcement.
d.
Any person who commits, takes part in or assists in any violation of any provision of this article shall be fined not more than $1,000.00 for each offense or 60 days in jail. Each violation shall be a separate offense and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
e.
The county shall have the authority to issue cease and desist orders in the event of any violation of this article. Cease and desist orders may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as identified in section 30-166.
f.
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to remove the structure.
g.
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to restore the affected land to is original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable.
(2)
Permit review and site plan requirement. With the exception of certain exempted activities identified in subsection (3) hereinbelow, applications for a development permit within the groundwater recharge area district shall include a site plan. The following information is required for all site plans.
a.
A map or maps, drawn to scale of one inch equals 100 feet or other approved scale, showing all planned improvements including the width, depth and length of all existing and proposed structures, roads, water courses and drainage ways, water lines, wastewater and storm water facilities, and utility installations, shall be provided by the applicant.
b.
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site.
c.
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream of water body. Delineation of all defined or suspected wetlands, if applicable, should be included.
d.
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than ten feet.
e.
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
f.
A map of all planned land disturbance activity shall bear the signature/seal of a registered or certified professional in engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, land surveying, or erosion and sedimentational control, or a county surveyor, and shall conform to current guidelines as set forth in the Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance of 1975 as amended.
g.
Activities to comply with site plan. All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan. Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of storm-water runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of development, result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill or removal of vegetation during construction or otherwise result in an alteration of the overall appearance of the development as proposed, can be amended only with the approval of the county. Minor changes, such as the realignment of streets or minor alterations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions are exempted from this requirement.
(3)
Exemptions to site plan requirements. The following activities and developments are exempt from the requirement for detailed site plans:
a.
Single-family detached homes constructed within a subdivision of fewer than five parcels.
b.
Repairs to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
c.
Construction of minor structures, such as sheds or additions to single-family residences.
(4)
Review procedures. The application shall be made to the county planning commission and will be reviewed within 45 days. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, approval with conditions or disapproval) by the county. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the county. Decisions of the county planning commission may be appealed pursuant to subsection 30-166(a).
(5)
Duration of permit validity.
a.
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
b.
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire.
c.
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit may be issued, but is not required by the county planning commission.
(Res. No. 2004-26, § IV, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-165. - Groundwater protection standards.
(a)
For all pollution susceptibility areas, new waste disposal facilities must have synthetic liners and leachate collection systems.
(b)
New agricultural impoundments shall meet the followings requirements:
(1)
For areas of high susceptibility, a liner shall be constructed that is, at a minimum, of compacted clay having a thickness of one foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 × 10 -7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the natural resources conservation service.
(2)
For areas of medium susceptibility, an NRCS approved liner, as described in subsection (b)(1), shall be provided if the site exceeds 15 acre-feet.
(3)
For areas of low susceptibility, a NRCS approved liner, as described in subsection (b)(1), shall be provided if the site exceeds 50 acre-feet.
(c)
No land disposal of hazardous waste shall be permitted within any significant groundwater recharge area.
(d)
For all significant groundwater recharge areas, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, as listed in section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, (excluding underground storage tanks) and in the amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day, shall take place on an impermeable surface having spill and leak protection approved by the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division (EPD), and conforming to local fire prevention code requirements.
(e)
For all significant groundwater recharge areas, new aboveground chemical or petroleum storage tanks having a minimum volume of 660 gallons must have secondary containment for 110 percent of tank volume or 110 percent of the largest tanks in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt, provided they comply with all federal requirements.
(f)
For all pollution susceptibility areas, new wastewater treatment basins shall have an impermeable liner approved by EPD.
(g)
For all pollution susceptibility areas, no new stormwater infiltration basins may be constructed.
(h)
For all pollution susceptibility areas, wastewater spray irrigation systems of land spreading of wastewater sludge shall be practiced in accordance with department of natural resources criteria for slow rate land treatment with amendments and technical publications to site specific information submitted by a registered professional engineer. An application for a new development permit for activities involving wastewater spray irrigation or land spreading of wastewater sludge must be accompanied by proof that the applicant has received a land application system permit from EPD.
(i)
Minimum lot sizes and septic systems. No construction may proceed on a building or mobile home to be served by septic tank unless the county health department first approves the proposed septic tank installations as meeting the requirements of the "Georgia Department of Human Resource for On-Site Sewage Management (hereinafter DHR) Manual", and the following requirements:
(1)
New homes served by a septic tank/drainfield system shall be on lots having a minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-1 or the DHR manual (hereafter DHR Table MT-1). The minimums set forth in Table MT-1 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A—F) of the DHR manual.
a.
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
b.
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area;
c.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(2)
New mobile home parks served by septic tank/drainfield systems shall have lots or spaces having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-2 of the DHR manual (hereafter DHR Table MT-2). The minimums set forth in Table MT-2 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A—F) DHR manual.
a.
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
b.
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area;
c.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table Mt-2 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(Res. No. 2004-26, § V, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-166. - Variances, inspection, enforcement, and miscellaneous.
See chapter 30, article VI, sections 30-343, 30-344, 30-345, and 30-346 for regulations on variances, inspections, enforcement, and miscellaneous provisions.
(Res. No. 2007-18, 4-3-07)
Editor's note— Res. No. 2007-18, adopted April 3, 2007, amended the Code by repealing former § 30-166, and adding a new § 30-166. Former § 30-166 pertained to judicial review, and derived from Res. No. 2004-26, adopted July 6, 2004.
Sec. 30-167. - Amendments.
These regulations may from time to time, be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statues and as new information becomes available.
(Res. No. 2004-26, § VII, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-168. - Definitions.
Aquifer. Any stratum (rock layer) or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Drastic. The standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600/287-035. This methodology is the most widely used technique for evaluating pollution susceptibility.
Groundwater recharge area. Synonymous with "aquifer recharge area." An area of the earth's surface where water infiltrates the ground, thereby replenishing the groundwater supplies within an aquifer.
Pollution susceptibility. The relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections, and other human activities in the recharge area.
Pollution susceptibility map(s). Maps prepared by the state department of natural resources (DNR) that show the relative susceptibility of groundwater to pollution. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the state into areas of high, medium and low groundwater pollution potential.
Significant groundwater recharge areas. Areas mapped by DNR in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition). Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology (chemical nature and form of the rock), soil type an thickness, slope, density of lithologic contacts, geologic structure, presence of "karst" topography (sinkholes, caves and fissures associated with limestone and other carbonate rocks), and potentiometric surfaces. Significant recharge areas in the county are those areas with thicker soils, as determined in the Piedmont and in the Blue Ridge of Georgia, where groundwater is stored in the overlying soils. Field mapping indicates that thick soils found in this area are characterized by a density of two or more geologic contacts per four square miles, (Source: 1976 1:5000,000 Geologic Map of Georgia), and slopes lower than 8%.
(Res. No. 2004-26, § IX, 7-6-04)
Secs. 30-169—30-180. - Reserved.
