ARTICLE V. - STRUCTURE NUMBERING

Sec. 14-186. - Designation of street and road names and numbers.
Streets and roads now being maintained by the board of commissioners and other public agencies within the unincorporated areas of the county shall in the future be named and numbered as now designated on the official map and official index of the board of commissioners as amended by each implementing resolution. Every other street and road within the unincorporated areas of the county shown on the official index shall be referred to as designated on the official index for structure numbering purposes.
(Res. No. 93-40, § 2.1, 12-7-93)
Sec. 14-187. - Designation of structure numbers.
(a)
Structure numbers for dwelling units, places of business, industrial locations and all other structures and uses requiring same shall be assigned by:
(1)
The planning department in conjunction with the United States Postal Service during the implementation stage of the system, and
(2)
The planning department following the implementation phase of the system in each area of the unincorporated area of the county.
(b)
The planning department shall keep a record of all numbers assigned pursuant to this article. Such records may be maintained in data processing storage systems if so desired.
(Res. No. 93-40, §§ 3.1, 3.2, 12-7-93)
Sec. 14-188. - Posting of designated structure numbers.
(a)
The owner, occupant or person in charge of any dwelling unit, structure or use to which a number has been assigned shall be notified in writing by the implementing agency of the number assigned to the same at any time after December 7, 1993.
(b)
Within 60 days after receipt of such written notification the owner, occupant or person in charge of any dwelling unit, structure or use to which a number has been assigned shall cause the same to be posted in either one or two locations depending upon the following conditions:
(1)
If the mailbox is located on the same side of the street and adjacent to the driveway or curb cut, the number shall be affixed to the mailbox in letters four inches in height or larger and of a color contrasting with the color of the mailbox. This section does not preclude an individual from also numbering the front entrance of the structure if so desired.
(2)
If the mailbox is not on the same side of the street and adjacent to the driveway or curb cut the number shall be posted at two locations:
a.
On the mailbox as prescribed by U.S. Postal Service regulations; and
b.
Either on the structure front if visible from the street or on an aboveground sign attached to a post or other object at the driveway or curb cut. The numbers shall be four inches in height or larger and of a color contrasting with the color of the background. This section does not preclude an individual from also numbering the front entrance of his structure if so desired.
(3)
In the case that a building is served by two or more driveways or curb cuts the number shall be assigned and posted to the front entrance or driveway.
(4)
It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or person in charge of the dwelling unit, structure or use, upon affixing the new number, to remove any different number which might be mistaken for or confused with the number assigned to the structure.
(5)
In such cases where the assigned number cannot be posted as required above, the number shall be posted as prescribed by the department of planning after consultation with the owner.
(Res. No. 93-40, § 4.2.5, 12-7-93; Res. No. 2007-7, 2-8-07)
Sec. 14-189. - Types of numbers.
Two types of numbers are used pursuant to this article:
(1)
A primary number is required to be posted once the owner, occupant or person in charge is notified as prescribed in section 14-188.
(2)
Secondary numbers may be used when a number of units, structures and uses coexist on the same parcel of land. Examples of parcels requiring secondary numbers include apartment projects, condominium projects, mobile home parks, office parks, planned unit developments, recreational vehicle parks, recreational areas, shopping centers and other uses where the use of secondary numbers would clarify the location of a unit or used for public safety purposes. To provide secondary numbers, the administering department shall work with the owner, manager or person in charge of the project to determine a logical numbering system under the following guidelines:
a.
Existing numbered units and uses shall retain the present set of addresses with only the primary number being changed if the primary number is not in sequence with the overall system.
b.
Buildings on a single parcel with more than one and less than five units may be given either letter (preferred) or number designations as determined by the planning department or its designated representative.
c.
A single building on a single parcel of land and with five or more units may be given numerical designations such as Suite 5, Apartment 5, etc., if so desired.
d.
Multiple buildings on the same parcel of land may be given secondary numbers consisting of number designations if the buildings are accessed from a main entrance to the project. Generally the number designations should increase in a clockwise direction from the main entrance.
e.
Mobile home parks, recreational vehicle parks and similar uses shall be given number designation for individual lots or sites.
(Res. No. 93-40, § 5.1.2.5, 12-7-93; Res. No. 2000-23, § 1, 9-11-00)
Sec. 14-190. - Implementation in stages.
Because of the large and complex nature of the county and the existing numbering system now in place in some portions of the unincorporated areas of the county, this article shall be implemented in stages covering small sections of the entire area by the adoption of implementation resolutions for each section of the county.
(Res. No. 93-40, § 6.1, 12-7-93)
Sec. 14-191. - Exempt and excluded structures.
(a)
The intent of this section is to exclude from this article those structures that do not present a significant danger to human life if destroyed by fire or other events.
(b)
The following structures shall be excluded from the provisions:
(1)
Agricultural buildings not requiring a separate mailing address, and/or a separate telephone number, such as a barn, poultry house, outbuilding or equipment storage buildings. Buildings used as dwelling units, offices or the nominal work station of an employee shall not be exempt.
(2)
Storage and accessory buildings for the use of the occupant of another building on the property. Buildings used as dwelling units, offices, or the nominal work station of an employee, or requiring a separate mailing address, and/or separate telephone number, shall not be exempt.
(Res. No. 93-40, § 7.2.2, 12-7-93; Res. No. 2000-23, § 1, 9-11-00)
Sec. 14-192. - New structure and lots.
(a)
Structure numbers will be assigned to each new structure of a final subdivision plat, mobile home park plan, planned unit development or other plan requiring the approval of the county planning commission by the planning department once a building permit has been obtained.
(b)
No building, electrical, plumbing or mechanical permit for remodeled or repaired structure will be issued by the building official following the implementation of this article in the affected area of the county until the owner, developer or builder has procured from the planning department, or its designated representative, the official structure number or numbers. Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any principal building erected or repaired, or use requiring such number, shall be withheld until permanent and proper numbers have been displayed in accordance with the standards of this article.
(c)
Any recreational vehicle, motor home, travel trailer, or other non-permanent structure, which is not otherwise required to be permitted through the planning department or the building inspections department, shall require verification from the county health department that all water and sewer requirements have been met prior to any structure number being assigned thereto.
(Res. No. 93-40, § 8.2, 12-7-93; Res. No. 2000-23, 9-11-00)
Sec. 14-193. - Utility company compliance.
(a)
Following the implementation of this article in any area of the county, all utility services regulated by the public service commission or any utility cooperative service organization, shall withhold service from any building until the owner or other requesting party has furnished the utility with a valid structure number.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the county planning department to notify each affected utility service of each implementation area by issuing maps and lists of official numbers assigned each structure or use.
(Res. No. 93-40, § 9.2, 12-7-93)
Sec. 14-194. - Implementations by county departments.
Every department and official under the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners shall not render any nonemergency service until the occupant, owner or requesting individual has provided the department with a valid structure number. Nonemergency service includes any service provided by the board of commissioners except fire, rescue, law enforcement or emergency medical service.
(Res. No. 93-40, § 10.1, 12-7-93)
Sec. 14-195. - Penalties.
Any firm who shall do anything prohibited by this article as the same exists or as it may hereafter be amended or who shall fail to do anything required by this article as the same exists or as it may hereafter be amended shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, amenable to the process of the county magistrate court and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-19. Each and every day that such violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Res. No. 93-40, § 11.1, 12-7-93)
Secs. 14-196—14-210. - Reserved.
