ARTICLE XII. - POSITION CLASSIFICATION PLAN

Sec. 46-231. - Purpose.
The position classification plan provides a systematic arrangement and inventory of all employee positions in the county service. The plan groups the various positions into grade levels with appropriate titles. Position descriptions list the minimum requirements or qualifications needed to perform duties such as education, experience, knowledge, skill and ability. The position classification plan provides a basis for:
(1)
Establishing equal pay for equal work;
(2)
Assigning qualification standards for recruiting;
(3)
Analyzing work distribution, areas of responsibility, lines of authority and other relationships between positions;
(4)
Determining salaries and budget requirements;
(5)
Developing standards of work performance;
(6)
Establishing lines of promotion;
(7)
Determining training needs;
(8)
Providing uniform job terminology to convey the same meaning to all concerned.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-232. - Administration.
The county manager, with the assistance of the director of human resources, is responsible for the administration and maintenance of the position classification plan. Grade levels reflect the level of duties and responsibilities.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-233. - Establishment and abolishment of classes.
Any amendment to the position classification plan such as establishing new grades, abolishing grades, reclassifying grades or pay grade changes for grades requires the recommendation of the approving authority and the approval of the classification committee.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-234. - Establishment and abolishment of positions.
All positions are established and maintained through the annual budget. The board of commissioners, based on adequate justification of need and the availability of funds, may authorize the establishment of new or additional positions.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-235. - Allocation of positions.
(a)
The classification committee shall allocate newly created positions to an existing grade in the position classification plan or to a new grade level depending on the duties and responsibilities of the position.
(b)
Every position shall be placed in a specific grade level before final action can be taken on appointments, transfers, promotions, changes in pay grade status, or payment of salary involving the position.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-236. - Grade titles.
The classification plan position title shall designate the position in all budget documents, payrolls, and other official records, documents, vouchers, and communications.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Sec. 46-237. - Position descriptions.
(a)
The director of human resources shall maintain a master set of all approved position descriptions and amendments to the original plan. The position description shall indicate the date of adoption or the last revision of the description.
(b)
The position description shall state the official title, the characteristic duties and responsibilities that distinguish a given grade from other classes, examples of typical duties, minimum qualification requirements and knowledge, skills, and abilities required to adequately perform in the position in the grade level.
(c)
The position description shall be descriptive and explanatory but not restrictive or all-inclusive.
(d)
Minimum qualifications are statements of education, training, experience, which will be required in all cases as evidence of a person's ability to perform duties properly and therefore are prerequisites to employment.
(Res. No. 2004-16, 5-4-04)
Secs. 46-238—46-250. - Reserved.
