Chapter 16 - FRANCHISES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 16-1—16-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CABLE TELEVISION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— State cable television franchises, O.C.G.A. § 36-76-1 et seq.

Sec. 16-19. - Franchise granted and limitations.
The franchise to be granted by the city pursuant to this article shall grant to the grantee the right, privilege and franchise to erect, construct, operate, and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the streets, alleys, public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated and all such extensions thereto and addition thereto in the city; and poles, wires, cables underground, conduits, manholes, and other television conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation of the CATV system for the interception, sale, transmission, and distribution of television programs and other audiovisual electrical signals and the right to transmit the same to the inhabitants of the city on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth. The city expressly reserves the right to grant a similar use of said streets, alleys, public ways and places to any person at any time during the period of this franchise. It is further the intention of this article to limit the authorized activity of a grantee hereunder solely to the operation of cable television systems within the city.
(Code 1985, § 4-401; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-20. - Duration of franchise grant.
The term of the franchise to be granted by the city pursuant to this article shall be for a period of ten years from and after the grant and acceptance date of the franchise to be awarded, subject to the conditions and restrictions as hereinafter provided, and further provided that the mayor and city council shall have the right to review such franchise periodically at such time as the mayor and city council may from time to time elect to do so and as hereinafter provided. Provided further, this franchise will be extended for an additional five-year period unless the city can show cause why such shall not be done.
(Code 1985, § 4-402; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-21. - Franchise right subject to police powers.
In accepting this franchise, the grantee acknowledges that its rights hereunder are subject to the police power of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public; and it agrees to comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to such power.
(Code 1985, § 4-403; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-22. - Franchise required; duration; exclusivity.
(a)
The city shall grant a franchise for the use of the streets within the city for the construction, operation, and maintenance of a CATV system. No system shall be allowed to occupy or use the streets of the city or be allowed to operate without a CATV franchise.
(b)
The franchise shall be granted for a term of ten years, subject to a five-year extension as stated in section 16-20. Thereafter, after full public hearings, and according to the franchise renewal procedure that follows, the franchise may be renewed for periods of reasonable duration not to exceed ten years as, in the opinion of the city council, will serve the public interest, plus an additional five years extension under the provisions of section 16-20. The franchise to operate a cable television service shall be on a nonexclusive basis.
(Code 1985, § 4-404; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-23. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access cablecasting services means provided by a cable television system on its public, education, or leased channels. Types of cable casting service include:
(1)
Public access channel. A specially-designated noncommercial public access channel available on a first-come nondiscriminatory basis for which the system shall maintain, and have available for public use, at least the minimal equipment and facilities necessary for the production of programming for such a channel.
(2)
Education access channel. A specially designated channel for use by local education authorities.
(3)
Leased access channel. A portion of the system's nonbroadcast bandwidth, including the unused portion of the specially-designated channels for leased access services.
Additional services means any of the following: such video services as the transmission of all leased access channel signals not included in basic subscriber service, as well as the transmission of cablecast video advertising messages and pay television signals.
Cablecasting programming (exclusive of broadcast signals) means carried on a cable television system.
Cable communication system, cable system, CATV orsystem means a system of other conductors and equipment used or to be used to originate or receive television or radio signals directly or indirectly off the air and to transmit them via cable to subscribers for a fixed or variable fee, including the origination, receipt, transmission, and distribution of voices, sound signals, pictures, visual images, digital signals, telemetry, and any other type of closed circuit transmission by means of electrical impulses, whether or not directed to originating signals or receiving signals off the air.
Certificate holder means the person or company awarded a certificate of public convenience and necessity for the operation of a CATV system in the city, the certificate to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of applicable law, including this article.
City means the City of Woodbine, Georgia, and all territory within its existing and future territorial corporate limits. The city officer or employee designated in this article shall mean the person elected to or appointed to such position.
Converter means an electronic device which converts signals to a frequency not susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber and, by an appropriate channel selector, also permits a subscriber to view all signals delivered at designated dial locations.
Franchise shall include this franchise and all rights, power, and privileges thereunder.
Franchise agreement means the agreement between the city and the franchises made pursuant to this article. All provisions of this article, as amended, are part of the franchise agreement.
Franchisee means the entity to whom the CATV franchise is awarded and shall include all persons having any rights, powers, privileges, duties, liabilities, or obligations under this franchise agreement, and also all persons having or claiming any title or interest in or to the system, whether by reason of the franchise itself or any subcontract, transfer, assignment, mortgage, pledge, hypothecations, security, agreement, management, or operating agreement, or otherwise arising or created.
Gross subscriber revenues means those revenues derived from the supplying of regular subscriber service within the city, including monthly service charges and fees for regular cable benefits, including the transmission of broadcast signals and access and origination channels if any; it also includes installation fees or reconnect charges, revenues derived from per-program or per-channel charges, leased channel revenues, advertising revenues, or any other income derived from the system.
Origination cablecasting programming (exclusive of broadcast signals) means carried on a cable television system over one or more channels, and subject to the exclusive control of the cable operation.
Pay TV means an arrangement under which a charge is made to a subscriber for receiving a particular television program or series of programs.
Programmer means any person, firm, corporation, or entity who or which produces or otherwise provides program material for transmission by video, audio, digital, or other signals, either live or from recorded tapes, to subscribers, by means of the cable communications system.
Public agency means an agency which is supported wholly, or substantially, by public funds.
Service, basic, and additional basic subscriber service means the total of all of the following:
(1)
The transmission of all broadcast video channel signals provided for herein;
(2)
The transmission of the public and educational access channel signals;
(3)
The transmission of the local origination channel signals;
(4)
The transmission of such other cable cast channel signals as are required by the Federal Communication Commission to match the number of broadcast channel signals being transmitted; and
(5)
The installation and re-connection of subscriber service outlets.
Streets and highways means streets, avenues, highways, boulevards, concourses, driveways, bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways, waterways, docks, bulkheads, wharves, piers, alleys, all other public rights-of-way and public grounds or waters within or belonging to the city.
Subscriber means a person or organization whose premises are physically wired to receive, and/or who is receiving by any manner, any transmission from the system.
Subscriber service drop means such extension wiring from the franchisee's distribution lines to a subscriber's building.
User means a person utilizing a system channel as a producer, for purposes of production of or transmission of material, or as a subscriber, for purposes of receipt of material.
(Code 1985, § 4-405; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-24. - Acceptance of franchise.
(a)
This franchise and the rights, privileges, and authority hereby granted shall take effect and be in force from and after acceptance by the franchisee of a franchise offered by the city, subject to the terms of this article and the rules and regulations of the FCC and/or its successor agency, for a period of ten years, plus a five-year extension under the provisions of section 16-20. The franchisee must, within 30 days after being offered this franchise by the city, unconditionally accept such franchise and agree to comply with and abide by all the provisions of this article, as amended. Such acceptance and agreement shall be in writing, duly executed and sworn to, by or on behalf of the grantee before a notary public or other officer authorized by law to administer oaths. The franchise contract is made a part of this section as though fully set forth herein.
(b)
Should the grantee fail to comply with subsection (a) of this section, it shall acquire no rights, privileges, or authority under this franchise whatever.
(c)
The franchisee shall have the option to request a renewal of its franchise for an additional term of ten years. Should the franchisee desire to exercise this option, it shall notify the city in writing not more than two years and no less than six months prior to expiration of the current term of the franchise. Upon receiving a request to renew the franchise form from the franchisee, the city shall, after notice to the franchisee and all parties concerned, conduct a public hearing on the request. After hearing all the evidence and securing all the information the mayor and council deems necessary, the mayor and council shall make a decision as to whether or not the franchise will be renewed and/or other appropriate action to take; provided, however, the city may appoint in the manner provided for in section 16-54, a CATV advisory board to review the performance of the franchisee and the intent of this article. If appointed, the board will comply with the following procedure for franchise renewal:
(1)
At least 30 days' public notice shall be given of a meeting of the board being held to determine whether the operator has satisfactorily performed his obligations under the franchise. To determine satisfactory performance, the board shall look at the technical developments and performance of the system, programming, other services offered, cost of service, and any other particular requirement set forth in the ordinance, such as the availability of programming equipment and personnel to aid access channel users; also, the board shall consider the franchisee's annual reports made to the city of the FCC; provisions shall be made for community comment, and industry performance on a national basis shall be considered.
(2)
The board will have four months, after being assigned the duty, to determine the franchisee's eligibility for renewal.
(3)
The board shall prepare amendments to determine the franchise ordinance that it believes necessary.
(4)
The board shall submit to the mayor and city council recommendations in regard to renewal of the franchise, changes to the franchise, and amendments to the franchise ordinance.
(5)
If the mayor and city council finds the franchisee's performance satisfactory, a new franchise may be granted pursuant to the ordinance as amended.
(6)
In the event the current franchisee is determined by the city council to have performed unsatisfactorily, new applicants shall be sought and evaluated by the CATV advisory board and a franchise award made by the mayor and city council according to the CATV franchising procedures adopted by the mayor and city council.
(Code 1985, § 4-406; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-25. - Use of existing poles.
The poles used for the franchisee's distribution system shall be those erected and maintained by the Camden Telephone Company and Okefenokee EMC/or Georgia Power Company, or any other public utility, when and where practicable, provided mutually satisfactory rental agreements can be entered into with said companies. Where the use of poles owned by the Camden Telephone Company and Okefenokee EMC/or Georgia Power Company, or any other public utility, is not practicable or mutually satisfactory rental agreements cannot be entered into with said companies following a good-faith effort on the part of the franchisee to obtain such agreements, the franchisee is to erect and maintain its own poles (no pole will exceed 30 feet), as may be necessary for the proper construction and maintenance of the television distribution system. The location and physical characteristics of the poles must be approved by the city public works director and the mayor and city council.
(Code 1985, § 4-407; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-26. - Poles and wires not to interfere with city use of streets.
(a)
The franchisee's transmission and distribution system poles, wires and appurtenances shall be located, erected, and maintained so as not to endanger or interfere with the lives of persons or the use of city streets, or to interfere with existing and/or new improvements the city may deem proper to make, or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct the free use of the streets, alleys, bridges, or other public property by the city and its citizens. The franchisee will, at the request of the city, move and relocate, if necessary, any of the franchisee's installation, including removal of poles to avoid such interference at the franchisee's expense. The city is the sole judge as to what constitutes interference. Approval of all construction sites and routes must be secured from the city public works director and the mayor and city council prior to re-erection of any transmission or distribution facilities. Any change in the location of these facilities shall also be subject to prior approval by the city public works director and the mayor and city council. Construction and maintenance of the transmission and/or distribution system, including house connections, shall be in accordance with the provisions of the National Electric Safety Code, as amended, prepared by the National Bureau of Standards, the National Electric Code of the National Board of Fire Underwriters, as amended, and such applicable ordinances and regulations of the city, affecting electrical installations, which may be presently in effect, or changed by future ordinances.
(b)
The franchisee shall, on the request of any private party holding on appropriate permit issued by the city, temporarily raise or lower its lines to permit the moving of any building or other structure, and the actual expense of the same shall be paid by the requesting party.
(c)
Installation and house drop hardware shall be uniform throughout the city, except that the franchisee shall be free to change its hardware and installation procedure as the state of the art progresses. This provision will not require the franchisee to modify any installation already made unless other changes in the system made by the franchisee cause inferior reception in the areas already installed.
(d)
In those areas where telephone and electric service lines are underground, or where the franchisee is unable to make arrangements for the use of existing utility poles, the franchisee shall place its cables and service lines underground unless approval to place the cable and service lines on poles is secured from the mayor and city council. The franchisee is authorized to place all cables and service lines underground in areas where poles are located.
(Code 1985, § 4-408; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-27. - Repair of damage to city property.
(a)
In the maintenance and operation of its television transmission and distribution system in the streets, alleys, and other public places, and in the course of any new construction or addition to its facilities, the franchisee shall proceed so as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the general public; any opening or obstruction in the streets or other public places made by the franchisee in the course of its operations shall be made only after having obtained prior written permission to do so from the city administrator or his representative, and the proper state and/or federal official if a state and/or federal highway is involved. All such work shall be guarded and protected at all times by the placement of adequate barriers, fences, or boardings, the bounds of which, during periods of dusk and darkness, shall be clearly designated by appropriate warning lights.
(b)
All work in any way necessitated by the business of the franchisee which may involve the opening, breaking up or tearing up of a portion of a street, sidewalk or other part of any city-owned or city-controlled property, shall be done and repaired in a manner approved by the city public works director, and may be done by the city at the expense of the franchisee, if mutually agreed upon by the city and the franchisee or by the city and charged to the franchisee if the franchisee refuses to repair the streets, sidewalks or city property promptly and/or fails to repair such in a satisfactory manner.
(c)
Nothing in this article shall grant to the franchisee any right of property in city-owned property, nor shall the city be compelled to maintain any of its property any longer than, or in any fashion other than, in the city's judgment, its own business or needs may require.
(Code 1985, § 4-409; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-28. - CATV not to interfere with existing reception.
Installations shall be maintained so as not to interfere with TV reception already in existence.
(Code 1985, § 4-410; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-29. - Description of system.
(a)
The system authorized by this article shall be capable of providing at least 20 channels and four designated access channels, and shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the latest technical standards of the FCC. Provided further, if the system has the capacity, additional channels must be provided when existing access channels are in use 80 percent of the time during any consecutive three-hour period of six consecutive weeks.
(b)
The franchisee shall have and maintain a sufficient supply of materials at its location office to ensure proper maintenance and repair within a reasonable period of time.
(c)
The franchisee will maintain an office in the city which will be adequately staffed and be open five days a week (except holidays); unless the city later determines that more days of operation are necessary. The franchisee shall have a 24-hour telephone answering service in the city. The franchisee shall designate one person in the city office who has authority to act for the franchisee in all matters that arise during the operation of the franchise.
(Code 1985, § 4-411; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-30. - Technical standards.
Installation and maintenance of equipment shall be such that standard color signals shall be transmitted to any subscriber receiver. During the terms of this franchise, the franchisee shall furnish to all persons desiring the service offered (subject only to the specifications of this article) and paying for the same, a wire service capable of producing as good a quality of television picture or reception as may be practicable from time to time, and essentially, of the same quality as received at the antenna site. The franchisee shall make all reasonable and practicable betterment of said services as improvements in the carrying of television signals and in the elimination of objectionable radio interferences as the state of the art shall warrant.
(Code 1985, § 4-412; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-31. - Subscriber rates.
(a)
Rates and charges. The rates and charges made to subscribers hereunder shall be fair and reasonable and no higher than necessary to meet all costs of service (assuming efficient and economical management), including a fair return on the original cost, less depreciation, of the properties devoted to the rendering of such service (without regard to any subsequent sale or transfer price or cost of such properties). This standard shall control the city council's decisions dealing with increases and reductions in rates.
(b)
Fee increases. The franchisee may, no more often than once every 12 months, petition the city for an increase in fees, setting forth the proposed fee increase and the reasons therefor. The city shall, upon receipt of such petition, hold a full public hearing before the council on said petition, said hearing to be held not more than 90 days after the petition is filed. At such hearing, all interested parties may present evidence in support of or in opposition to the proposed fee increase. The franchisee shall have the burden of proving the need for any increase in fees. The city shall then have 90 days to either approve or disapprove said petition in whole or in part, and shall give their reasons therefor. The franchisee will furnish all records considered necessary by the city to reach a decision in this matter.
(c)
Rate filing. The franchisee will file a set of rates annually (every 12 months the franchise is in effect) for approval and/or disapproval by the city council.
(d)
Rate limitation. The rates and charges shall be not more than that set forth in the franchise agreement.
(e)
Interruption of service.
(1)
In the event that its service to any subscriber is interrupted for 24 consecutive hours, except for acts of God, accidents, vandalism or sabotage caused by persons not affiliated with the franchise, and except in circumstances for which the prior approval of the interruption is obtained from the city council, grantee (franchisee) shall provide a ten percent rebate of the monthly fees to affected subscriber.
(2)
In the event that its service to any subscriber is interrupted for 48 consecutive hours, except for acts of God, accidents, vandalism, or sabotage caused by persons not affiliated with the franchise, and except in circumstances for which the prior approval of the interruption is obtained from the city council, grantee shall provide a 20 percent rebate of the monthly fees to affected subscriber.
(3)
In the event that its service to any subscriber is interrupted for 72 consecutive hours, except for acts of God, accidents, vandalism or sabotage cause by persons not affiliated with the franchise, and except in circumstances for which the prior approval of the interruption is obtained from the city council, grantee shall provide a 50 percent rebate of the monthly fees to affected subscriber.
(f)
Late charge. The franchisee may, in addition to the rates set out in the franchise agreement, add a late charge of five percent per month on any fee that is not paid within 15 days of receipt of bill.
(g)
Payment in advance. A franchise may require subscribers to pay for each month of basic service in advance at the beginning of each month. No other advance payment or deposit of any kind shall be required by the franchisee for basic subscriber service. No deposit or advance payment of any kind shall be charged for the provision of any converter without prior approval of the city. Nothing in this provision shall be construed to prohibit charges or waiver of charges for initial installation or reconnection. If deposits are authorized, the deposit plus seven percent will be returned to the user at the end of the rental period, less any damage to the rented property other than fair wear and tear or any act of God.
(h)
Disconnection and installment. There shall be no charge for disconnection of any installation or outlet. If any subscriber fails to pay a properly due monthly subscriber fee, or any other properly due fee or charge, the franchisee may disconnect the subscriber's service outlet; provided, however, that such disconnection shall not be effected until 30 days after the due date of said delinquent fee or charge and shall include ten days written notice of the intent to disconnect delivered to the subscriber in question. If a subscriber pays 30 days after payment is due and after notice of disconnection has been given, a franchisee shall not disconnect. After disconnection, upon payment in full of the delinquent fee or charge, the payment of reconnection charge, a franchisee shall promptly reinstate a subscriber's cable service.
(Code 1985, § 4-413; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-32. - Commencement of construction.
The franchisee agrees upon acceptance of this franchise to complete the cable TV system within the corporate limits of the city, as they exist on January 1, 1981, in accordance with the construction schedule filed with and accepted by the city council. The construction schedule is made a part of this article by this reference thereto. The franchisee agrees to extend service to any annexed area which does not contain at least 50 potential subscribers per mile of equipment necessary to serve the area unless state or federal law requires such. If service is not provided to an area due to population scarcity, and it later achieved the necessary population density, then the franchisee shall extend service to that area within one year of the determination of the required density. In the event of the failure of the franchisee to commence construction of the system within 150 days after the acceptance of this article, or in the event of the failure of the franchisee to render significant community cable television service (in this case, the term "significant community cable television service" means 20 percent of the franchise geographic area is receiving cable television service on a regular basis) to the city and the inhabitants thereof, as contemplated and provided for by this article, within a period of six months from the effective date of acceptance of this franchise, the city council may on 90 days' notice to the franchisee, declare this article and the right and franchise granted thereunder forfeited, or require the company to reduce monthly subscriber fees to an amount deemed appropriate by the city, and/or require the franchisee to forfeit the performance bond required by section 16-37. Failure to comply with these terms by reason or circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the franchisee and which circumstances could not be anticipated at the time of the acceptance of its terms by the franchisee and which circumstances could not be anticipated at the time of the acceptance of its terms by the franchisee shall not be sufficient grounds for the city to declare forfeiture.
(Code 1985, § 4-414; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-33. - Construction schedule.
The franchisee shall submit a construction schedule upon the filing of its application which shall reflect the franchisee's plans for the construction of the cable television system. The schedule shall include all times required for obtaining the governmental licenses and permits. If construction is delayed through the fault of parties other than the franchisee, including, but not limited to, the failure of any governmental agency to issue any permit of license within the time projected on the construction schedule, then the remainder of the schedule may be modified, with the city's consent, to reflect this delay.
(Code 1985, § 4-415; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-34. - Sale or transfer of franchise.
In the event the franchisee fails to renew its option at the termination of the franchise period, or in the event that the franchise is forfeited due to the failure of the franchisee to fully comply with all terms and conditions of this agreement, or upon transfer or assignment of the franchise, the distribution system of the franchisee shall be placed up for sale at fair market value and the city shall have the first option of refusal on the purchase of the system. The fair market value shall be determined by the city in accordance with generally accepted appraisal and accounting principles. Under no circumstances shall any valuation be made for good will or any right or privilege granted by this franchise. Should a dispute arise, such shall be settled by arbitration under state law.
(Code 1985, § 4-416; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-35. - Insurance.
The franchisee shall indemnify, protect and save harmless the city, at all times during the franchise period and any renewal thereof as a result of the grant of this franchise and from and against losses and physical damages to property, and bodily injury or death to persons, including payments made under any workmens' compensation law, which may arise out of or be caused by the erection, maintenance, presence, use or removal of said attachments on poles within the city, or by any act of the franchisee, its agents or employees arising out of the operations of the franchisee. The franchisee shall carry insurance with a company authorized to do business in the state, to protect the parties hereto from and against all claims, demands, actions, judgments, costs, expenses, and liabilities which may arise or result, directly or indirectly, from or by reason of such loss, injury or damage. The amounts of such general liability insurance against liability due to physical damage to property shall not be less than $50,000.00 per occurrence for property damage and $100,000.00 per aggregate for property damage, and not less than $300,000.00 per person for personal injury to or the death of one person and not less than $500,000.00 per occurrence. The company shall also carry such insurance on its vehicles in an amount not less than $100,000.00 for each person and $300,000.00 per occurrence. Workers' compensation shall be maintained as required by the laws of the state. All insurance required by this agreement shall be and remain in full force and effect for the entire life of this agreement. Said policy of insurance or a certified copy or thereof shall be approved by the city attorney and then deposited with and kept on file by the city clerk. Each policy of insurance shall state therein that the city will be indemnified and saved harmless from and against all losses, damages, actions, court costs, and attorney's fees arising out of action by the franchisee, its officials, employees, agents and contractors in constructing, repairing or maintenance of the TV cable system, and in the operation of the franchise (inside or outside city limits). A certificate showing that such coverage has been obtained and is currently in force and effect shall be filed with the city clerk prior to the commencement of construction by the franchisee and within 30 days of the anniversary date of the policy in each and every year as long as this franchise and any extension thereof is in force. The certificate will state that the insurance carrier will give the city 60 days advance notice of termination of any policy furnished hereunder. Further, franchisee will save harmless and defend the city against copyright and patent infringement matters which arise out of the construction, repair, maintenance, and operation of this franchise.
(Code 1985, § 4-417; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-36. - Use of poles by city.
The company hereby grants to the city, free of any expense, joint use of any and all poles owned by the franchisee for any legal municipal purpose insofar as it may be done without interfering with the free use and enjoyment of the franchisee's own wires and fixtures, and the city shall hold the franchisee harmless from any and all actions, causes of action, or damage directly or indirectly caused by the placing of the city's wires or appurtenances upon the poles of the franchisee. Proper regard shall be given to all existing safety rules governing construction and maintenance in effect at the time of construction.
(1)
Complaints. As a condition precedent for the granting of the franchise, both the city and the franchisee shall have adopted a written procedure for resolving complaints involving cable television operations. A copy of said procedure shall be filed with the city administrator. The franchisee shall maintain a business office or agent within the franchise area for the purpose of investigating and resolving all complaints regarding the quality of service, equipment malfunction and similar matters concerning the operation of the cable television system. A record will be made of all complaints received showing the name of the complaining party, the complaint, and the action taken to rectify the complaint. The resolutions of these complaints shall be fair and equitable and shall be subject to review by the city. The office of the city administrator shall have responsibility for administration of this section, and all complaints which cannot be resolved between the user and the franchisee shall be directed to that office for decision. In the event the city administrator determines that the complaints are in such magnitude that such is causing an undue cost to the city, the city administrator shall inform the franchisee, and the franchisee will be charged a reasonable rate for each complaint handled. These complaint procedures shall be made known in writing to all subscribers upon subscription to the system. The city administrator and/or his representative shall have the right to inspect the records and other facilities of the franchisee in order to determine all facts involved in complaints which are brought to his attention. All records shall be kept for five years.
(2)
Disputes. Should any dispute arise under the provisions of this article, the matter shall be referred by the franchisee in writing to the city administrator. The city administrator will make a decision on the disputes within 30 days from the receipt thereof. The decision of the city administrator is final unless such decision is appealed to the city council of the city within 15 days from the date of receipt thereof. The city council will hold a hearing on the appeal within 30 days after receipt thereof. The franchisee may appear before the city council and present evidence on its behalf. Each party may cross-examine all witnesses testifying at the hearing. The city council will make a decision on the appeal within 30 days of the hearing. The decision of the city council is final unless such is appealed to the superior court of the county. The franchisee will continue operation during the appeals and court hearing.
(Code 1985, § 4-418; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-37. - Application fee and bond.
An application fee of $100.00, nonrefundable, shall be provided by the franchisee before consideration of a proposal. At the time this franchise becomes effective, the franchisee shall furnish a bond to the city in the amount of $100,000.00, in such form with such sureties as shall be acceptable to the city, guaranteeing the faithful performance of all obligations of the franchisee under the terms of this franchise (except such sums as are covered by the insurance provided in section 16-35), and further, the franchisee will furnish a payment bond to the city in the amount of $10,000.00, guaranteeing the payment of all sums which may become due from the franchisee to the city during the first full year of operation. At the discretion of the council, such payment bond will not be required after the first full year of operation. The city council may reinstate requirement for a payment bond at any time they deem it to be necessary. All bonds must be furnished before the franchising contract is signed, and must be approved by the city attorney.
(Code 1985, § 4-420; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-38. - Free service to public buildings.
In consideration of the granting of franchise to the franchisee as aforesaid, the franchisee will furnish, without installation charge or monthly service fee, a single outlet to all public, private and parochial elementary, high schools and secondary schools as well as public buildings and facilities of the city. Major trunk and distribution cables will be routed near these installations, where possible, or where the cable system is in the area, feeder lines will be extended, where required, to a service point outside the school or public buildings. All attachments and outlets to schools and municipal buildings and facilities shall be at the expense of the franchisee, but distribution of the system within these buildings shall be at the expense of the schools or responsible public agencies. It is further understood that service to schools and public building and facilities will be supplied in a logical extension of the system into each area rather than construction specifically serving a school, public building, or similar facility because of the cost and extended time required to build a complete system.
(Code 1985, § 4-421; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-39. - Franchise fee.
In further consideration of the granting of this franchise to the franchisee, the franchisee shall pay to the city annually, no later than February 20, an amount equal to three percent of gross of all cable subscriber revenues, including, but not limited to, subscriber revenues, advertising, pay cable, and leased channel revenues of the franchisee derived from cable television operations within the city limits during the previous 12 months. Provided further, if the percentage rate is increased by the FCC or its successor, then the fee authorized hereunder may be amended by the city council to the highest fee authorized by the FCC or its successor to regulatory matters, effective as of the date such higher fee is approved by such regulatory agency. In the event the city council shall have the right to inspect the records of the franchisee at any reasonable time for the purpose of ascertaining accurately what the actual gross receipts of the franchisee may have been for cable television service for the past month, months, year and/or for the present year. The city administrator will approve forms on which this report will be made. Such forms are hereby made part of this article. The franchisee will be subject to the same deficiency determination, interest and penalties set forth in the excise tax on alcoholic beverages (section 4-73) for failure to file the required form and pay the fee, or for not paying or for underpayment of the fee due.
(Code 1985, § 4-422; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-40. - Annual report.
All installations by the franchisee shall be made in good, substantial, and safe condition and shall be maintained in such condition at all times. The franchisee shall, during each year of this agreement, have prepared by an engineer or an engineering firm qualified in cable communications and approved by the city, an annual performance report which shall be sufficient to ascertain the franchisee's compliance with FCC technical standards and the quality of the franchisee's overall performance. Such report shall summarize all subscribers' complaints and their resolutions, and said report shall be submitted to the city council on or before June 1 of each year. In the event that such report indicates that the franchisee is not providing a quality service consistent with FCC rules or that subscriber complaints are so numerous or unresolved as to indicate a poor quality service, the city council may, upon 90 days written notice to the franchisee, declare this article and the rights and franchise granted thereunder forfeited.
(Code 1985, § 4-423; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-41. - Annual audit.
The franchisee shall, during each year of this agreement, have prepared, by a certified public accountant, an annual financial audit which shall be sufficient to ascertain the financial condition of the franchisee. Such audit report shall be submitted to the city council within 90 days after the end of the franchisee's fiscal year.
(Code 1985, § 4-424; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-42. - Compliance with state, federal, and local regulations.
The franchisee shall, at all times, be in full compliance with all FCC regulations, as amended, pertaining to cable television systems. The franchisee shall furthermore, at all times, be in full compliance with all existing federal, state, and local laws, ordinances and statutes as are applicable to the operation of a cable television system. No part of this article shall be construed as a waiver of any local, state or federal law, or as a limit of liability.
(Code 1985, § 4-425; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-43. - Certificate of compliance.
The franchisee shall file with the FCC an application for a certificate of compliance and/or any and all reports required by said agency and its successors.
(Code 1985, § 4-426; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-44. - Compliance with FCC regulations.
(a)
To the extent required by the present rules of the FCC or any other rules or regulations or amendments thereto and until such time as that rule is changed or specific relief therefrom is granted by the FCC, the franchisee shall provide services, system performance, channel capacity, one- or two-way communications, operational policies, etc., in strict conformance of said rules.
(b)
In any case, where the proposal shall provide for, or promise services, system performance, etc., which exceed the minimum requirements of the FCC, the proposal of the applicant shall be binding and shall be made a part hereof. Under no circumstances, however, shall the proposal of the franchisee contain provision for services, performance, operation, etc., which are prohibited by the rules of the FCC.
(c)
Section 76.31 of the rules of the FCC, and any amendments thereto, set out certain requirements and provisions that must be contained in this agreement in order for the franchisee to obtain a certificate of compliance from the FCC. It is the knowledge and belief of the city and the franchisee that all the present requirements of those rules are contained herein. Any changes in said rules that may be authorized and ordered by the FCC from time to time shall be incorporated into this agreement within the time period stipulated by the FCC.
(Code 1985, § 4-427; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-45. - Enforcement.
Failure to enforce or insist upon compliance with any of the terms of this franchise shall not operate as or constitute a general waiver or relinquishment of any of such terms or conditions but the same shall be and shall remain at all times in full force and effect.
(Code 1985, § 4-428; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-46. - Subsequent regulation.
The right is hereby reserved in the city, by ordinance, to adopt in addition to the provisions herein contained and in addition to other existing applicable ordinances, such regulations as it shall find necessary in the exercise of its police power. In the event the FCC elects not to regulate cable television or partially or totally abandons regulation of cable television, all of the rules and regulations set forth by the FCC at the time this article was first read shall remain in effect until changed by another regulatory agency, state or federal, and/or changed by action of the mayor and city council.
(Code 1985, § 4-429; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-47. - Standby power.
The cable system operator shall maintain equipment capable of providing standby powering for head end transportation and trunk amplifiers for a minimum of two hours. All utility safety regulations must be followed to prevent a standby generator from powering the dead utility line, with possible injury to an unwitting lineman.
(Code 1985, § 4-430; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-48. - Privacy.
(a)
Use of data from subscriber. A franchisee shall not initiate or use any form, procedure, or device for procuring information or data from cable subscribers' premises by use of the cable system without prior valid written authorization from each subscriber so affected. Valid authorization means written approval from the subscriber for a period of time not to exceed one year, and said authorization shall not have been obtained from the subscriber as a condition of service. Further, it shall be unlawful for a grantee, without such authorization, to activate and/or utilize any Class IV cable television channel in any manner from the subscriber's premises. In any case, the subscriber shall have the right and opportunity to deactivate the return path from his premises.
(b)
Identifying subscribers. The city of a franchisee shall not, without prior valid written authorization from each subscriber so affected, provide any data identifying subscriber's names or address to any other party.
(c)
Procurement of information. It shall be unlawful for any firm, person, group, company, corporation, governmental body, or agency to procure information or data from cable subscribers' premises by use of the cable system without prior written authorization from each subscriber so affected. Valid authorization shall mean written approval from subscriber for a period of time not to exceed one year and shall not have been obtained as a condition of the grantee providing cable service to the subscriber.
(d)
Specific authorization.
(1)
No authorization for procurement or dissemination of subscriber identifiable information or data shall be valid unless:
a.
It specifies the type of information or data covered; and
b.
The parties authorized to collect, receive, store, record, transmit, or otherwise convey this information or data.
(2)
Further, all authorizations shall specify the maximum period of time that any subscriber identifiable information or data shall be preserved in any manner or form.
(Code 1985, § 4-431; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-49. - Tower construction standards.
Any tower constructed for use in the city's cable television system shall comply with the standards contained in Structural Standards for Stell Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures, EIA Standards RS-222-A, as published by the Engineering Department of the Electronic Industries Association, 2001 Eye Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006. Any antenna structure used in the city's cable television system shall comply with Construction Marking, and Lighting of Antenna Structure, 47 CFR 17.1 et seq., September 1967.
(Code 1985, § 4-432; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-50. - Compliance with OSHA regulations.
All working facilities and conditions used during construction, installation, and maintenance of the city's cable television system shall comply with the standards of the occupational safety and health administration.
(Code 1985, § 4-433; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-51. - Establishment of a regulatory entity.
(a)
Continuing regulatory jurisdiction. The city shall have continuing regulatory jurisdiction and supervision over the operation of any franchise granted hereunder and may from time to time adopt such reasonable rules and regulations as they may deem necessary for the conduct of the business contemplated thereunder.
(b)
Authority to establish CATV advisory board. The continuing regulatory jurisdiction of the city shall be exercised by the mayor and city council. The mayor, with the approval of the city council, shall have the authority to establish and appoint a CATV advisory board consisting of five members, who shall serve for three-year terms, with such terms to be staggered. Such board's duration shall be at the pleasure of the mayor and council and should such board be established, it shall advise the mayor and city council of its regulatory jurisdiction and may have the following responsibilities and duties at the direction of the city council:
(c)
CATV advisory board's duties.
(1)
Resolving disputes or disagreements between subscribers and the grantee after an investigation, should the subscriber and the grantee not first be able to resolve their view or disagreements. Said decision or findings may be appealed to the mayor and city council.
(2)
Reviewing and auditing all reports and findings submitted to the city as required hereunder and such other correspondence as my be submitted to the city concerning the operation of the cable television network, and reviewing the rules and regulations set by the franchisee company.
(3)
Assuring that all tariffs, rates, and rules pertinent to the operation of the CATV system in the city are made available for inspection by the public at reasonable hours and upon reasonable requests.
(4)
Reviewing rates and recommending any rate changes to the mayor and city council.
(Code 1985, § 4-434; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-52. - Protection against radiation leakage.
Stray radiation (RF leakage) shall be checked at reception locations for emergency radio services to prove no interference signal combinations are possible. Stray radiation shall be measured adjacent to any proposed aeronautical navigation radio sites to prove no interference to airborne navigational reception in the normal flight patterns.
(Code 1985, § 4-435; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-53. - Re-evaluation.
(a)
Re-evaluation sessions. The city and the franchisee shall hold scheduled re-evaluation sessions within 60 days of the fifth anniversary date of the franchisee's obtaining certification for the system from an FCC. All such re-evaluation sessions shall be open to the public and announced in a newspaper of general circulation at least five days before each session.
(b)
Special re-evaluation sessions. Special re-evaluation sessions may be held at any time during the term of the franchise. All such re-evaluation sessions shall be open to the public and announced in a newspaper of general circulation at least five days before each session.
(c)
Topics to be re-evaluated. The following topics will be discussed at every scheduled re-evaluation session: service rate structures; free or discounted services; application of new technology; system performances; services provided; programming offered; customer complaint; amendments to this article; undergrounding progress; and judicial and FCC rulings.
(d)
Additional topics. Topics, in addition to those listed, may be added if agreed upon by the parties. Members of the general public may add topics either by working through the negotiating parties or by presenting a petition. If such a petition bears the valid signatures of 50 or more residents of the city, the proposed topic shall be added to the list of topics to be discussed at the re-evaluation session.
(e)
Referred to CATV advisory board. The re-evaluation may be referred to the CATV advisory board for its recommendation prior to the hearing for a report in 30 days if the mayor and city council consider it in the interest of the city.
(Code 1985, § 4-436; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-54. - Forfeiture of franchise.
(a)
In addition to all other rights and powers pertaining to the city by virtue of this franchise or otherwise, the city reserves the right to terminate and cancel this franchise and all the rights and privileges of the grantee hereunder, in the event that the grantee:
(1)
Violates any provision of this article, as it may be amended from time to time or any rule, order, or determination of the city or city council made pursuant to this franchise, except where such violation is made without fault, or through excusable neglect.
(2)
Becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debt, or is adjudged as bankrupt.
(3)
Attempts to evade any of the provisions of this article or the franchise, or practices any fraud or deceit upon the city.
(4)
Fails to secure a certificate of compliance from the FCC or any other necessary license or permit within four months of the acceptance of this franchise.
(5)
Fails to exhibit substantial program toward the completion of the construction of the system for a period of three consecutive calendar months.
(6)
Fails to complete instruction schedule approved by the city under this franchise within the time set forth in the construction schedule approved by the city.
(7)
The franchisee leases, subleases, sells or transfers the franchise within written consent of the mayor and city council. A sale of more than ten percent of the stock of the corporation to any entity and/or person, and/or more than ten percent of the working control of the franchisee is considered a transfer under this section.
(b)
Such termination and cancellation shall be by action of the mayor and city council, adopted after 30 days' notice to the grantee and shall in no way affect the city's rights under the franchise agreement or any provision of law. In the event that such termination and such cancellation depend upon a finding of fact as made by the city council and/or its representatives, such findings of fact shall be conclusive on all parties; provided, however, that before this franchise may be terminated and cancelled under this section, the grantee must be provided with an opportunity to be heard before the city council.
(c)
In the event that the city terminates and cancels the franchise with any grantee hereunder, then in that event, the performance bond of grantee is forfeited to the city, irrevocable and without recourse.
(Code 1985, § 4-437; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-55. - Damaging, interfering with property of franchise.
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally and without authority to injure or destroy cables, pipes, conduit, wire, line, posts, lamps or other apparatus belonging to the franchisee or intentionally and without authority to secure television cable service or in any manner to interfere with the operations of the franchisee in providing television cable service to other subscribers on the television cable system owned by the franchisee. Where there is no evidence to the contrary, the person performing any of the illegal acts set forth herein and/or the person, who without knowledge of such violation receives the benefit of such improper action, shall be presumed to be responsible for such acts of tampering or diversion.
(Code 1985, § 4-438; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-56. - Further agreement and waiver by franchisee.
The franchisee agrees to abide by all provisions of this article and the franchise agreement, and further agrees that it will not, at any future time, set up as against the city or city council the claim that the provisions of this article and/or franchise are unreasonable, arbitrary, or void.
(Code 1985, § 4-439; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-57. - Security agreement.
The provisions of section 16-34 shall not apply to the act by the grantee of any franchise under this article of granting a security interest in, or assigning the franchise as collateral security to any lender providing financing to such grantee, provided such financing shall have been approved by the mayor and city council, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Neither the granting of such security interest or assignment to such lender, nor the sale or re-sale of such franchise and the distribution system or either of them by such lender in its liquidation of its collateral, shall entitle the city to have any first option of refusal to purchase, for not less than the balance, less unaccrued interest, owed at the time of such subsequent purchase by the city.
(Code 1985, § 4-442; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Sec. 16-58. - Lender and successors in interest.
Subject to the provisions of section 16-57, the grantee of any franchise granted under the provisions of this article shall be authorized, in his discretion, to grant a security interest in, or assigns as collateral security, the franchise to any lender providing financing to such grantee. No action shall be taken pursuant to this section which shall in any way impair the rights of such lender, or its successor in interest, unless and until the city shall have given written notice of any defaults or violation to such lender or its successor in interest, and allowed a reasonable time, not less than 30 days, for correction of such default violation unless and until such lender, or its successor in interest, shall have had an opportunity for a hearing before the city council.
(Code 1985, § 4-443; Ord. of 4-6-1981)
Secs. 16-59—16-89. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - GAS WORKS AND GAS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM

Sec. 16-90. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Base year means the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998.
Base year franchise fee factor means the total franchise fees paid during the base year divided by the design day capacity as recorded by the grantee on the last day of the base year.
Design day capacity means the sum of the individual capacity in dekatherms (Dt) attributable to all firm customers located within the city limits, as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
Firm customers means all residential and business customers who purchase gas service that ordinarily are not subject to interruption or curtailment.
Fiscal year means the 12 months ending September 30 of each year.
Inflation index means the percentage change in the consumer price index for all urban consumers as published by the bureau of labor statistics, or any successor index, for the period from September 30, 1997, to the beginning of the then-current fiscal year. The percentage shall be reduced by any productivity factor adjustment for the same time period determined by the state public service commission for the grantee.
(Code 1985, § 4-501)
Sec. 16-91. - Franchise granted and limitations.
The right is hereby granted to the grantee, its successors and assigns, to lie, construct, extend, maintain, renew, replace and repair gas pipes, valves, manholes, service boxes, posts, lamps, structures, appliances, and all appurtenances and appendages under, along, through and across any streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other public places in the city, and to use and occupy the said streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places for the purpose of therein lying, constructing, extending, maintaining, renewing, replacing and repairing minds, pipes, valves, manholes, service boxes, posts, lamps, structures, appliances, and all appurtenances and appendages thereto, used and useful for the manufacture, transmission, distribution and sale of gas within and through the present or future territorial limits of the city, such right, when exercised as herein provided, to continue for 40 years after date of approval of this article.
(Code 1985, § 4-502)
Sec. 16-92. - Commencement of construction.
The city reserves the right, upon 90 days written notice to grantee, to cancel this franchise if grantee shall not commence construction of its distribution system for the city within three years from the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(Code 1985, § 4-503)
Sec. 16-93. - Subscriber rates.
Grantee shall be entitled to charge for gas furnished by it at such rates as are prescribed by the public service commission or other lawful regulatory body of the state.
(Code 1985, § 4-504)
Sec. 16-94. - Franchise fee.
The total dollar amount of franchise fees paid by the grantee by the city shall be calculated as follows: The current fiscal year total franchise fee shall equal the product to the design day capacity and the current franchise fee factor. The current franchising fee factor shall be equal to the product of the base year franchise fee factor and one plus the inflation index expressed as a decimal to their significant digits. The following formula quantified this payment:
FFc=FFFby x (CPI-PFA) x DDCc
Where:
FFc=the total franchise fees due the city for the current fiscal year.
FFFby=the total franchise fees due the city for the current fiscal year.
CPI-PFA=the inflation index based on the cumulative change in the Consumer Price Index less the productivity factor adjustment determined by the state public service commission.
DDCc=the design day capacity as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
FFFby=FFby/DDCby
Where:
FFby=the total franchise fees paid in the base year.
DDCby=the design day capacity of the base year.
(Code 1985, § 4-505)
Sec. 16-95. - Responsibility for payment of franchise fee.
(a)
Payment of franchise fee. The grantee, as the holder of the franchise privilege hereunder, is responsible for the payment of all franchise fees payable hereunder, and shall file such reports and returns as required by the franchise chapter, as modified by this amendment. In addition, the grantee is transporting natural gas on the distribution system within the city.
(b)
Franchise fee in lieu of franchise fee payment; license fee, occupational tax; other payment. The franchise fee payments required hereunder shall be in lieu of any franchise fee, license fee, occupational tax, or other payment for use of the rights-of-way by the granter for the provision of gas service, but shall not prohibit imposition of a license fee or any occupation tax on gas marketers.
(c)
Quarterly payments. Effective for fiscal year 1999, and for each fiscal thereafter during the term of the franchises ordinance, the grantee shall remit to the city quarterly franchise fee installments. The installments shall be equal to one quarter of the total annual franchise fee calculated in accordance with this article.
(Code 1985, § 4-506)
Sec. 16-96. - Annual return.
The company shall file a return with its first quarterly installment in each fiscal year showing the details of the calculation for the annual franchise fee.
(Code 1985, § 4-507)
Sec. 16-97. - Delay of inflation adjustment.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this article, any inflation adjustments shall be made to the franchise fee only when the company changes its rates.
(Code 1985, § 4-508)
Sec. 16-98. - Franchise rights subject to police powers.
All rights herein granted and authorized shall be subject to and governed only by this article; provided, however, that the city expressly reserves unto itself all of its police power to adopt general ordinances necessary to protect the safety and welfare of the general public in relation to the rights hereby granted not inconsistent with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1985, § 4-509)
Sec. 16-99. - Damaging, interfering with city property.
Grantee, upon making an opening upon any of the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks and other public places in the city, for the purpose of laying, repairing or maintaining gas mains, shall use due care and caution to prevent injury to persons, and shall replace and restore all public ways to their former condition as nearly as practicable, and within a reasonable time, and shall not unnecessarily obstruct or impede traffic upon the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other public places of said city.
(Code 1985, § 4-510)
Sec. 16-100. - Hold harmless clause.
Grantee shall save and keep harmless the said city from any and all liability by reason of damage or injury to any person whomsoever, on account of negligence of the grantee in the installation, maintenance, and repair of its mains and pipelines along said streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other public places in the city, provided the grantee shall have been notified in writing of any claim against the city on account thereof and shall have been given ample opportunity to defend the same.
(Code 1985, § 4-511)
Sec. 16-101. - Franchise renewal.
Unless 120 days' written notice is given by one party to the other prior to the expiration date of this agreement, this franchise shall be considered as renewed and binding in all its provisions for ten years after such expiration and this franchise shall so continue in operation and effect for further terms of ten years each until such notice be given by either party prior to the expiration of one such renewed term.
(Code 1985, § 4-512)
Sec. 16-102. - Conflicts.
In the event of a conflict between this article and the original franchise dated March 3, 1986, this article shall control. All terms, conditions, and stipulations contained in such franchise ordinance shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that they do not conflict with this article.
(Code 1985, § 4-513)
