ARTICLE VIII. - AUCTIONS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Auctioneers, O.C.G.A. § 43-6-1 et seq.

Sec. 18-282. - License required.
Each person who desires to conduct an auction within the city shall be required to obtain a license therefor from the city clerk in the manner specified in this article.
(Code 1985, § 9-211(1))
Sec. 18-283. - Fee established.
The business license fee for each auction licensed under this section shall be $50.00.
(Code 1985, § 9-211(2))
Sec. 18-284. - Application.
(a)
Application for a license under this article shall be made as provided in article II of this chapter, except that such application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
A statement setting forth when, where, and for how long the auction sale will be conducted;
(2)
A certified copy of the state auctioneer's license of the person who is to conduct the auction; and
(3)
A full and true inventory of all the articles to be sold at the auction sale, together with an affidavit that all information contained in the application is true and that the inventory contains a true listing of all the articles to be sold at said auction.
(b)
No auction shall be held except as set forth in the application and affidavit. No other articles shall be sold except those included in the sworn inventory unless a new affidavit shall be filed listing additional goods to be sold. No other person shall be allowed to conduct the auction sale except such person listed in the affidavit unless a new affidavit is filed, setting forth such other person who may be the auctioneer and employed to conduct such auction.
(Code 1985, § 9-211(3))
Sec. 18-285. - Bond.
Every applicant for a license under this article shall file with the city clerk a surety bond running to the city in the amount of $5,000.00 with surety acceptable to and approved by the city clerk, conditioned that the said applicant, if issued a license hereunder, will comply fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state regulating and concerning auctions and auctioneers, will render true and strict accounts of all his sales to any person employing him to make the same, will not practice any fraud or deceit upon bidders or purchasers of property from him at any auction sale or suffer or permit any person in his employ to practice any such fraud, deceit, negligence, or other wrongful act on the part of the licensee, his agent, or employees in the conduct of any auction or in the exercise of the calling of the auctioneer. A liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state, which conforms to the above requirements, may be permitted by the city administrator, in his discretion, in lieu of a bond.
(Code 1985, § 9-211(4))
Sec. 18-286. - Cappers, boosters, or by-bidders.
It shall be unlawful for any person to act or to employ another in any auction sale as a by-bidder or what is sometimes known as a capper or booster, or to make or to accept any false or misleading bid, or to pretend to buy or sell any article sold or offered for sale at such auction.
(Code 1985, § 9-211(5))
Sec. 18-287. - Exemptions.
Nothing in this section shall be held to apply to auction sales conducted by trustees or referees in bankruptcy, executors, administrators, receivers, or other public officers acting under judicial process, nor to the sale of real property at auction.
(Code 1985, § 9-211(6))
Secs. 18-288—18-307. - Reserved.
