Chapter 26 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Parks authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Riverwalk.
The city, in connection with the ISTEA Project, recently completed the paving of the walkway and construction of the riverwalk. The city council wishes to make the said walkway from West 4th Street to the new riverwalk a no skateboard zone so that the said walkway and riverwalk will be for the use and enjoyment of the citizens of the city and visitors to the city.
(1)
The walkway and riverwalk is declared to be a no skateboard zone with same to be clearly marked as such by signs to be posted by the city.
(2)
No bicycles, skateboards, rollerblades or any other non-handicap-type vehicle shall be allowed on the riverwalk at any time.
(3)
Anyone found guilty of violating this chapter may be fined up to $500.00 or dealt with by proper authorities if the violator is a minor.
(Code 1985, § 12-103)
Secs. 26-2—26-21. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC CONDUCT IN PARKS

Sec. 26-22. - Use of grounds and facilities in general.
Each person, firm, or corporation using the public parks and grounds shall clean up all debris, extinguish all fires when such fires are permitted, and leave the premises in good order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
(Code 1985, § 12-102(1))
Sec. 26-23. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation using such parks, grounds, or facilities to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
(1)
Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any foundation, pond, lake, stream, bay, or other body of water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of said waters;
(2)
Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree or plant or any part thereof;
(3)
Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot, or throw missiles at any animal, reptile, or bird; or remove or have in his possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs, nest, or young of any other animal;
(4)
Bring in or dump, deposit, or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed in the proper receptacles so provided, or all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for the presence of same, and properly disposed of elsewhere;
(5)
Disturb the peace, or use any profane or obscene language;
(6)
Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act;
(7)
Engage in fighting;
(8)
Carry, possess, or drink any alcoholic beverage in the park;
(9)
Violate any rule for the use of the park, made or approved by the park and recreation board;
(10)
Prevent any person from using any park or any of its facilities, or interfere with such use in compliance with this article and with the rules applicable to such use;
(11)
Swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefor, and in compliance with such regulations as are herein set forth or may be hereafter adopted; or
(12)
Dress or undress on any beach, or in any vehicle, toilet, or other place, except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for that purpose.
(Code 1985, § 12-102(2))
Sec. 26-24. - Hours of operation.
(a)
The public parks shall be open daily to the public during the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., and it shall be unlawful for any persons, other than city personnel conducting city business therein, to occupy or be present in such parks during any other hours.
(b)
Any section or part of a park, or an entire park, may be declared closed to the public by the director of public works at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at regular or stated intervals.
(Code 1985, § 12-102(3))
Sec. 26-25. - Group activity.
Whenever more than ten members of any group, association, or organization desire to use any park facilities for a particular purpose, such as picnics, parties, or theatrical or other entertainment performances, a representative of such group, association, or organization shall first obtain a permit from the city administrator or city staff for such purpose. The city administrator or city staff shall grant the application for a permit if it appears that the group, association, or organization will not interfere with the general use of the park by individual members of the public, and if the said group, association, or organization meets all other reasonable conditions which may be imposed by the city administrator or city staff. Such application may contain a requirement for an indemnity bond to protect the city from any liability of any kind or character and to protect city property from damage.
(Code 1985, § 12-102(4))
Sec. 26-26. - Picnic areas and use.
No person in a park shall use any portion of the picnic areas or of any of the buildings or structures therein, for the purpose of holding picnics to the exclusion of other persons, nor shall any person use such areas and facilities for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded.
(Code 1985, § 12-102(5))
Sec. 26-27. - Other regulations.
(a)
Games. It shall be unlawful for any person to take part in or abet the playing of any games involving throwing or otherwise propelling objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins, or model airplanes except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing of rough or potentially dangerous games such as football, baseball, and soccer is prohibited except on the fields, courts, or areas provided therefor.
(b)
Camping. It shall be unlawful for any person to set up tents, shacks, or any other temporary shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave in a park after closing hours any movable structure or special vehicle to be used, for such purpose, such as a house-trailer, camp-trailer, camp-wagon, or the like.
(c)
Fires. It shall be unlawful for any person to build, or attempt to build, a fire except in such areas and under such regulations as may be designated by the director of public works. No person shall drop, throw, or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes, or cigars, tobacco paper, or other flammable material within any park area or on any highway, road, or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
(d)
Animals. It shall be unlawful to bring any dangerous animal into any park, and it shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be in any park unless such dog is on a leash, or otherwise completely under the control of the owner.
(e)
Automobiles. It shall be unlawful to park any automobile except on a street, driveway, or parking lot in any park or to park or leave any such vehicle in any place other than one established for public parking.
(f)
Sales. It shall be unlawful for any person to vend, sell, peddle, or offer for sale any commodity or article within any park.
(g)
Alcoholic beverages. It shall be unlawful for any person within any park to have in his possession, custody, or control any alcoholic beverage of any kind whatsoever.
(h)
Signs. It shall be unlawful for anyone to paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement, or inscription whatsoever, nor shall any person erect, or cause to be erected, any sign whatsoever on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent to a park, except that these provisions shall not apply to any properly authorized government official in pursuit of any official duty.
(Code 1985, § 12-102(6))
