Chapter 12 - ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Conservation and natural resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Short title and purpose.
This chapter shall be known as the "Wellhead Protection Ordinance." The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provision of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply for the city by the establishment of wellhead protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are the supply sources for the city water system and by the designation and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones.
(1)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Hazardous waste or material means any waste or material which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
a.
Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illnesses; or
b.
Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover thereon.
Wellhead means the upper terminal of a well, including adaptors, ports, seals, valves, and other attachments.
(2)
Establishment of wellhead protection zone. There is hereby established a use district to be known as a wellhead protection zone, identified and described as all the area within a circle, the center of which is the center of any city water supply wellhead and the radius of which is 500 feet.
(3)
Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted within wellhead protection zones:
a.
Any use permitted within existing agricultural or single-family districts, except that the minimum residential lot size for a lot, any portion of which lies within the wellhead protection zone, shall not be less than provided by the current subdivision regulations for the city.
b.
Any other open land use where any building located on the property is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
(4)
Prohibited uses. The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within wellhead protection zones, whether or not such use or condition may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under subsection (3) of this section:
a.
Surface use or storage of hazardous material, expressly including commercial use of agricultural pesticides.
b.
Septic tanks or drain fields appurtenant thereto.
c.
Impervious surfaces other than roofs of buildings, streets, driveways, and walks serving buildings permitted under subsection (3) of this section.
d.
Sanitary landfills.
e.
Hazardous waste disposal sites.
f.
Stormwater infiltration basins.
g.
Underground storage tanks.
h.
Sanitary sewer lines within 150 feet of a wellhead.
(5)
Administration. The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection zone established under this article, including, without limitation, those applicable to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement, and penalties, shall be the same as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the city, as the same is presently enacted or may from time to time be amended.
(Code 1985, § 7-114; Ord. of 10-2-1995)
Secs. 12-2—12-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AIR QUALITY CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— The Georgia Air Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-21. - Emissions of gases, vapors, and odors.
(a)
No person shall cause, suffer, or allow any emissions of gases, vapors, or odors beyond the property line from which such emissions originate to be in sufficient quantities and of such characteristics and duration as is or is likely to be injurious to the public welfare; to the health of human, plant, or animal life; or to property; or which interfere with the enjoyment of life and property.
(b)
Detectable odors emitted from the following sources of emission are hereby declared to be objectionable:
(1)
Ammonia, bleaching powder, or chlorine manufacture;
(2)
Asphalt manufacture or refining;
(3)
Blood processing;
(4)
Bag cleaning;
(5)
Celluloid manufacture;
(6)
Coal tar products manufacture;
(7)
Compost heaps;
(8)
Crematory;
(9)
Creosote treatment or manufacture;
(10)
Disinfectants manufacture;
(11)
Distillation of bone, coal or wood;
(12)
Dyestuff manufacture;
(13)
Fat rendering;
(14)
Fertilizer manufacture and bone grinding;
(15)
Glue or gelatin manufacture;
(16)
Incinerator or reduction of garbage, dead animals, offal, or refuse;
(17)
Oiled rubber or leather goods manufacture;
(18)
Paint, oil, shellac, turpentine, or varnish manufacture;
(19)
Paper and pulp manufacture;
(20)
Rubber or gutta-percha manufacture;
(21)
Sauerkraut manufacture;
(22)
Shoe-blackening manufacture;
(23)
Soap manufacture;
(24)
Stockyards;
(25)
Sulphuric, nitric, or hydrochloric acid manufacture;
(26)
Tanning, curing, or storage of hides or skins;
(27)
Tar distillation or manufacture;
(28)
Tar roofing or waterproofing manufacture; and/or
(29)
Any other air contaminant discharged into open air of a character and in a quantity which is detrimental to or endangers the public health.
(Code 1985, § 6-201)
Sec. 12-22. - Open burning.
(a)
In general. Open burning shall be allowed as provided in subsection (b) of this section in accordance with EPD rules and regulations. Fires started in violation of this section shall be promptly extinguished by the person responsible for the same upon notice by the state forestry department. During the existence of an air pollution alert, as may be declared by the state forestry department, all open burning shall be discontinued and no permits will be issued.
(b)
Open burning permits.
(1)
No open burning will be allowed unless permit is obtained prior to commencing the burn.
(2)
Open burning permits shall be obtained from the state forestry department.
(c)
Enforcement. The enforcement of burn permits will be at the discretion of the state forestry department.
(d)
Penalties.
(1)
Any person who violates a burn permit issued by the state forestry department will be subject to penalties issued by the state forestry department. Upon recommendation by the state forestry department, an individual found to be in violation of a burn permit may be subject to municipal court.
(2)
Persons found to be illegally burning without a burn permit will be subject to penalties by the state forestry department and upon recommendation by state forestry department may be subject to municipal court.
(Code 1985, § 6-202)
Sec. 12-23. - Enforcement.
The provisions of this article shall be enforced by the code enforcement officer.
(Code 1985, § 6-203)
Secs. 12-24—12-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TREES

Sec. 12-50. - Intent and purpose.
The intent of this article is to:
(1)
Recognize trees to be a valuable asset providing a healthier and more beautiful environment in which to live;
(2)
Recognize that trees are economically beneficial in attracting new residents, providing shade and cooling effects as well as preventing noise and pollution;
(3)
Recognize that trees also prevent erosion and assist in flood control;
(4)
Establish standards limiting the removal of, and ensuring the replacement of trees sufficient to safeguard the ecological and aesthetic environment necessary to a healthy, happy community;
(5)
Not be punitive or to cause hardship to any individual, private or public company that uses care and diligence to protect trees within the city;
(6)
Not affect private property of any sort except in the situation of public safety;
(7)
Not affect new development projects in the private sector.
(Code 1985, § 6-601)
Sec. 12-51. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Park trees means trees and all other woody vegetation in public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the public has free access as a park.
Street trees means trees and all other woody vegetation on land lying between property lines on either side of the streets, avenues, or ways within the city.
(Code 1985, § 6-602)
Sec. 12-52. - Creation and establishment of a city tree board.
There is hereby created and established a city tree board, which shall consist of five members, who shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the council. Two of the members will include representation from the county extension office and/or a certified horticulturist or arborist and representation from the city's street department. The remaining members will be property or business owners in the city.
(1)
Term of office. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the mayor shall be three years, except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first board shall be for only one year and the term of two members of the first board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
(2)
Compensation. Members of the board shall serve without compensation.
(3)
Duties and responsibilities.
a.
The city tree board shall serve in an advisory capacity to the mayor and council on matters relating to the implementation of this article and to tree management in the city, including appropriate funding mechanisms.
b.
The city tree board shall use its best efforts to inventory the condition and major-maintenance needs of all street trees in the city, making recommendations to mayor and council. Maintenance recommendations shall be in accordance to species-specific standards issued by the county extension agent, International Society of Arboriculture (ISA), or forestry service. Recommendations shall include, but need not be limited to, structural pruning as necessary to maintain public safety and to sustain the health, safety and natural growth habit of the tree; routine adjustment and timely removal of stakes, ties, tree guards and tree grates; watering sufficient to ensure the establishment and survival of a tree; fertilizing as needed; pest and disease management procedures as needed and in a manner consistent with public health and ecological diversity; and replacement of missing or damaged trees.
c.
The city tree board shall meet every six months or as deemed necessary by the nature of business being conducted by the board.
(4)
Operation. The city tree board shall choose its own officers, develop its own bylaws (to be approved by city council), and keep a journal of its proceedings. All tree board records will be kept on file with the city. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Code 1985, § 6-303(1—4))
Sec. 12-53. - Street tree species to be planted.
The list of recommended trees listed as attachment 1 to the ordinance from which this article is derived constitutes the official street tree recommended species for the city. All street trees must be approved by the city tree board prior to being planted if they are not included on this list.
(Code 1985, § 6-303(5))
Sec. 12-54. - Spacing; distance from curb and sidewalk; distance from street corners and fireplug; utilities.
All planting will be in accordance with department of transportation regulations and follow acceptable spacing guidelines as suggested by the ISA publication standards and county extension service office.
(Code 1985, § 6-303(6))
Sec. 12-55. - Public tree care.
(a)
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
(b)
The city tree board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof which is in unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest. Trees removed on city property must be replaced, if feasible, at proper tree planting times as determined by recommendation of the city tree board. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners. Said property owners must plant according to the list of recommended trees listed as attachment 1 to the ordinance from which this article is derived and have approval from the city tree board prior to planting.
(Code 1985, § 6-303(7))
Sec. 12-56. - Tree topping.
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or their obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this article at the determination of the city tree board. Severely topped trees may be removed to prevent future hazards.
(Code 1985, § 6-303(8))
Sec. 12-57. - Pruning and corner clearance.
(a)
For reasons of public safety, every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not severely obstruct the light from any street lamp, obstruct the view of any street intersection, or obstruct pedestrian's ability to use the city's sidewalks. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, and/or broken or decayedlimbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune or remove any tree or other woody vegetation on private property when it interferes with issues pertaining to public safety.
(b)
Tree limbs that grow near high voltage electrical conductors shall be maintained clear of such conductors by the electric utility company in compliance with any applicable franchise agreements. All utility pruning shall follow current ISA guidelines.
(Code 1985, § 6-303(9))
Sec. 12-58. - Dead or diseased tree removal on private property.
For reasons of public safety, the owner shall cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitutes a potential threat to other trees within the city. The city tree board will notify in writing the owner of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the authority to remove such trees and file a lien against the property for the cost of removal.
(Code 1985, § 6-303(10))
Sec. 12-59. - Removal of stumps.
All stumps of city trees and park trees shall be ground to a minimum depth of eight inches below ground level, and all stump debris removed and replaced with similar-type soil fill.
(Code 1985, § 6-303(11))
Sec. 12-60. - Interference with city tree board.
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the city tree board, or any of its agents, while conducting business in accordance with this article.
(Code 1985, § 6-303(12))
Sec. 12-61. - Review by council.
The city council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and decisions of the city tree board. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of the city tree board to the city council who may hear the matter and make final decision.
(Code 1985, § 6-303(13))
Sec. 12-62. - Trees for memorial purposes.
The city prohibits the establishment of any public memorial on city owned property. Any person/persons wishing to have a memorial on city owned property may do so through the city tree board. A tree may be planted by city staff on city property with a memorial plaque as approved by the city tree board at requestors expense. Existing trees are also available for memorials. Any memorial placed on city property and not approved will be removed by city staff.
(Ord. of 01-06-2020(1))
