ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Authority.
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV, as amended.
(Ord. No. 48, § 1-1, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-2. - Jurisdiction.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern the use of all land and development within the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. No. 48, § 1-2, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-3. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Land Development Ordinance of Lincoln County, Georgia."
(Ord. No. 48, § 1-3, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-4. - Purposes.
The public health, safety, economy, good order, appearance, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the county require the harmonious, orderly and progressive use and development of land within the county. In furtherance of this general intent, the regulation of land use and development by the county is adopted to:
(1)
Lessen congestion in the streets;
(2)
Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
(3)
Promote the health and the general welfare;
(4)
Provide adequate light and air;
(5)
Prevent overcrowding of the land;
(6)
Assure the timely provision of required streets, utilities, other facilities and services to new land development;
(7)
Encourage land development in an orderly, serviceable and equitable manner;
(8)
Protect property against blight and depreciation;
(9)
Encourage the development of an economically stable community so as to help conserve and protect natural, economic, and scenic resources;
(10)
Assure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes;
(11)
Encourage the most appropriate use of land and structures; and
(12)
Assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in and through new land developments.
(Ord. No. 48, § 1-4, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-5. - Required disclosure by government officials, applicants and their attorneys.
The 1986 Georgia Conflict of Interest Act (O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.) requires disclosure of financial interests by all government officials, including county board of commissioners and planning commission members, who will consider a rezoning action. It also requires disclosure of campaign contributions or gifts by the rezoning applicant or his attorney.
(1)
All government officials, including county board of commissioners and planning commission members, are required to disclose in writing any ownership interest they have or any family members have, in real property made the subject of a rezoning request. Additionally, these officials are required to disclose in writing any financial interest of ten percent or more in any business entity which has an ownership interest in the property to be considered.
(2)
An applicant for a rezoning and his attorney must disclose all campaign contributions or gifts aggregating $250.00 or more which were made within two years of the filing of the application for rezoning.
(Ord. No. 48, § 1-5, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-6. - Definitions.
The following, words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Terms not defined in this section shall have the meaning customarily assigned to them.
Accessory building or use means a building or use which is customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or building and which is located on the same lot as said principal use or building.
Agricultural means all agricultural pursuits including field crop farming, forestry, dairying, pasturage, poultry husbandry, plant nursery and the necessary accessory uses.
Agriculture, home means the production, principally for use or consumption of the property owner, of plants, animals, or their products and for sale to others where such sales are incidental, including, but not limited to: gardening, fruit production, and poultry and livestock products for household use only.
Alley means a platted service way providing a secondary means of access to abutting property.
Amendment means any repeal, modification, or addition to these regulations; or any change in the numbers, shape, boundary, or area of a district on the zoning map; or any repeal or abolition of any part thereof, or addition thereto.
Animal husbandry means the keeping, breeding and selling, of any domestic animals other than customary household pets. A minimum lot size of 2.5 acres is required and no on-site sales are permitted.
Appeal means a request for a review of the interpretation of any provisions of this chapter.
Applicant means the owner of land, or his designee, submitting an application for development.
Automobile service stations or centers means buildings and premises where gasoline, oil, grease, batteries, tire and automobile accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail, and where, in addition, the following services may be rendered and sales made, and no other:
(1)
Sale and servicing of spark plug, batteries and distributors and distribution parts;
(2)
Tire servicing and repair, but not recapping or regrooving;
(3)
Replacement of muffler and tailpipes, water hose, fan belts, brake fluid, lightbulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and wiper blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors, and the like;
(4)
Radiator cleaning and flushing;
(5)
Washing and polishing and sale of automotive washing and polishing materials;
(6)
Greasing and lubrication;
(7)
Providing and repairing fuel pumps; oil pumps and lines;
(8)
Emergency wiring repairs;
(9)
Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
(10)
Adjusting and repairing brakes;
(11)
Minor motor adjustments not involving removal of the head or crankcase or racing the motor;
(12)
Sales of cold drinks, package foods, tobacco and similar convenience goods for station customers, as accessory and incidental to principal operation;
(13)
Provision of road maps and other informational material to customers; and
(14)
Provision of restroom facilities.
Uses permissible at a service station do not include major mechanical and body work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition or other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an extent greater than normally found in automobile service stations or centers. An automobile service station or center is not a repair garage or a body shop.
Automobile wrecking means the dismantling, storage, sale or dumping of used motor vehicles, trailers or parts thereof.
Bed and breakfast means an owner-occupied or manager-occupied residential structure providing rooms for temporary, overnight lodging, with or without meals, for paying guests.
Block means a tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways or boundary lines of municipalities or counties.
Bond means any form of security including cash deposit, surety bond, collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the board of commissioners. All bonds shall be approved by the board of commissioners wherever a bond is required by this chapter.
Buffer means a portion of a lot set aside for open space and visual screening between land uses to minimize conflicts between them.
Buildable area means that portion of any lot which may be used or built upon in accordance with the regulations governing the given zoning district within which the particular lot is located, once the various front, side, and rear yard setbacks required for the land use have been subtracted from the total area.
Building means any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals, or movable property of any kind, and includes any structure.
Building area means the total area taken on a horizontal plane at the main grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings, exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces and steps.
Building height means the vertical distance from the established average sidewalk grade, street grade or finished grade at the building lines, whichever is the highest, to the highest point of the building.
Building line means the inner edge of any required yard or required setback, and the corresponding outer edge of the buildable area. Except as specifically provided by this chapter, no portion of any building or structure may be extended to occupy any portion of a lot outside its building lines.
Building, main, means a building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is situated. In any residential district, any dwelling shall be deemed to be a main building on the lot on which it is situated.
Building official means the authorized building inspector for the county.
Building permit means a written permit for construction issued by the office of planning and zoning.
Building setback line means a line delineating the minimum allowable distance between the property line and a building on a lot within which no building or other structure shall be placed except as otherwise provided.
Building setback, front, means the minimum allowable distance between the centerline of an abutting street, or an official future street, and the front of a building or structure on a lot. The front setback distance is applied to the full width of the lot and is parallel to or concentric with the street centerline.
Building setback, rear, means the minimum allowable distance between the rear property line and a building or structure on a lot. The rear setback applies to and extends across the full width of the lot.
Building setback, side, means the minimum allowable distance between the side property line and a building or structure on a lot. The side setback applies to the full depth of a lot.
Building site means the ground area of a building together with all open spaces surrounded by the building.
Care home means a rest home, nursing home, convalescent home, home for the aged or similar use established and operated to provide lodging and meals and/or domiciliary care for aged, infirm, chronically ill or convalescent persons.
Centerline means the line determined as such by the official authority having jurisdiction over the street, otherwise it shall be the succession of midpoints between the identifiable limits of any improvements on the ground or of any easement.
Child care center, commercial, means any place operated by any person or group wherein are received for pay not more than 18 children under 18 years of age for care and supervision less than 24 hours per day.
Child care center, family, means a private residence operated by any person who receives therein for pay for supervision and care fewer than 24 hours a day, without transfer of legal custody, three but not more than six children under 18 years of age who are not related to such persons and whose parents or guardians are not residents in the same private residence.
Clinic means an establishment where medical or dental patients, who are not lodged overnight, are admitted for examination or treatment.
Club, lodge, civic or fraternal organization means buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, or person for a social, educational, religious, or recreational purpose but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
Communications tower means a tower of any size located on a nonresidential site, which supports communication equipment (transmission or receiving) utilized by commercial, government, or other public and quasi-public users. This does not include private home use or satellite dish and television antennas or amateur radio operators as licensed by the Federal Communications Commission, and excluding those used exclusively for dispatch communications.
Condominium means individual ownership of units combined with a joint ownership of common areas and/or facilities of the building and grounds.
Construction plan means the maps and/or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat or plan which shows the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the planning commission as a condition of the approval of the plat or plan.
Convenience establishment:
(1)
Convenience store means a one-story, retail store containing less than 2,000 square feet of gross floor area that is designed and stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, household supplies and other convenience goods on a small-scale basis.
(2)
Convenience gas station means buildings and premises where gasoline and oil may be dispensed at retail. Uses permissible also include the sale of cold drinks, package foods, tobacco and similar convenience goods for station customers.
Customary home occupation means a business, profession, occupation, or trade conducted for gain or support by any occupant of a dwelling and located entirely within a residential building, or a structure accessory thereto, which use is accessory, incidental, and secondary to the use of the building for dwelling purposes and does not change the essential residential character or appearance of such building.
Dedication means the transfer of private property to public ownership and for public use upon written acceptance by the county.
Developer means the owner or his representative of a lot or of any land included in a proposed development. Also, the holder of an option or contract to purchase, or any other person having enforceable proprietary interest in such land.
Director or building official includes the word "designee."
Director of planning and zoning or director is the person named to assist the planning commission in performing its duties.
Driveway means a private roadway providing access for vehicles to one parking space, garage, dwelling or other structure.
Dwelling means any building or portion thereof, which is designed or used exclusively for residential purposes.
Dwelling, multifamily, means a building designed for and used as a residence for three or more families, and consisting of three or more separate dwelling units.
Dwelling, single-family, means a structure, including a site-built, modular or manufactured home (a mobile home is not a single-family dwelling), that contains one dwelling unit designed for residential use exclusively by one family that is surrounded by open space on the same lot. All single-family dwellings shall meet the appearance standards as provided in section 34-522.
Dwelling, two-family, means a building containing not more than two housekeeping units, and designed or used to house not more than two families, living independently of each other.
Dwelling unit means a structure or a portion of any structure designed, arranged and used for living quarters for one or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit with cooking facilities, but not including units in hotels, motels, boardinghouses or like uses.
Easement means a grant by a property owner to the use of land by the public, a corporation, or persons for specific purposes, including but not limited to the construction of utilities, access and drainageways.
Easement, access means an access easement shall serve no more than four lots. The minimum lot size for a lot served solely by an access easement is five acres. An access easement must be a minimum of 50 feet, 30 feet for right-of-way and ten feet on each side for utilities, which shall NOT be included when calculating the road frontage of the parcel providing the access easement. Each parcel served by the access easement shall meet minimum road frontage requirements on the easement.
Engineer means a registered, practicing engineer, licensed by the state, hired by the county to carry out the applicable provisions of this chapter.
Escrow means a deposit of cash with the governing authority or escrow agent to secure the promise to perform some act.
Establishment means any business regulated by this chapter.
Family means one or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit provided that unless all members are related by blood, legal adoption or marriage, shall contain no more than five persons. Further provided that domestic servants employed on the premises may be housed on the premises.
Family, immediate, means one or more persons, or parents, with their direct lineal descendants and legally cared-for or adopted children, living together in the whole or part of a dwelling, comprising a single housekeeping unit.
Flag means a cloth with colors, patterns, etc. used as a signal.
Frontage means that side of a lot abutting on a street or way ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot.
Governing authority means the chair and board of commissioners of the county.
Grade means the slope of a road, street, or other public way, specific in percentage terms from the horizontal.
Gross floor area (GFA) means the total area of a building measured by taking the outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or storage.
Health department means the health department duly authorized to perform health services in the county.
Horizontal curve means a winding, nonstraight section of road where the grade does not necessarily change.
Individual sewage disposal system means a septic tank, seepage tile sewage disposal system or any other sewage treatment device.
Industrialized housing means a factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed for incorporation into a permanent structure at a building site on a permanent foundation to be used for residential purposes; also known as a modular home. A modular home shall be certified by the manufacturer to meet the approval of the state commissioner of community affairs and to meet the same requirements as a site-built home within the county. An industrialized housing unit is a single-family dwelling and its placement in a residential district must meet or exceed the appearance standards as provided in section 34-522.
Junkyard or salvage yard means any lot, land or structure or part thereof, used primarily for the collecting, storage or sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal or other discarded material; and for the collecting, dismantling, storage, or salvage of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof.
Kennel means any place where dogs, cats, or other animals over three months of age are kept, raised, sold, boarded, bred, shown, treated or groomed.
Landscape architect means a registered, practicing landscape architect licensed by the state.
Lot means a parcel of land and includes the word "plot," "land" or "parcel."
Lot, corner, means a lot located at the intersection of two or more streets.
Lot, double frontage, means a lot having frontage on two streets as distinguished from a corner lot.
Lot, flag, means a tract or lot of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a street is less than the minimum width required for construction of a building or structure on that lot. No flag lots shall be created within the unincorporated area of the county.
Lot, interior, means a lot other than a corner lot.
Lot, nonconforming, means a lot legally existing at the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived (and not created for the purposes of evading the restrictions of this chapter) that does not meet the minimum area requirements of the district in which the lot is located.
Lot area means the total horizontal ground area inside lot lines, exclusive of any area open to the public.
Lot coverage means the computed ground area occupied by buildings and other impervious surfaces, including but not limited to parked structures, driveways, roads, sidewalks, and areas covered with concrete asphalt, within a lot.
Lot depth means the mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
Lot frontage means the distance for which the front property line and street line coincide.
Lot improvement means any building, structure, place, work of art, or other object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment.
Lot of record means a lot or parcel of land whose existence, location, and dimensions have been recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county.
Lot width means the horizontal distance across the lot measured at right angles to the depth of the lot at the center of the minimum front yard setback lines.
Manufactured home, class A, means a dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying that it is constructed in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home and Standards Act 42, USC 5401—5445 (i.e., Constructed to the HUD Code which became effective on June 15, 1976), and meeting the following development standards:
(1)
The home has a minimum width in excess of 16 feet.
(2)
The pitch of the home's roof has a minimum vertical rise of three feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(3)
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, or aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(4)
A masonry, mortar joint curtain wall (skirting), unpierced except for required ventilation and access, installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level. The wall must have a minimum thickness of four inches, and must be constructed of commonly used standard clay brick or standard concrete block.
(5)
The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and towing apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
(6)
Landings shall be installed prior to occupancy of the requisite composition and size pursuant to the Code being enforced by state law, with provisions being expressly incorporated by reference therein as part of this requirement.
(7)
The manufactured home must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-130 et seq. and 8-2-160 et seq., to include poured concrete footers.
(8)
A class A manufactured home, if constructed outside the boundaries of the county may be brought into the county and used as a dwelling if such home was constructed ten years or less from the date of permit application.
(9)
Manufactured homes may not be used for any other purpose or use other than the residential use originally designed and approved by HUD.
Manufactured home, class B, means a dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying that it is constructed in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home and Standards Act 42, USC 5401—5445 (i.e., constructed to the HUD Code which became effective on June 15, 1976), and meeting the following development standards:
(1)
The pitch of the home's roof has a minimum vertical rise of three feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(2)
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, or aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(3)
A masonry, mortar joint curtain wall (skirting), unpierced except for required ventilation and access, installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level. The wall must have a minimum thickness of four inches, and must be constructed of commonly used standard clay brick or standard concrete block.
(4)
The tongue, axles, transporting lights and towing apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
(5)
Landings shall be installed prior to occupancy of the requisite composition and size pursuant to the Code being enforced by state law, with provisions being expressly incorporated by reference therein as part of this requirement.
(6)
The manufactured home must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-130 et seq. and 8-2-160 et seq., to include poured concrete footers.
(7)
A class B manufactured home, if constructed outside the boundaries of the county may be brought into the county and used as a dwelling if such home was constructed ten years or less from the date of permit application.
(8)
Manufactured homes may not be used for any other purpose or use other than the residential use originally designed and approved by HUD.
Manufactured home, class C, means a dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home and Standards Act 42, USC 5401—5445 (i.e., constructed to the HUD Code which became effective on June 15, 1976), but does not satisfy the criteria necessary to qualify the unit as a class A or B manufactured home and meeting the following development standards:
(1)
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, or aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(2)
A vinyl curtain wall (skirting), unpierced except for required ventilation and access, installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level.
(3)
Landings shall be installed prior to occupancy, and of the requisite composition and size pursuant to the building code being enforced by state law, with the provisions being expressly incorporated by reference therein as part of this requirement.
(4)
The manufactured home must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-130 et seq. and 8-2-160 et seq. Poured concrete footers may not be required.
(5)
The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and towing apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
(6)
Manufactured homes may not be used for any other purpose or use other than the residential use originally designed and approved by HUD.
(7)
A class C manufactured home, if constructed outside the boundaries of the county may be brought into the county and used as a dwelling if such home was constructed ten years or less from the date of permit application. A class C manufactured home may be relocated within the county provided the home was constructed ten years or less from the date of permit application. A class C manufactured home constructed to the HUD Code which became effective on June 15, 1976, more than ten years from the date of permit application, may be located only within an approved manufactured home park.
Manufactured home park means any property on which ten or more manufactured homes are located or intended to be located for purposes of residential or recreational occupancy of a temporary, seasonal, or permanent nature. Manufactured home parks must comply with the specific requirements for such parks as delineated in sections 34-591—34-597.
Manufactured home space means a unit of ground, as prescribed by sections 34-591—34-597, which shall be clearly indicated by corner markers, on which may be placed a manufactured home.
Modular home: See industrialized housing.
Must is mandatory.
Neighborhood shopping centers consist entirely or primarily of convenient goods outlets with a supermarket as anchoring tenant. Neighborhood shopping centers generally do not have enclosed air conditioned malls, elaborate landscaping or similar amenities typical of larger shopping centers.
Nonconforming use means any building, structure or use of land existing at the time of enactment of this chapter which does not comply with or conform to the provisions of the zoning district in which it is located.
Nursing home means any dwelling in which aged, chronically ill or incurable persons are housed and furnished with meals and nursing care for compensation.
Official zoning map means the map approved by the planning commission and adopted by the county which identifies each zoning district in the county.
Off-site means any premises not located within the area of the property to be subdivided whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for subdivision approval.
Off-street loading space means the area required to load or unload goods or other materials plus the necessary driveways and maneuvering areas.
Off-street parking space means the area required to park one automobile plus the necessary driveways and maneuvering areas.
Open space means a parcel of land or an area of water or a combination of both land and water within the designated development, designed and intended for the use and enjoyment of residents of the development or for the general public, not including streets or off-street parking areas. Open space shall be substantially free of structures, but may contain such improvements as are in the plans as finally approved and are appropriate for the benefit of residents of the development.
Owner means any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under the regulations.
Parcel means a general term including all plots of land shown with separate identification on the official tax appraisal maps. Parcels may or may not be buildable lots, depending upon whether or not such parcels are created in accordance with the regulations set forth in this chapter.
Parking space. See off-street parking space.
Paved-way width means the shortest distance as measured from curb face to curb face or, if without curbing, as measured from edge of pavement to edge of pavement.
Personal care home/assisted living means a building occupied as a permanent primary residence and also occupied by up to six unrelated ambulatory adults who reside there temporarily or longterm and receive services, including room, meals and personal care from the permanent occupants.
Planned unit development (PUD) or planned development district (PDD) means any planned concentration which provides for innovative concepts in large-scale residential, commercial, or industrial development which enables economy in capital expenditures or utilities and streets and in subsequent maintenance.
Plat means the schematic representation of land.
Plat, final, means the plat submitted to the planning commission for final approval and, subsequently, to be recorded with the clerk of superior court of the county.
Plat, preliminary, means the plat or layout of a proposed subdivision submitted to the planning commission for approval prior to submission of the final plat.
Principal building means a building in which the principal use of the lot or tract of land is conducted.
Principal use means the primary use of land or structures as distinguished from a special use or accessory use.
Public improvement means any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other facility for which the county may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which the county responsibility is established.
Public road means any road that has a dedicated right-of-way and services the general public, but is not owned or regularly maintained by the county.
Public sewerage means a sanitary sewerage system for the collection of water borne wastes complete with a sewage treatment plant or stabilization pond. The entire system must be either operated by the county or have been approved by the county, in the case of a privatelyowned system.
Public utilities means water, gas, sanitary and storm sewer, electrical, and communication lines and facilities, and natural or improved drainage facilities.
Recreational vehicle. See travel trailer.
Right-of-way line means a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, storm or sanitary sewer main, shade trees, or for another special use and owned by the county.
Rooming and/or boarding house means a residential structure which provides lodging with or without meals, is available for permanent occupancy only and which makes no provision for cooking in any of the rooms occupied by paying guests.
Screening means either:
(1)
A strip at least ten feet wide, densely planted (or having equivalent natural growth) with shrubs or trees at least four feet high at the time of planting, of a type that will form a yearround dense screen at least six feet high; or
(2)
An opaque wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence at least six feet high.
Service lane means a vehicular passageway providing secondary and/or service access to the sides or rear of building lots.
Should is permissive.
Shoulder means that portion of a street or road from the outer edge of the paved surface or the curb to the inside edge of the ditch, gutter or original ground surface.
Sidewalk means that portion of a street or road available exclusively for pedestrian traffic.
Sketch plat or site plan means a sketch plan or plat which is a generalized map prepared by the developer that shows the development concept. Its purpose is to serve as a basis for discussion before the subdivision process begins without either the director or the developer making commitments.
Special use means a use permitted upon approval by the board of commissioners; a review and recommendation by the planning commission to this chapter covering conditions precedent or subsequent that are not precise enough to all applications without interpretation and such review and exception is provided for by this chapter. A special use permit is not a variance. Rather, it is a land use that can be made compatible with a principal use under certain standards and conditions.
Street means a right-of-way for vehicular traffic whether designated a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, drive, expressway, freeway, boulevard, lane, place, circle, alley, or otherwise. Various types of streets may be defined as follows:
Arterial means a public way which is used primarily for fast and heavy traffic flow; is of considerable continuity; and is used as a traffic artery for intercommunication among large areas.
Collector means principal entrance streets to subdivisions and the main streets for circulation within the county which serve a network of four or more local streets. Collector streets are designed as a link between local streets and arterial streets.
County means a street which is owned or maintained by the county.
Cul-de-sac means a local street with only one outlet, closed and terminated by a vehicular turnaround. It shall not extend more than 1,200 feet in length and shall be provided with a turnaround having a minimum roadway diameter of at least 80 feet, a maximum roadway diameter of 200 feet, and a right-of-way diameter of at least 100 feet.
Local means a street used primarily in residential subdivisions for access to abutting properties as opposed to the collection and dispersion of traffic.
Marginal access means a street which is parallel to or adjacent to an arterial street or highway and which provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
Private means any road or street that is not publicly owned and maintained and used for access by the occupants of the development, their guests, and the general public. Private streets must be constructed to county standards.
Street grade means the elevation of a paved street measured at the street centerline or curb.
Street width means the shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-of-way of a street.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground. Among other things, structure includes buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences, billboards and advertising signs.
Subdivider means any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing or required by law to commence proceedings under these regulations to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself or for another.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots.
Division of land means a subdivision of four or fewer lots, which does not involve the construction of a new public or private street, the construction of a community water system, or a community sewer system. These applications are processed administratively by the director of planning and zoning as final plat applications that do not require preliminary plat approval. Any improvements to an existing public street abutting the tract proposed for division of land, or the installation of utilities along said existing public road, as may be required to comply with this chapter, shall be done according to plans and permit requirements of this chapter, but said requirements shall not subject the division of land to the requirements for a major subdivision as specified in the chapter.
Major subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land into five or more lots which may or may not involve the construction of a new public street; or any subdivision that involves the construction of a new public or private street. If the major subdivision involves construction of a new public or private street or the upgrade of an existing private access way to county standards, construction plans and land disturbance permits are required. Major subdivisions are therefore processed in multiple steps including preliminary plat approval (unless specifically exempted), approval of construction plans and issuance of land disturbance permits, and final plat approval.
Subdivision improvement agreement means a contract entered into by the applicant and the planning commission on behalf of the county by which the applicant promises to complete the required public improvements within the subdivision within a specified time period following final subdivision plat approval.
Subdivision, residential means unified residential development that is developed as a whole in a single development operation or a definitely programmed series of development operations or phases. The essential features are a definable boundary; a consistent, but not necessarily uniform, character, overall control during the development process by a single development entity, construction of new roads; and enforcement of covenants, conditions, and restrictions by a master community association.
Surveyor means a registered, practicing surveyor, licensed by the state or elected by the county.
Tract means a lot. The term tract is used interchangeably with the term lot, particularly in the context of subdivisions, where one "tract" is subdivided into several "lots."
Travel trailer/recreation vehicle means a motorized camper, tent trailer, or other similar vehicular or portable structure used or designed for temporary housing or occupancy while on vacation, recreational or other trip and provided with sleeping accommodations.
Travel trailer park means any plot or tract of land on which two or more travel trailers are located.
Use means the purpose for which land or a building or other structure is designed, arranged or intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
Used or occupied, as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the terms intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied.
Variance means a departure from any provision of the zoning requirements, except use, without changing the zoning ordinance or the underlying zoning of the parcel. A variance shall be granted only upon demonstration of a hardship based on the peculiarity of the property in relation to other properties in the same zoning district, as specified in this chapter.
Vertical curve means a vertical curve is a hilly, nonflat section of road where the grade changes at some constant rate as a function of distance traveled.
_____
Yard means a space on the same lot with a main building, such space being open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from the ground upwards, except where encroachments and accessory buildings are explicitly permitted.
Yard
_____
Yard, front, means an open, unoccupied space on same lot with the main building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the right-of-way line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. Covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall not project into a required front yard. On corner lots, the front yard shall be the open area between the main entrance of the structure and the street.
Yard, rear, means an open space on the same lot with the main building, such space being unoccupied except possibly by an accessory building, and extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building projected to the side lines of the lot. On all corner lots, the rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
Yard, side, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building or use, located between the building or use and the side line of the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
Zoning means the provisions of this chapter that regulate the manner, type, size and use to which a piece of property may be put.
(Ord. No. 48, § 2-2, 1-9-2003; Ord. No. 48-1, § 1, 10-16-2003; Amend. of 9-9-2004; Amend. of 5-11-2006; Amend. of 11-12-2009; Amend. of 12-10-2009)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 34-7. - Conflict with other laws.
Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards than are required by the regulations and provisions of this chapter, the provisions of such other statute, resolution, covenant or ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. No. 48, § 24-2, 1-9-2003)
Secs. 34-8—34-30. - Reserved.
