Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any contract or obligation assumed by the county saved from repeal, § 1-10(3); assistance in administration of building regulations, § 18-3; administration and enforcement of occupation taxes and regulatory fees, § 22-34; courts, ch. 26; administrative mechanisms for land development, § 34-31 et seq.; law enforcement, ch. 38; library, ch. 42; supervision and administration of waste management provisions, § 58-33; taxation, ch. 66; administration and enforcement of transient occupancy tax, § 66-40; utilities, ch. 70; administration and enforcement of water and sewer improvement project provisions, § 70-33.
State Constitution reference— Counties and municipal corporations, Ga. Const. art IX; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I.
State Law reference— County government, O.C.G.A. title 36; emergency interim successors to officials, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-50.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Board of commissioners' responsibilities regarding land development, § 34-32.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-31—2-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PUBLIC MEETINGS; AGENDA

Sec. 2-51. - Meetings to be in accordance with division.
All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. No. 44, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-52. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-01, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-53. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the board. A quorum is a majority of all the members of the board then in office. It is the duty of the chair to enforce this rule. Any commissioner may raise a point of order directed to the chair if he believes that a quorum no longer exists, and if the chair rules that a quorum no longer exists, the meeting cannot continue. If a quorum is not attained within 30 minutes, the meeting will be rescheduled by the chair with the approval of the commissioners present.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-02, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-54. - Voting; majority.
Passage of a motion shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the commissioners present and voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-03, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-55. - Abstentions.
A commissioner shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest which would prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the commissioner shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote. The chair may, on the advice of the county attorney, rule on the matter of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-04, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-56. - Chair.
The chair of the board of commissioners is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the chair must enforce the rules of procedure that have been adopted by the board of commissioners. The chair shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner. The chair may not introduce motions or second a motion except that the chair may introduce or second a motion to go into executive session as authorized by section 2-68 of this division. The chair shall vote to break a tie and may vote on any motion under consideration.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-05, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-57. - Vice-chair.
(a)
The board shall select a vice-chair from the board members at the beginning of every odd-numbered calendar year. The vice-chair shall fulfill the duties of the chair if the chair is not in attendance.
(b)
If the chair and the vice-chair are absent and a quorum is present, the remaining commissioners shall select a commissioner to serve as temporary chair of the meeting until either the chair or vice-chair is present at the meeting.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-06, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-58. - Agenda.
(a)
The chair or clerk shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. The agenda shall be made available to the commissioners at least two business days before each board of commissioners meeting.
(b)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. To be considered, this request must be submitted in writing to the chair and must be received at least three business days before the meeting.
(c)
The order of the agenda may be changed by the chair at the beginning of the meeting.
(d)
A new subject that requires attention by the board shall be added to the agenda at the request of the chair and approved by a majority vote of the board.
(e)
A copy of the agenda and a list of those members present shall be made available to the public for inspection within two business days of the adjournment of any meeting.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-07, 12-12-2002)
State Law reference— Meeting agenda, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(e)(1).
Sec. 2-59. - Minutes.
(a)
The clerk of the board shall promptly record the minutes for each board meeting. The minutes serve as the official written record of the board meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the board but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board. The minutes shall specify the names of commissioners present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the commissioner who proposed each motion, the commissioner who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a roll-call vote, the name of each commissioner voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a commissioner has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the board.
(b)
The board must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the board. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the commissioners at least two business days before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the board at the beginning of each meeting.
(c)
A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the chair and attested to by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-08, 12-12-2002)
State Law reference— Minutes of meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(e)(2).
Sec. 2-60. - Order of business.
All regular board of commissioners meetings should follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Call to order.
(2)
Invocation.
(3)
Pledge of allegiance to the flag.
(4)
Approval of minutes.
(5)
Approval of agenda.
(6)
Departmental reports.
(7)
Agenda items.
(8)
Motion to adjourn.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-09, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-61. - Decorum.
(a)
All commissioners must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks should be directed to the chair and not to individual commissioners, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A commissioner may not speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the chair. All comments made by a commissioner shall address the motion that is being discussed.
(b)
The chair shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a commissioner believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is required. The chair can rule on the question or he can allow the board to debate the issue and decide the issue by majority vote of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-10, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-62. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the board of commissioners shall be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public comments. All members of the public who wish to address the board must submit their names and the topic of their comments to the chair or clerk at least three business days before the board meeting. These individuals will be allotted five minutes to make their comments and their comments must be limited to the specific subject on which permission to speak has been requested of the board. These limits can be waived by the chair or can be waived by a majority vote of the board upon a duly passed motion.
(2)
Public participation on agenda items. The chair or a majority vote of the board may allow public comments on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the board. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for two minutes and may only speak once. Anyone wishing to speak at any board meeting must be recognized by the chair before addressing the board.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a board meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for commissioners. Individuals who violate any rules of the board may be ruled out of order by the chair or on a point of order made by a commissioner. A majority vote of the board will rule on the point of order. An individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the chair.
(4)
Public hearings. The board may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the board. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the board or at such other places and times as the board may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-11, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-63. - Parliamentarian.
The county attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for board meetings.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-12, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-64. - Amendments to rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order must be submitted by a commissioner in writing to the chair. The proposed amendment shall be included in the next month's agenda for the meeting and distributed to all board of commissioners members. All amendments require a majority vote of the board to be adopted.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-13, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-65. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held on the second Thursday of each month. All regular meetings shall be held in room 104 of the county courthouse or any other room in the county courthouse as designated by the chair. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at the county courthouse.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-14, 12-12-2002)
State Law reference— Regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-66. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the county site by the chair for any reason. Other special meetings may be scheduled by the chair or at the request of two commissioners. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to either the legal organ of the county or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-15, 12-12-2002)
State Law reference— Special meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-67. - Emergency meetings.
When emergency circumstances occur, the board of commissioners may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the board of commissioners as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-16, 12-12-2002)
State Law reference— Emergency meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-68. - Executive sessions.
(a)
Executive sessions of the board may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the board is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public.
(b)
No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of a quorum present at the meeting. The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the commissioners present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session may be maintained by the clerk of the board of commissioners at the direction of the chair. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the board may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated, or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated. The board shall comply with any other requirements of O.C.G.A.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-17, 12-12-2002)
State Law reference— Procedure when meeting closed, O.C.G.A. § 5-14-4.
Sec. 2-69. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable and requires a majority vote of the board. Rules governing quorum, section 2-53, voting methods and requirements, sections 2-54 and 2-55, the notification to commissioners of meetings, sections 2-67 and 2-68 and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-18, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-70. - Committees.
The chair may create committees of members of the board to study any issue before the board or contemplated by the board to be an issue. Any such committees may make recommendations to the board of commissioners but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to board members, committees may include other county officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any limitation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chair with the concurrence of the board. The chair shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-19, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-71. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound, and visual and sound recordings shall be permitted for all public meetings.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-20, 12-12-2002)
State Law reference— Recording during open meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(c).
Sec. 2-72. - Standing committees.
(a)
The chair shall appoint the following four standing committees, namely:
(1)
Finance;
(2)
Recreation;
(3)
Public works; and
(4)
General government.
(b)
Each committee shall consist of two members appointed by the chair and the chair shall serve as an ex officio member of each of the standing committees.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-21, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-73. - Adoption of ordinances.
(a)
All ordinances containing subject matter that has not been a part of a previously adopted ordinance shall be read at two consecutive regular meetings of the board of commissioners and may be considered for adoption after the second reading.
(b)
Previously adopted ordinances containing similar subject matter may be amended after one reading.
(Ord. No. 44, § 1-22, 12-12-2002)
Secs. 2-74—2-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-101. - Meetings to be in accordance with division.
All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. No. 45, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-102. - Main motion.
In order for the board to take any official action on any subject, a commissioner must propose a main motion. A proposed main motion will not be recognized by the chair until another commissioner agrees to second the motion. A second does not require the commissioner seconding the motion to support the motion. A commissioner may withdraw a main motion that he has made at any time before the board has voted on that motion.
(Ord. No. 45, § 1-01, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-103. - Debate.
(a)
After the main motion is recognized by the chair, the board of commissioners shall debate the motion. The debate shall be managed by the chair in a manner that is fair to all members of the board. Commissioners can participate in the debate only when they are recognized by the chair.
(b)
During the course of debate, commissioners may introduce subsidiary motions that propose that the board take a particular action on a motion, section 2-106. There are two classes of subsidiary motions: debatable subsidiary motions and undebatable subsidiary motions.
(1)
Debatable subsidiary motions consist of motions to postpone indefinitely, amend, refer to committee, and postpone to a time certain and require a second before they can be voted on or debated.
(2)
There are three undebatable subsidiary motions:
a.
Limit debate;
b.
Vote immediately; and
c.
Lay on the table.
They require a second and cannot be debated.
(c)
Commissioners may also introduce privileged motions, section 2-107. Privileged motions facilitate the running of the meeting and can be introduced during the course of debate. Privileged motions consist of a motion to raise a question of privilege and motions to recess and adjourn. The motions to recess and adjourn require a second. Debate is not allowed on privileged motions.
(Ord. No. 45, § 1-02, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-104. - Voting; procedure.
Voting on debatable motions and voting on undebatable motions shall take place in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
Debatable motions. In the case of debatable motions, the vote can be proposed in one of two ways:
a.
If debate has been completed and no other commissioner wishes to speak, the chair can call for the vote. If there are no objections then the chair can proceed with the vote;
b.
If the chair calls for the vote and there is an objection, a member of the board may move to vote immediately ("move the previous question"). If this motion is seconded and approved by a majority vote of a quorum, present at the meeting, debate will stop. The chair will then state the proposed motion to the board and ask for the votes of the commissioners.
(2)
Undebatable motions. In the case of undebatable motions, the vote shall occur immediately after the motion is recognized by the chair. The chair shall state the proposed motion to the board and then call for the vote.
(Ord. No. 45, § 1-03, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-105. - Ranking of motions.
(a)
Each subsidiary and privileged motion is assigned a specific rank. A motion of higher precedence can interrupt a motion of lower precedence. The higher motion must be decided before the board returns to consider the motion of lower precedence.
(b)
A main motion has the lowest rank and does not take precedence over any other motion. A motion to adjourn has the highest rank and will take precedence over all other subsidiary and privileged motions. The order of precedence of motions shall be in accordance with this section. Motions at the top of the following list take precedence over motions at the bottom of the list.
EXPAND
Highest Rank: Privileged Motions (Undebatable)
(1) Adjourn
(2) Recess
(3) Question of privilege
Subsidiary Motions (Undebatable)
(4) Lay on the table (postpone temporarily)
(5) Vote immediately (previous question)
(6) Limit debate or extend
Subsidiary Motions (Debatable)
(7) Postpone to a time certain (postpone definitely)
(8) Refer to committee (commit)
(9) Amend
(10) Postpone indefinitely
Other Motions
Lowest Rank: (11) Main motion
  (Ord. No. 45, § 1-04, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-106. - Subsidiary motions.
During the course of debate, commissioners may introduce motions that propose that the board take a particular action on a main motion. These motions are called subsidiary motions and they allow a board to reach a conclusion on the main motion. Subsidiary motions require a second before they can be voted on or debated. Three subsidiary motions, amend, limit debate and vote immediately, also can apply to other subsidiary motions.
(1)
Postpone indefinitely. If a commissioner believes that the main motion should not be considered by the board, that commissioner may move to postpone the consideration of the main motion indefinitely. If the motion is successful, consideration of the main motion stops and the main motion is tabled for the duration of the meeting. A motion to postpone indefinitely can be debated but it cannot be amended. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(2)
Amend.
a.
If a commissioner believes that a main motion that is being discussed should be changed in order to make it more acceptable, he can move to amend the motion. Amendments must be closely related to the original motion and must not change the nature of the motion that they amend. Motions to refer, amend, postpone to a time certain and the motion to recess can also be amended. A motion cannot be amended more than two times.
b.
Debate is allowed on a motion to amend only if the original motion is debatable. Debate is limited to the proposed amendment. A majority vote is required for the board to adopt an amendment. If the amendment is adopted then the board shall consider the amended version of the motion.
(3)
Refer to a committee (commit). If a commissioner believes that further information is needed before the board can act on a main motion, he may propose that the motion be referred to a specific committee or department for further study. If an appropriate committee does not already exist, then a committee may be formed as a part of the motion. A motion to commit should specify the date that the committee or department will report back to the board. This motion is debatable and amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(4)
Postpone to a time certain (postpone definitely). A motion to postpone to a certain time may be proposed if a commissioner believes that the main motion should not be considered until a future time. This motion shall set a particular time for the main motion to be considered again. It is debatable and can be amended. If this motion is passed, the chair will bring the original motion back to the board for consideration at the specified time which may be at the same meeting, at a subsequent meeting, or upon the occurrence of a specified event. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(5)
Limit or extend limits or debate. A motion to limit debate places a time constraint on the length of debate. The details of such a motion are to be decided by the commissioner who makes the motion. This motion can also be used to extend the limits of debate if a limit on debate already exists. Debate is not allowed on this motion and a majority vote is required.
(6)
Vote immediately (previous question). If a commissioner believes debate on a motion should end and that the motion that is being considered should be voted on, the commissioner can move to vote immediately. The motion is undebatable and a vote of majority of the board is required for the motion to pass.
(7)
Lay on the table (postpone temporarily). A motion to lay on the table proposes that the consideration of a main motion be postponed until a later time in the same meeting. The main motion can be brought back for consideration only if a motion to resume consideration is accepted by the board during the same meeting. The motion will die if it is not taken up during the meeting. Debate is not allowed on this motion and the motion is not amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. No. 45, § 1-05, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-107. - Privileged motions.
Privileged motions facilitate the running of the meeting. They do not address or relate to a main motion and can be introduced whether or not there is a main motion under consideration. Privileged motions take precedence over all subsidiary motions. Debate is not allowed on these motions.
(1)
Question of privilege. A formal question addressed to the chair concerning the rights of a commissioner or of the board as a whole is referred to as a question of privilege. It does not require a second and cannot be debated or amended. The chair is required to make a ruling on the question.
(2)
Recess. A motion to recess proposes that the meeting be suspended for a particular amount of time when business is still pending. It is a temporary intermission of the proceedings. The motion must specify the length of the recess. The motion must also be seconded. Debate is not allowed on this motion but the motion can be amended. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(3)
Adjourn. In order for a meeting to come to a close, a commissioner must make a motion to adjourn. The motion to adjourn has the highest rank of any motion and as a result it can be introduced at any time. The motion requires a second, but is not debatable or amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. No. 45, § 1-06, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-108. - Incidental motions.
Incidental motions allow commissioners to exert their rights as a member of the board. Incidental motions can be introduced at any time during a meeting.
(1)
Appeal. If a commissioner disagrees with a ruling that is made by the chair, that commissioner may appeal the decision. If the appeal is seconded, the appeal will be considered by the board. The chair has the opportunity to explain the ruling that has been challenged. The board may then debate the appeal. The board shall decide by majority vote if the chair's decision is to be upheld or overturned. An appeal is high in precedence and can only be interrupted by a privileged motion or by a lay on the table.
(2)
Parliamentary inquiry. If a commissioner has a question about the rules of order, he may ask the chair to give an opinion on that question. This question should take the form of a parliamentary inquiry and should relate to the current business of the board. This motion takes precedence over all motions except privileged motions. This motion does not require a second and is not debatable or amendable.
(3)
Point of order (question of order). If a commissioner believes that a violation of the rules of parliamentary procedure has occurred, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chair can make a ruling on the question or can allow the board to debate and then rule on the question by majority vote. A point of order can only be interrupted by a privileged motion or a motion to lay on the table.
(4)
Point of information (request for information). If a commissioner has a question about the facts of a particular issue that is being considered, he may ask for a point of information. This motion is addressed first to the chair and then to the appropriate person. A second is not required and the motion is not debatable or amendable.
(Ord. No. 45, § 1-07, 12-12-2002)
Sec. 2-109. - Supplementary main motions.
Three motions allow the board to act on a main motion that has either been passed or tabled by the board. These motions are considered to be main motions but differ from usual main motions in the ways specified.
(1)
Reconsider. The motion to reconsider allows the board to debate whether or not to overturn a decision made at the meeting that is in progress. It allows the board to consider new information that may affect the decision that has already been made. Any commissioner can make a motion to reconsider and any commissioner may second the motion. The motion is debatable but it cannot be amended. A majority vote of the board is required for the motion to pass. If a motion to reconsider is passed, the original decision will be voided and the board will return to debate and revote the original motion.
(2)
Rescind. A motion to rescind proposes that the board overturn a motion passed at a previous meeting. A motion to rescind can be made by any commissioner. It is in order as long as the original motion has not been implemented. An announcement of the intention to rescind a motion may be made at the meeting where the decision was made, or the commissioner seeking to rescind may place the matter on the agenda for the next meeting. The motion to rescind will then be placed on the agenda for the next meeting. At the next meeting, the motion to rescind will formally be made. If it is seconded, then the board shall debate and vote on rescission. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass. If a motion to rescind is passed, the original decision will be voided.
(3)
Resume consideration. The motion to resume consideration allows the board to consider a motion that has been temporarily postponed. This motion requires a second and is not debatable or amendable. It is a main motion but ranks higher than any debatable motion. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
(Ord. No. 45, § 1-08, 12-12-2002)
Secs. 2-110—2-140. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OTHER BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-141—2-160. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RESERVED

Secs. 2-161—2-200. - Reserved.
Editor's note— A resolution adopted April 14, 2005, § 1, repealed Art. III, Div. 2, §§ 2-161—2-168, in their entirety. Div. 2, §§ 2-161—2-168, pertained to ordinance advisory board and derived from Ord. No. 37, §§ 1—7, adopted Feb. 5, 1998.
ARTICLE IV. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Secs. 2-201—2-230. - Reserved.
