Chapter 74 - WATERWAYS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 30; land development, ch. 34; natural resources, ch. 46; parks and recreation, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62.
State Law reference— Protection of natural resources, environment, etc., O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 74-1—74-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PROTECTION OF WETLANDS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Natural resources, ch. 46.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 74-31. - Title; purpose.
This article shall be known as the "Wetland Protection Ordinance of Lincoln County, Georgia." The purpose of this article is to promote wetland protection, while taking into account varying ecological, economic development, recreational and aesthetic values. Activities that may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practicable as determined through a permitting process. The objective of this article is to protect wetlands from alterations that will significantly affect or reduce their primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, groundwater recharge, aesthetic nature and wildlife habitat.
(Ord. No. 40, § 1.2, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-32. - Findings of fact.
(a)
The wetlands within the county are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the economic well-being of many communities within the state.
(b)
Nationally, a considerable number of these important natural resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other acts. Piecemeal or cumulative losses will, over time, destroy additional wetlands. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare.
(c)
It is therefore necessary for the county to ensure maximum protection for wetlands by discouraging development activities that may adversely affect wetlands.
(Ord. No. 40, § 1.1, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-33. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
DPZ means the department of planning and zoning.
Functions means the beneficial roles that wetlands serve, including:
(1)
Storage, conveyance and attenuation of floodwater and stormwater;
(2)
Protection of water quality and quality and reduction of erosion;
(3)
Habitat for wildlife, including rare, threatened and endangered species;
(4)
Food chain support for a wide variety of wildlife and fisheries;
(5)
Educational, historical and archaeological value protection; and
(6)
Scenic, aesthetic and recreational amenities.
Generalized wetland map means the current U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory Maps for the county.
Hydric soils means soils that form as a result of saturated soils conditions. A list of these soils is maintained by the soil conservation service.
Hydrophytic vegetation means macrophytic plants tolerant of or dependent on saturated soil conditions.
Jurisdictional determination means an official, written statement or map signed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or, in the case of coastal marshlands, the state department of natural resources.
Jurisdictional wetland means wetland area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S. excepting those activities exempted in section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Silvicultural activity means any activity related to a branch of forestry dealing with the development and care of forests.
Temporary emergency permit means temporary permit that may be issued in certain circumstances specified in section 74-73(7).
Wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Wetland delineation means the establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an authority designated by the corps.
Wetland protection district means all wetlands within the jurisdiction of the county and shown on the generalized wetland map.
(Ord. No. 40, §§ 3.8, 10, 4-12-2001)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 74-34. - Assessment relief.
Assessors and boards of assessors shall consider wetland regulations in determining the fair market value of land. Any owner of an undeveloped wetland who has dedicated an easement or entered into a conservation program with the government or a nonprofit organization restricting activities in a wetland shall have that portion of land assessed consistent with those restrictions. Such landowner shall also be exempted from special assessment on the wetland to defray the cost of municipal improvements such as sanitary sewers, storm sewers and water mains.
(Ord. No. 40, § 8, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-35. - Amendments.
This article and the generalized wetland map may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information concerning wetland locations, soil, hydrology, flooding or plant species peculiar to wetlands becomes available.
(Ord. No. 40, § 7, 4-12-2001)
Secs. 74-36—74-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WETLAND PROTECTION DISTRICT

Sec. 74-51. - Applicability of article; map.
This article shall apply to all lands within wetlands located within the jurisdiction of the county. The generalized wetland map, adopted as part of this article, shows the general location of wetlands and should be consulted by persons contemplating activities in or near wetlands. The generalized wetland map, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this article. The generalized wetland map shall be on file in the office of the county clerk.
(Ord. No. 40, § 2.1, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-52. - Boundaries.
The generalized wetland map is a general reference document, and the wetland boundaries indicated on the map are approximations. The purpose of the generalized wetland map is to alert developers/landowners if they are within proximity to a wetland, which means that there is a high likelihood of the presence of a jurisdictional wetland and a need for the developer/landowner to seek U.S. Army Corps of Engineers guidance as to whether a section 404 permit will be required prior to any activity. The generalized wetland map does not represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the jurisdiction of the county and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this article does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Ord. No. 40, § 2.2, 4-12-2001)
Secs. 74-53—74-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PERMITS

Sec. 74-71. - Requirements.
No regulated activity will be allowed within the wetland protection district without written permission from the county in the form of a local development permit. Issuance of a local development permit is contingent on full compliance with the terms of this article and other applicable regulations. All activities that are not identified in section 74-72 shall be prohibited without prior issuance of a local development permit. If the area proposed for development is located within 200 feet of the wetland protection district boundary, as determined by the office of planning and zoning or authorized designee using the generalized wetland map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination shall be required. If the Corps determines that wetlands are present on the proposed development site and that a section 404 permit or letter of permission is required, a local development permit will be issued only following issuance of the Section 404 Permit or Letter of Permission. The locally appointed enforcement official shall be responsible for coordinating the necessary permitting process between the applicant and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.1, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-72. - Permissible uses (uses as of right) and prohibited uses.
(a)
Permissible uses. The following uses shall be allowed as of right within a wetland to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining or dredging except as provided in this article:
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish and other wildlife, provided they do not affect waters of the state or of the United States in such a way that would require an additional 404 permit.
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding and canoeing.
(3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the state forestry commission and as specified in section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(4)
The continued cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the state department of agriculture.
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research and nature trails.
(b)
Temporary emergency permit. A temporary emergency permit can be issued by the county for the following reasons:
(1)
Maintenance or repair of lawfully located roads or structures and of facilities used in the service of the public to provide transportation, electric, gas, water, telephone, telegraph, telecommunication or other services, provided that such roads, structures, or facilities are not materially changed or enlarged and written notice prior to the commencement of work has been given to the county and provided that the work is conducted using best management practices to ensure that flow and circulation patterns and chemical and biological characteristics of the wetland are not impaired and that any adverse effect on the aquatic environment will be minimized.
(2)
Temporary water-level stabilization measures associated with ongoing silvicultural operations.
(3)
Limited ditching, tilling, dredging, excavating or filling done solely for the purpose of maintaining or repairing existing drainage systems necessary for the cultivation of agricultural crops, provided that the maintenance or repair activity does not result in the impairment, alteration or loss of wetlands not previously subject to agricultural and silvicultural use under the terms and provisions of subsection (a)(4) of this section.
(4)
Limited excavating and filling necessary for the repair and maintenance of piers, walkways, nature trails, observation decks, wildlife management shelters, boathouses or other similar water-related structures, provided that they are built on pilings to allow unobstructed flow of water and preserve the natural contour of the wetland.
(c)
Prohibited uses. The following uses shall be prohibited within a wetland protection district:
(1)
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants.
(2)
Hazardous or sanitary waste landfills.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.2, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-73. - Site plans.
Applications for a local development permit within the generalized wetland protection district shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet, with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, cross sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on the cross sectional drawings.
(2)
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
(3)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet.
(4)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(5)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet; and no greater than one foot for slopes less than or equal to two percent.
(6)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(7)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.3, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-74. - Activities to comply with site plan.
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of the plan. The site plan may be amended only with the approval of the county. The county may require additional information deemed necessary to verify compliance with the provisions of this article or to evaluate the proposed use in terms of the purpose of this article.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.4, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-75. - Subdivision approval in the district.
Any application for a subdivision approval shall include a jurisdictional determination approved by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. If the corps determines that wetlands are present and that a section 404 permit or letter of permission is required, subdivision approval will be issued only following issuance of the section 404 permit or letter of permission.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.5, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-76. - Subdivision design options in the district.
Any subdivision that includes jurisdictional wetlands shall be allowed and encouraged to use the following options:
(1)
Lot size averaging. Lot size averaging is encouraged in single-family detached subdivisions as a means to work around wetlands. The county may allow a reduction in lot size provided that the same number of lots in the same subdivision are oversized by an equal or greater area. The maximum permissible reduction shall not exceed 25 percent of the minimum required lot area. The number of lots with areas reduced shall not exceed 25 percent of the total number of lots in the subdivision. The county shall require no more than a 25-percent adjustment of side, rear and front setbacks for each affected lot.
(2)
Cluster development. Clustering of residential development is encouraged. When considering subdivision approval, the county will allow incorporation of wetland or other significant natural areas as open space in the subdivision plan. Such plans should designate at least 25 percent of the gross land area as open space. Density shall be calculated by subtracting from the total acreage of a parcel all land dedicated or in use for private or public roads, including all vehicular rights-of-way. The resultant acreage will then be divided by the minimum allowed lot size of the district to derive the number of lots permissible.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.6, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-77. - Filing fee.
At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing fee specified by the county. Filing fees up to a maximum of $100.00 may be required to evaluate the application. This fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services pertaining to functional assessment, mitigation and wetland boundary determinations as deemed necessary by the county.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.7, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-78. - Enforcement authority.
The department of planning and zoning shall be the administrator of this article.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.8, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-79. - Review procedures.
The application shall be made to the DPZ and will be reviewed within 30 days. The review period shall begin upon determination by the DPZ that the application submitted is complete. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval or disapproval) by the DPZ. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the county. If the review process is not completed within 30 days, the application is considered approved.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.9, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-80. - Appeals.
Decisions on permit applications made by the DPZ may be appealed to board of commissioners. The appeal must be made within 30 days of the decision rendered by the DPZ. A public hearing shall be held for appeals. Public announcement of the hearing shall be printed in a local newspaper of general circulation at least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the hearing. Any person may offer testimony at the hearing. The decision of the board of commissioners may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as discussed in sections 74-151 and 74-152.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.10, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-81. - Duration of permit.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
(c)
Written notice of the pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the DPZ.
(Ord. No. 40, § 3.11, 4-12-2001)
Secs. 74-82—74-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 74-101. - Entrance on private property.
The county, its agent, officers and employees shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing their duties under this article and may take or cause to be made such examinations, surveys or sampling as the county deems necessary.
(1)
All enforcement and monitoring activities conducted by the county that involves entrance to privately owned land by the county shall be preceded by written notification to the landowner. The notification shall be issued at least 30 days prior to the activities specified in the notification.
(2)
The DPZ shall have authority to enforce this article; issue permits hereunder; and address violations or threatened violations hereof by issuance of violation notices, administrative orders and civil and criminal actions. All costs, fees and expenses in connection with such actions may be recovered as damages against the violator.
(3)
Law enforcement officials, the code enforcement officer, or other officials having police powers shall have authority to assist the DPZ in enforcement.
(4)
The code enforcement officer shall have authority to issue cease and desist orders in the event of any violation of this article. Cease and desist orders may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as identified in sections 74-151 and 74-152.
(Ord. No. 40, § 4.1, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-102. - Compliance bond.
The county may require a bond in an amount of $1,000.00 and with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions set forth in the permit. The particular amount and the conditions of the bond shall be consistent with the purposes of this article. In the event of a breach of any condition of any such bond, the county may institute an action in a court of competent jurisdiction upon such bond and prosecute the same to judgement and execution.
(Ord. No. 40, § 4.2, 4-12-2001)
Secs. 74-103—74-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES

Sec. 74-121. - Generally.
Any person who commits, takes part in or assists in any violation of any provision of this article may be punished as provided in section 1-9 for each offense. Each violation shall be a separate offense and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. 40, § 5.1, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-122. - Construction in violation of article.
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator may be required to remove the structure at the discretion of the county.
(Ord. No. 40, § 5.2, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-123. - Prohibited removal of vegetation.
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable, at the discretion of the county.
(Ord. No. 40, § 5.3, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-124. - Notice to U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
If the county discovers a violation of this article that also constitutes a violation of any provision of the Federal Clean Water Act as amended, the county shall issue written notification of the violation to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the landowner.
(Ord. No. 40, § 5.4, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-125. - Suspension or revocation of permit.
The county may suspend or revoke a permit if it finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of work set forth in the permit. The county shall cause notice of denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having broad circulation in the area where the wetland is located.
(Ord. No. 40, § 5.5, 4-12-2001)
Secs. 74-126—74-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - JUDICIAL REVIEW

Sec. 74-151. - Jurisdiction.
All final decisions of the county concerning denial, approval or conditional approval of a special permit shall be reviewable in the county superior court.
(Ord. No. 40, § 6.1, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 74-152. - Alternative actions.
Based on these proceedings and the decision of the court, the county may, within the time specified by the court, elect to:
(1)
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
(2)
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
(3)
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the DPZ.
(Ord. No. 40, § 6.2, 4-12-2001)
