Chapter 66 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness saved from repeal, § 1-10(2); any ordinance relating to specific public improvements or assessments for such improvements saved from repeal, § 1-10(5); any ordinance, consistent with this Code, provision for the levy or collection of taxes or for an annual budget or appropriations saved from repeal, § 1-10(6); administration, ch. 2; excise taxes for the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages, § 10-33; businesses, ch. 22; occupation taxes and regulatory fees, § 22-31 et seq.
State Law reference— Issuance of notes, etc., in anticipation of taxes, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-2; revenue and taxation, O.C.G.A. title 48; county taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-220 et seq.; excise tax on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 66-1—66-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.

Sec. 66-31. - Findings.
(a)
The laws of the state authorize the board of commissioners to collect an excise tax upon the furnishing for value to the public of rooms, lodgings or other accommodations.
(b)
The board of commissioners of the county has determined that it is in the interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county to levy and collect such a tax.
(Ord. No. 27, §§ 1, 2, 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-32. - Tax levied.
There is hereby levied, as authorized by law, an excise tax at the rate of five percent of the rent paid for the occupancy of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished by any person or legal entity located within the geographical boundaries of the county by law operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings or accommodations are regularly furnished for value. No tax shall be levied as provided in this section upon fees or charges for any rooms, lodgings, accommodations furnished for a period of more than ten consecutive days or for use as meeting rooms. No tax shall be levied as provided in this section upon the fees or charges for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more consecutive days for use by state or local government officials or employees when traveling on official business.
(Ord. No. 27, § 3, 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-33. - Collection by operator.
It shall be the duty of every operator of any establishment covered by section 66-32 of this article to collect the tax on occupants as imposed in section 66-32.
(Ord. No. 27, § 4, 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-34. - Registration required.
(a)
Every person engaging in, or about to engage in, business as an operator of any establishment covered by section 66-32 of this article shall register the business with the county, on a form provided by the county for such purpose. The required registration under this article shall set forth the name under which operator transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of the place of business, and such other information as would facilitate the collection of the tax by the county. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; by a member or general partner in case of ownership by an association or partnership; or by an appropriate officer in the case of ownership by a corporation.
(b)
A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator.
(Ord. No. 27, § 5, 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-35. - Issuance of certificate of authority.
Upon the registration of an operator as provided in section 66-34, the county shall issue to such operator without charge a certificate of authority to collect the tax on occupants. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it relates. Such certificate of authority shall also constitute a license by the county to operate such an establishment; provided, however, that such license shall not relieve the operator from obtaining any other required licenses or permits.
(Ord. No. 27, § 6, 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-36. - When due and payable.
All taxes levied by this article shall be due and payable to the county monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective month in which such taxes are collected, and payment shall be accompanied by a return for the preceding monthly period showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, and such other information as may be required by the county.
(Ord. No. 27, § 7, 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-37. - Operator allowed percentage of tax due.
Operators collecting the tax levied under this article shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction for submitting, reporting and payment of the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be three percent of the total amount of tax collected.
(Ord. No. 27, § 8, 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-38. - Failure to file a return.
(a)
If an operator fails to file a return as required under the provisions of this section, the county shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross rentals which are subject to tax. The estimate shall be made for a period in which the operator failed to file the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the county.
(b)
The board of commissioners or its designated representative shall give to the operator written notice of the determination as provided in this article. The notice may be served personally or by mail. If by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the county's records. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(c)
The amount of the determination made under this article shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount, or any portion thereof, should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(d)
When any operator fails to make any return or to pay the full amount of the tax required by this article, there shall be imposed, in addition to other penalties provided by law, a penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, if the failure is for not more than 30 days and an additional five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, for each additional 30 days or fraction of 30 days during which the failure continues. The penalty for any single violation shall not exceed 25 percent or $25.00 in the aggregate, whichever is greater. If the failure is due to providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the board of commissioners in affidavit form attached to the return and remittance is made within ten days of due date, the return may be accepted exclusive of penalties and interest. In the case of a false or fraudulent return or of a failure to file a return where willful intent exists to defraud the board of commissioners of any tax due under this article, a penalty of 50 percent of the tax due shall be assessed.
(e)
The estimated tax together with applicable penalties and interest may be collected utilizing any of the enforcement methods set forth in this article.
(Ord. No. 27, § 9, 8-6-1991)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-58.
Sec. 66-39. - Recordkeeping required.
Each operator collecting a tax under the provisions of this article shall keep for a period of at least three years all records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers setting forth the rental charged for each occupant, the date of occupancy, and such other information as the county may require.
(Ord. No. 27, § 10, 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-40. - Administration and enforcement.
The board of commissioners or its designated representative shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed in this article, and in so doing shall have the following powers to:
(1)
Examine, or authorize the examination, at all reasonable hours of all books, invoices, papers, financial reports, other records referred to in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-53.4, equipment, and other facilities of any operator subject to this article, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid;
(2)
Require the filing of reports by any person having in their possession or custody information relating to rentals which are subject to the tax levied in this article; and
(3)
Allow a credit on any amount due and payable from persons who paid the tax levied in this article but who were erroneously or illegally subjected thereto.
(Ord. No. 27, § 11, 8-6-1991)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 66-41. - When court action required.
At any time within three years after any tax or any portion of such tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, the county attorney at the direction of the board of commissioners may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the county to collect such amount due together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees, and other legal fees incident thereto.
(Ord. No. 27, § 12, 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-42. - Operator selling or quitting business; withholding of purchase money by purchaser; liability of purchaser for failure to withhold purchase money.
If any operator liable for any tax, interest or penalty imposed by this article sells his business or quits the business, he shall make a final return and payment within 15 days after the date of selling or quitting the business. The operator's successor or assigns, if any, shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase money to cover the amount of the taxes, interest and penalties due under this article and unpaid until the former owner produces either a receipt from the board of commissioners imposing the tax showing that the taxes, interest and penalties due under this article have been paid or a certificate from the board of commissioners imposing the tax stating that no tax, interest or penalty is due under this article. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold the purchase money as required by this section, he shall be personally liable for the payment of any taxes, interest and penalties accruing under this article and unpaid by any former owner or assignor. The personal liability of the purchaser in such a case shall not exceed the amount of the total purchase money, but the property being transferred shall in all cases be subject to the full amount of the tax lien arising from the delinquencies of the former owner. Paid executions may be transferred and enforced as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. No. 27, § 13, 8-6-1991)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-53.1.
Sec. 66-43. - Violation of article.
(a)
Any person who shall do anything prohibited by this article, or who shall fail to do anything required by this article, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, amendable to the process of the magistrate court of the county and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in section 1-9. Each and every day that such violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
(b)
In order to enforce this article, or to correct or abate any violation of this article, the board of commissioners, in addition to other remedies may institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action.
(Ord. No. 27, § 14, 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-44. - Other applicable ordinances or laws.
Any ordinance or law which may be applicable hereto and aid in carrying or making effective the intent, purpose and provisions hereof, which shall be liberally construed to be in favor of the county is hereby adopted as a part hereof.
(Ord. No. 27, § 15(b), 8-6-1991)
Sec. 66-45. - Proceeds of the transient occupancy tax.
The proceeds of the transient occupancy tax collected under this article shall be used in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3) and for all lawful purposes stated therein.
(Ord. of 12-14-2006)
