ARTICLE IV. - WATER
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 60-461. - Private wells.
No private wells shall be constructed upon any premises whether industrial or residential within the city until after a permit for the installation thereof shall have been obtained from the plumbing inspector and the project has had the approval of the city-county health department and the board of water, gas and light commissioners.
(Code 1975, § 33-1; Code 1985, § 27-71)
Sec. 60-462. - Private water supplies to be metered before introduction into city sewerage system.
Any private water supply, regardless of whether its source originates within or without the city, shall be metered in accordance with existing city standards or otherwise evaluated as determined by the applicable sewer use rate schedule before being introduced into the public sewerage system of the city. The provisions of this section shall apply to existing installations as well as future installations.
(Code 1975, § 33-2; Code 1985, § 27-72)
Sec. 60-463. - Sewer service charges to apply to water from all sources.
The existing charge as now established or which may hereafter be established for sewerage disposal shall apply to all water, from whatever source obtained, which may hereafter be introduced into the public sewerage system.
(Code 1975, § 33-3; Code 1985, § 27-73)
Sec. 60-464. - Illegal use of water.
It shall be unlawful for any person, not a regular consumer of water from the city waterworks system or acting under direction or permission of a regular consumer or the board of water, gas and light commissioners, to obtain or use for any purpose whatever, except for the extinguishment of fire, water from the faucets, pipes or fixtures placed in or on any lot or building for the use of a regular consumer.
(Code 1975, § 33-6; Code 1985, § 27-76)
Sec. 60-465. - Mandatory water use restrictions.
(a)
Residential, commercial and industrial outside water use. Residential, commercial and industrial outside water use shall be restricted as set forth in the Board of Natural Resources, Rules for Outdoor Water Use, chapter 391-3-30 et seq., the same being expressly incorporated herein by reference. The EPD regulations regarding nondrought periods are contained at chapter 391-3-30-.03; for drought conditions at chapter 391-3-30-.04 (Rules of the state Department of Natural Resources, Outdoor Water Use, chapter 391-3-30 et seq.). Copies of each of the foregoing are attached hereto and expressly incorporated herein by reference.
(b)
Penalties. Violations of this section shall be as follows:
(1)
Any person or entity found to be violating the provisions of this section for the first time shall be served written notice stating the nature of the violation and shall be issued a warning ticket for the violation.
(2)
Upon a second violation by any person or entity, water service shall be terminated and a fine of $200.00 shall be imposed.
(3)
Upon a third violation and all subsequent violations, water service shall be terminated and a current water tapping fee as published by the water, gas and light commission for each violation shall be imposed.
(4)
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all specifications and requirements of the water, gas and light commission shall apply to any reconnection.
(c)
Restriction on outdoor irrigation of landscapes. Outdoor irrigating for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(1)
Commercial agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3;
(2)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or stormwater in compliance with applicable local resolutions and state guidelines;
(3)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable board of health regulations adopted pursuant thereto;
(4)
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
(5)
Irrigation of personal food gardens;
(6)
Irrigating new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
(7)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(8)
Handwatering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(9)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(10)
Irrigation of horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(11)
Irrigation of athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(12)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(13)
Hydroseeding.
(d)
Enforcement and penalties. No person shall use or allow the use of water in violation of the restrictions on outdoor irrigation use contained in this section. Any violation of any provision of this section shall be punishable as set forth in section 1-17 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 06-124, §§ 1, 2, 8-22-2006; Ord. No. 10-141, § 1, 12-14-2010)
Sec. 60-466. - Meter required.
(a)
All water services shall be metered.
(b)
Any water service line that is purposely installed to provide water for domestic or non-domestic use shall be metered.
Secs. 60-467—60-485. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CONTROL OF BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTION

Sec. 60-486. - Purpose.
(a)
The purpose of this division is to protect the public potable water distribution system supplied by the water, gas and light commission (WGL) from the possibility of pollution or contamination by containing within its customers' internal or private water systems such pollutants or contaminants which could backflow into the public potable water system.
(b)
This division also provides for the maintenance of a continuing program for backflow prevention and cross-connection control, which will systematically and effectively prevent potential contamination or pollution of the public potable water distribution system and to provide penalties for the violation or noncompliance of the provisions of this division.
(c)
As drinking water quality standards are increasing in the state, a greater focus is now being given to the prevention of contamination of water distribution systems. Federal and state agencies have regulated cross-connection control and back-flow prevention for a long period of time. These regulations require the water purveyor to take measures to ensure compliance and assist in the protection of the water supply and public health.
Sec. 60-487. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Air gap means the unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the vessel. An approved air-gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe, measured vertically, above the top of the overflow rim of the receiving vessel and in no case less than one inch.
Approved means accepted by the WGL as meeting an applicable specification stated or citied in this division, or as suitable for the purposed use.
Auxiliary water supply means any water supply on or available to the premises other than the purveyor's approved public potable water supply. These waters may be contaminated or polluted or they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water purveyor has no sanitary control.
Backflow means the reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either backpressure or backsiphonage.
Backflow assembly, backflow device, or backflow preventer means an approved device designed to prevent backflow. Approved devices shall be as follows:
(1)
Double check valve assembly means an assembly of two independently operating approved check valves with tightly closing shut-off valves on each end of the check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the testing of each check valve. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance specifications as determined by a laboratory and field evaluation program resulting in an approval of a recognized and approved testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies (e.g., The University of Southern California Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research). To be approved, these devices must be readily accessible for in-line testing and maintenance.
(2)
Double check valve detector check assembly shall have the same requirements as a double check valve assembly, but shall be provided with a metered bypass to detect the flow of water through the assembly.
(3)
Reduced pressure principle assembly means an assembly of two independently acting approved check valves, together with a hydraulically operating mechanically independent pressure relief valve located between the check valves and at the same time below the first check valve. The unit shall include properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut-off valves at each end of the assembly. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance specifications as determined by a laboratory and field evaluation program resulting in an approval of a recognized and approved testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies (e.g., The University of Southern California Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research). The assembly shall operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the two check valves at an acceptable level less than the pressure on the public water supply of the device. At cessation of normal flow the pressure between the two check valves shall be less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the device. In case of leakage of either of the check valves, the differential relief valve shall operate to maintain the reduced pressure in the zone between the check valves by discharging to the atmosphere. When the inlet pressure is two pounds per square inch or less, the relief valve shall open to the atmosphere. To be approved, these devices must be readily accessible for in-line testing and maintenance and be installed in a location where no part of the device will be submerged.
(4)
Reduced pressure principal detector check assembly shall have the same requirements as a reduced pressure principal assembly, but, shall be provided with a metered bypass to detect the flow of water through the assembly.
Backpressure means the flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances under pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source other than the intended source.
Backsiphonage means the flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any other source other than its intended source caused by sudden reduction of pressure in the potable water supply system.
Certified tester means a person who has met the requirements set forth by the state environmental protection division to test backflow prevention assemblies.
Contamination means an impairment of the quality of the potable water by sewage industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a degree which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through poisoning or through the spread of disease.
Consumer, user, means anyone that uses the water provided and delivered by the WGL water distribution system.
Cross-connection means any actual or potential connection, link, or structural arrangement between the public potable water supply distribution system and any other source or system through which it would be possible to introduce into any part of the public potable water supply system any used water, liquids, mixtures or substances.
Cross-connection controlled means a connection between the public potable water distribution system and a nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the protection required.
Cross-connection controlled by containment means the installation of one approved backflow prevention assembly immediately downstream of the water meter, service connection or at the point where WGL loses sanitary control.
Customer, user, means anyone who purchases the water provided and delivered by the WGL water distribution system.
Fire line means a water service that provides water from the public water system for the purpose of supplying water for fire protection equipment (e.g., fire hydrants or fire sprinkler systems).
General manager means the general manager of the board of water, gas and light commissioners of the city, who is vested with the authority and responsibility for the implementation of an effective cross-connection control program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this division.
Hazard, degree of, shall be derived from an evaluation of the potential risk to public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the public potable water distribution system:
(1)
Hazard, health, means any condition, device or practice in the water supply system and it's operation which could create, or in the judgment of the WGL, may create a danger to the health and well-being of the water consumer.
(2)
Hazard, pollution, means an actual or potential threat to the physical properties of the water system or to the portability of the public or the consumer's potable water system which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but, would not be dangerous to the health or well-being of the consumer.
Hotbox means a box or other similar device built specifically for the purpose of protecting a backflow prevention assembly from freezing and from environmental elements.
Industrial fluids means any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would constitute a health, system pollution or plumbing hazard if introduced into the public potable water distribution system.
Pollution means the presence of any foreign substance, organic, inorganic or biological, in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably affect such waters domestic use.
Water meter means any device placed into service by WGL to determine the amount of water being used through the water service connection to a premises.
Water, nonpotable, means water which is not safe for human consumption or is no longer under the sanitary of WGL.
Water, potable, means any water which, according to recognized standards, is safe for human consumption and is under the sanitary control of WGL.
Water purveyor means a supplier of water, i.e., WGL.
Water service connection means the terminal end of a service connection from the public potable water distribution system, i.e., where the WGL loses jurisdiction and/or sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the customer's water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service connection, then the service connection means the downstream end of the meter. There should be no unprotected take-offs between the water meter and backflow prevention assembly located at the point of delivery to the customer's water system. Service connection shall also include water service connection from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency service connections from the public potable water distribution system.
Water system means that system which is made up of two parts, the board of water, gas and light commissioners system and the customer's system, as follows:
(1)
The board of water, gas and light commissioners water system shall consist of the source facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the water system under complete control of the water, gas and light commission, up to the point where the customer's system begins.
(2)
The source shall include all components of the facilities used in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of the water to the distribution system.
(3)
The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used for the delivery of water from the source to the customer's system.
(4)
The customer's system shall include those parts of the facilities beyond the termination of the WGL distribution system which are used in conveying WGL delivered domestic water to its point of use.
Water, used, means any water supplied by WGL through the public potable water distribution system to a consumer's water system after it has passed through the point of delivery and is no longer under the sanitary control of WGL.
WGL means the water, gas and light commission.
WGL representative means an employee of the water, gas and light commission of the city, that the general manager has delegated the authority and responsibility of implementing an effective cross-connection control program and for the enforcement of provisions of this division.
Sec. 60-488. - Responsibility.
The water, gas and light commission (WGL) shall be responsible for the protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to the backflow of contaminants or pollutants through the public potable water service connection. If the WGL requires, now or in the future, an approved backflow prevention assembly to protect its water distribution system, the WGL shall give notice, in writing, to the customer to install an approved backflow prevention assembly at each service connection to such customer's premises. The customer must take necessary arrangements to install or to have installed at his or her own expense, an approved backflow assembly immediately downstream of the water meter or water service connection. Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the customer to install, have tested and maintain such assembly shall constitute a grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such requirements have been satisfactorily met.
Sec. 60-489. - Requirements.
(a)
No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or maintained by the water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as required by federal and state laws and regulations and WGL's control of backflow and cross-connections ordinance. Service of water to any premises shall be discontinued by the water purveyor if a backflow prevention assembly required by this division is not installed, tested and maintained, at the customer's expense, or if it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been removed or by-passed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises. Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are corrected satisfactorily.
(b)
The customer's system shall be open for inspection at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of WGL to determine whether cross-connections or other sanitary hazards including violations of this ordinance exist. When such a condition becomes known, the WGL shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected the conditions in compliance with federal, state and city statutes and regulations relating to plumbing and water supplies.
(c)
An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed, at the customer's expense, on each service line to the customer's water system immediately downstream of the water meter, service connection or at the point at which the WGL loses sanitary control.
(d)
It shall be the duty of the customer-user at any premise where backflow prevention devices are installed to have certified inspections and operational tests made at least once per year. In those instances where the WGL deems the hazard to be great enough, more frequent inspection intervals may be required. These inspections and tests shall be at the expense of the water user and shall be performed by a certified tester. It shall be the duty of the WGL to see that theses tests are done in a timely manner. The customer-user shall notify the WGL in advance when the tests are undertaken so that WGL representatives may witness the tests if so desired. These devices shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the customer-user whenever such devices are found to be defective. Records of such tests, repairs or replacements shall be kept and made available to the WGL.
(e)
It shall be the duty of the customer-user/property owner at any premise where backflow prevention assemblies are required to be installed above ground, to provide adequate freeze protection and protection from environmental elements, i.e., a hotbox.
(f)
Only those persons that possess a valid state plumbing license or utility contractors license or the property owner, may install a backflow prevention assembly.
(g)
Only those persons that possess a valid certification from a tester certification program recognized by the state environmental protection division and are approved by WGL shall test any backflow prevention assembly.
(h)
Only those persons that possess a valid state plumbers license or a valid backflow preventer repair certification and are approved by WGL, may repair any backflow prevention assembly.
(i)
Each backflow prevention assembly shall be tested immediately after installation, repair or relocation.
(j)
Gauges used in testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested annually in accordance with the University of Southern California Manual of Cross-Connection or American Water Works Association Manual 14. Testers shall be required to include test gauge serial numbers and the due date for the next calibration when submitting backflow test reports.
(k)
The type of protective device required to be installed at the expense of the customer under subsection (c) of this section shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
(1)
At premises where there is an auxiliary water supply which is not or may not be of a safe bacteriological or chemical quality and which is not acceptable as an additional source by the WGL, or any premises where there may be water, substance or materials that could be hazardous to health or where there is an uncontrollable cross-connection, whether actual or potential, the public water system shall be protected by the installation of an approved reduced pressure principal backflow prevention assembly.
(2)
At premises where there may be water, substances or materials that may be objectionable but not considered a hazard to public health if introduced into the public water supply, the public water system shall be protected by an approved double check valve assembly.
(3)
At premises that have a fire line installed for fire protection, the public water system shall be protected by an approved double check valve detector assembly. If the fire line is fully metered, a double check valve assembly shall be installed.
(4)
At premises that have a fire line where antifreeze or any other chemicals are added to a fire sprinkler system, or where it is possible for the fire line to be connected to an auxiliary water source, the public water system shall be protected by a reduced pressure principal detector assembly. If the fire line is fully metered, a reduced pressure principal assembly shall be installed.
(l)
Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be a model and size approved by the WGL. The term "approved backflow prevention assembly or device," for the purpose of this section, means an assembly or device that has been manufactured in full conformance with the standards established by the American Water Works Association entitled:
(1)
AWWA C510-97, or latest revision (AWWA standard for double check valve backflow prevention assembly).
(2)
AWWA C511-97, or latest revision (AWWA standard for reduced pressure principal backflow prevention assembly).
(m)
All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not meet the requirements of this division but were approved devices for the purposes described at the time of installation and which have been properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of this division so long as the WGL is assured that the device will satisfactorily protect the distribution system. Whenever the device is moved from its present location or requires more than the minimum maintenance, the device shall be replaced by an approved backflow prevention assembly meeting the requirements of this division.
Sec. 60-490. - General notification.
The WGL shall provide general notification of the public through media advertising, bill inserts or similar means, and direct notification of this division's existence and purpose.
Sec. 60-491. - Violations; penalties.
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any requirement of this division or to violate any provision hereof. In addition to the general penalties mentioned in section 1-17, service shall be terminated if the violation or noncompliance is not promptly remedied.
Secs. 60-492—60-877. - Reserved.
