ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 60-1. - Public utilities—Construction for private purposes; reversion to city.
Whenever any public utility shall have been constructed or installed for any person, upon the completion thereof, such utility shall thereupon become a part of the city's public utility system, available for the use of the city for the service of others, in the same manner and to the same extent as all other public utilities otherwise established for the city.
(Code 1975, § 2-5; Code 1985, § 27-1)
Sec. 60-2. - Same—Perpetual easement in favor of city required.
No type of public utility shall be established across or upon any private property until after a perpetual easement therefor is executed in favor of the city.
(Code 1975, § 2-6; Code 1985, § 27-2)
Sec. 60-3. - Tampering prohibited.
(a)
The following acts are declared to be unlawful:
(1)
Tampering with or altering any utility or any line, wire, pipe or other devices or other instrumentality used in connection with the operation of the utility system of the board of water, gas and light commissioners;
(2)
Tampering with, resetting or otherwise interfering with any metering device used in the operation of the utility system of the water, gas and light commission whether such device is owned by the board of water, gas and light commissioners, the customer or otherwise, so as to cause it to run backward or to fail to operate or to register incorrectly;
(3)
Performing any act or using any means, method, device or contrivance which bypasses a metering device, metering instrument or other instrument used to measure consumption of utilities, or which otherwise prevents such device from accurately recording the consumption of the utility, regardless of whether such device is owned by the board of water, gas and light commissioners, the customer or otherwise;
(4)
Placing upon the lines, conductors, pipes or other instrumentalities conveying utilities, regardless of whether same are owned by the board of water, gas and light commissioners, the customer or otherwise, any device or instrument by means of which the utility is made available without being measured or recorded;
(5)
Any unauthorized use of a metering device or a conducting facility so as to obtain utilities without paying therefor.
(b)
Any person who performs any of the acts enumerated in this section, or who conspires to do or procures or causes to be done any of such acts, or who uses or consumes any utility furnished by the board of water, gas and light commissioners with knowledge that any of the acts have been done and that such use is not being properly and accurately recorded, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-17.
(Code 1975, § 21-4; Code 1985, § 27-3)
Sec. 60-4. - Franchise required to provide electric utility services.
(a)
No entity or person may sell or provide electric utility services to any customer within the corporate limits of the City of Albany, Georgia, as those corporate limits may be extended from time to time, without first obtaining a franchise from the city. Such franchise will permit the person or entity to sell or provide said electric utility services within designated geographical areas of the city's corporate limits and to designated service locations. If granted, the franchise agreement shall contain, at a minimum and at the discretion of the city, the term of the agreement, the franchise fee or other valuable consideration that is to be paid to the city, the specific electric utility services to be provided within the city limits, the geographical areas and service locations to be served, appropriate terms and conditions of service including provisions and conditions for the utilization of the city's streets and rights-of-way, and appropriate health and safety regulations. However, the terms of the franchise agreement shall not be construed to limit the city's ability to require permits for the construction or maintenance of said electric utility facilities. Any fees required by city for such permits will be in addition to the franchise fee.
(b)
Existing electric utility facilities and infrastructure situated within the corporate limits of the city may not be extended or modified without the approval of the city and not until such time as the owner or operator of any such electric utility facilities or infrastructure enters into a franchise agreement with the city.
(c)
Occupation of the city's streets and right-of-ways by providers of electric utility services may be subject to the payment of rent in addition to any payments required pursuant to a franchise agreement. The rental fee for occupying the city's streets and rights-of-way will be determined by the city commission on a case-by-case basis.
(d)
The existing franchise agreement dated May 12, 1987, by and between the Georgia Power Company and the city during its term, shall not be affected by this section, except that such preexisting franchise agreement may not be assigned, set-over or sold to any other entity without the prior written approval of the city. The rights granted under such franchise agreement to the Georgia Power Company shall not be used by any third party or entity without the prior written approval of the city. This shall not restrict, or in any way limit, the rights granted to the Georgia Power Company with regard to any successor in interest, corporate reorganization or bona fide sale of its facilities.
(e)
The city attorney shall cause to be prepared a uniform franchise agreement to be used by this commission, if requests are made under this section. While each franchise agreement so submitted will be on a case-by-case basis, it shall conform to the general provisions of this section.
(Code 1985, § 27-4; Ord. No. 97-134, §§ 1—5, 8-12-1997)
Sec. 60-5. - Investigation, entry, access and inspection.
(a)
The city, through its employees may enter at reasonable times on any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating the condition, construction, maintenance, or operation of any utility service (electricity, natural gas, water, sanitary sewer or storm sewer).
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such inspection. Examples of such prohibited acts include, but are not limit to, hindering access to an electric meter, natural gas meter, water meter, storm or sanitary sewer infrastructure by use of building materials, fences, animals, constructional add-ons, vehicles, rubbish or other means whereby access to such structures is obstructed.
(c)
A violation of this code section shall be punished as provided in section 1-17 and 1-18 of the City Charter.
(Ord. No. 13-132, § 1, 11-26-2013)
Secs. 60-6—60-26. - Reserved.
