Chapter 46 - RAILROADS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Railroad companies generally, O.C.G.A. § 46-8-20 et seq.

Sec. 46-1. - Jumping on or off cars, trains, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except employees of a railroad company, to jump off or on any moving railroad train, car or engine within the city or its police jurisdiction.
(Code 1975, § 26-3; Code 1985, § 22-1)
Sec. 46-2. - Bridges and crossings; to build or repair, etc.
(a)
In all cases in which a railroad company is required or liable by law to build bridges in the city or to keep bridges and crossings in repair, on or across a street crossed by the tracks of the railroad company, such railroad company shall, when the building of a new bridge or the repairing of such crossings is declared by the board of city commissioners to be necessary or proper, be notified by the director of the code enforcement department to commence the building of such bridge or repairing of such crossings within ten days and prosecute the same in good faith to completion.
(b)
The notice provided for in subsection (a) of this section shall be in writing and served by the chief of police on the principal officer of the railroad company in the city or at the principal office of the company in the city.
(c)
Should a railroad company, notified as provided in subsection (a) of this section fail or refuse to commence in good faith the building or repairing of a bridge or the repairing of a crossing within the time specified in such notice and in accordance with the foregoing provisions, then and in that event, the city will proceed to such work of building or repairing such bridge, or crossing, at the charge and expense of such railroad company, and within five days after the completion of such work by the city, the city engineer shall report in writing to the city clerk the amount and value of the work performed and expense incurred in such work. Whereupon, the city shall issue execution as other executions are issued by the city, for the amount of such value or expense and the cost of the proceedings against such defaulting railroad company.
(d)
To such execution a defense may be made and filed as in the case of illegality, on oath to the board of city commissioners and heard by them on five days' notice to such railroad company, such notice to be in writing signed by the city clerk and served by the director of the code enforcement department.
(Code 1975, § 26-8; Code 1985, § 22-5)
State Law reference— Maintenance of grade crossings by railroad, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-190.
