ARTICLE VIII. - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS[18]
Footnotes:
--- (18) ---
Cross reference— City council staff, § 2-151 et seq.; mayor, § 2-176 et seq.; executive branch offices, § 2-231 et seq.; municipal clerk, § 2-266 et seq.; chief financial officer, § 2-341 et seq.; officers and employees, § 2-781 et seq.; personnel, ch. 114.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-841. - Measures for increase of salaries or wages referred to committee on finance.
No increase in the salary or wage of any official or employee shall be made except prior to March 31 in any year and unless the motion or resolution or ordinance providing the increase shall have first been referred to the committee on finance and considered and reported on by that committee. All measures which provide for increases without such reference shall be declared out of order, and if passed without such reference, they shall be ignored and are declared void.
(Code 1977, § 7-4110)
Sec. 2-842. - Deduction from pensioner of certain amounts permitted for active employees.
The chief financial officer is authorized upon request by a person entitled to receive pension benefits to deduct from such payments to the pensioner payments for federal tax, state tax, hospitalization insurance, life insurance, back pension deductions, credit union savings, credit union loans and any other deduction provided active employees of the city, if such deductions are approved by the board of trustees responsible for the disbursement of funds to such pensioner.
(Code 1977, § 7-4097)
Sec. 2-843. - Automobile allowances.
(a)
Employees who occupy positions with established auto allowances shall be compensated for the use of their personal automobiles on city business as follows:
(1)
There shall be paid a monthly mileage reimbursement of $0.325 per mile driven per month on city business.
(2)
An employee with an established auto allowance shall also be reimbursed for all documented parking fees incurred by the employee while away from the employee's principal place of employment.
(b)
Employees who are recalled after their normal working period to deal with an emergency situation and who are not assigned a city-owned vehicle on an overnight basis or who receive an auto allowance may be reimbursed on a monthly basis in an amount of $0.325 per mile for their expense in traveling to and from the emergency location. The amount received shall not exceed $14.00 for each time that an employee is called back.
(c)
Employees who are not assigned a city-owned vehicle and who do not occupy a position with an established automobile allowance may be reimbursed on a monthly basis for their expenses in using their personal automobiles on official city business at the rate of $0.325 per mile traveled.
(d)
It shall be the responsibility of the various department heads to certify to the chief financial officer, on a monthly basis, those city employees entitled to emergency mileage reimbursement and their mileage.
(e)
The committee on finance of the council and the chief financial officer shall make such rules and regulations and provide necessary forms for carrying out the purpose of this section.
(Code 1977, § 7-4112; Ord. No. 2000—32, §§ 1, 2, 5-23-00)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2000-32, § 1, approved May 23, 2000, amended the city's mileage reimbursement rate to read as herein set out. Further, said ordinance, § 2, stated that the city's reimbursement mileage rate will hereinafter be the same as the current IRS reimbursement rate, effective May 1, 2000.
Sec. 2-844. - Credit union deduction from salaries or wages.
The city shall deduct from the salaries or wages of each employee such sums at such intervals as may be authorized by such employee to cover payments to the Atlanta City Employees' Credit Union, and the chief financial officer is authorized to pay the sums so deducted to the Atlanta City Employees' Credit Union.
(Code 1977, § 7-4113)
Sec. 2-845. - Employee suggestion program.
(a)
There is established an employee suggestion program in city government.
(b)
The employee suggestion program will function as follows:
(1)
Compensation shall be granted to city employees who submit eligible suggestions which specify a method to perform city operations better, quicker, easier, safer or for less cost. This compensation will be in the form of either cash or a nonmonetary award. The cash award will be paid as a percentage of the cost savings or revenue gain generated by a suggestion. This award will equal ten percent of the estimated first year's net savings or revenue gain, but no such award shall exceed $500.00 per employee suggestion.
(2)
An employee suggestion committee shall be responsible for determining whether or not a suggestion merits a nonmonetary award or the employee is entitled to cash compensation.
(3)
The suggestion committee shall be composed of members selected from the city's administrative, legislative and service-delivery departments. The mayor or the mayor's designee shall determine the tenure, size and manner in which committee members are chosen. Once constituted, the majority of members will select a chair to preside over the functioning of the committee. The employee suggestion committee shall have the power to adopt those rules which are considered necessary to conduct the committee's business.
(4)
The administrator of the governmental unit responsible for coordinating suggestion program activities shall provide an annual report to the council on the condition and achievements of the program no later than January 31 of the following year.
(Code 1977, § 7-4114)
Sec. 2-846. - Supplemental pension payment.
(a)
Officers and employees who retired or who will retire as a matter of right under the most recent amendment under the provisions of the laws establishing the three pension systems of the city as of the date of their retirement shall be paid a minimum amount per month for each full year of active creditable service. Retirees of the city shall be paid a minimum of $12.00 per month for each full year of active creditable service. Beneficiaries of these pensioners shall be paid $9.00 per month for each full year of active creditable service of the officer or employee. Retirees of the city board of education shall be paid a minimum of $17.00 per month for each full year of active creditable service. Beneficiaries of these pensioners shall be paid $12.75 per month for each full year of active creditable service of the officer or employee. However, if the normal monthly pension benefit payable to a former officer or employee or the beneficiary of such officer or employee was reduced at the time of retirement due to the fact that applicable age requirements were not met, the minimum monthly amounts specified in this section shall be reduced by the same percentage as the normal monthly pension benefit was reduced at the time of retirement. For purposes of this section, active creditable service for an employee or officer who was granted a disability in-line-of-duty pension from the police officers' or firefighters' pension funds prior to April 1, 1964, or from the general employees' pension fund prior to April 17, 1973, shall be set at a minimum of 25 years. The records kept in the department of finance, employee benefits division, shall be conclusive as to time served.
(b)
Increased pension benefits payable to former officers and employees under this section shall be reduced in an amount equivalent to the total pension supplement paid directly to such former officer or employee by the state teacher's retirement system under O.C.G.A. tit. 47, ch. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 47-3-1 et seq.).
(c)
As to former members, officers and employees of the city and their dependents, such increased benefits payable under this section shall be paid from the general fund of the city. With respect to those former members, officers and employees of the board of education and their dependents, such increased benefits, as provided in this section, shall not be paid from the general fund of the city, but shall be paid, if at all, from monies appropriated by the board of education and paid to the city for the purpose of making such payments to the former members, officers and employees of the board of education.
(Code 1977, §§ 7-4098(g), 7-4098.3(a), (c))
Charter reference— Pension plan modifications, § 3-507.
Sec. 2-847. - 1985 supplemental cost-of-living pension payment.
(a)
Monthly pension payments due to former officers and employees who have retired as a matter of right prior to April 1, 1978, under the laws establishing the three pension systems of the city, that is 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167 et seq., as amended; 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265 et seq., as amended; and 1933 Ga. Laws, page 213 et seq., as amended, and beneficiaries of pensioners who retired as a matter of right prior to April 1, 1978, shall be increased effective January 1 of each year by an amount equivalent to three percent of the sum of the monthly pension payment being received from any of the three pension systems, together with any monthly amounts being received under any previously enacted supplemental pension payment ordinances and any previously enacted supplemental cost-of-living pension payment ordinances.
(b)
This section shall not be effective to or be construed to confer eligibility for a pension upon any former officer or employee who was not eligible for a pension under the provisions of the acts set forth in subsection (a) of this section in effect on the date of the retirement, resignation or other withdrawal from service of such former officer or employee.
(c)
As to former officers and employees of the city and their beneficiaries, such increased benefits shall be implemented only to the extent that moneys are appropriated from the general fund of the city to support these increased benefits. With respect to those former officers and employees of the board of education and their beneficiaries, such increased benefits, as provided in this section, shall not be paid from the general fund of the city, but shall be paid, if at all, from moneys appropriated by the board of education and paid to the city for the purpose of making such payments to the former officers and employees of the board of education and their beneficiaries.
(Code 1977, § 7-4098.8)
Charter reference— Pension plan modifications, § 3-507.
Sec. 2-848. - Additional group life insurance.
(a)
In addition to the group life insurance provided for, the mayor and council are authorized to contract for additional group life insurance sufficient to provide a maximum of $10,000.00 on the life of each officer or employee who was employed by the city as of May 31, 1967, in such groups and in such classifications as the mayor and council deems proper, provided that the payment by the officer or employee shall not exceed $0.70 per $1,000.00 per month. The balance of the cost required to pay for such group insurance shall be paid by the city. No officer or employee shall be compelled to take such additional insurance, but if the officer or employee voluntarily elects to do so the chief financial officer shall be authorized to deduct the contributions of such officer or employee from the salary or wages of the officer or employee so insured. However, subsequent to May 31, 1967, no officer or employee shall be allowed to come under the group life insurance plan providing only a maximum of $10,000.00 on the life of each officer or employee.
(b)
In addition to the group life insurance provided for in subsection (a) of this section, the mayor and council, with respect to those officers or employees who are employed by the city on or subsequent to June 1, 1967, are authorized to contract for additional group life insurance in such amounts as the mayor and council may from time to time determine on the life of each officer or employee in such groups and in such classifications as the mayor and council deems proper, provided the payment by the officer or employee shall not exceed $0.70 per $1,000.00 per month. The balance of the cost required to pay for such group insurance shall be paid by the city. No officer or employee shall be compelled to take such additional insurance, but if the officer or employee voluntarily elects to do so the chief financial officer shall be authorized to deduct the contributions of such officer or employee from the salary or wages of the officer or employee so insured if the officer or employee is an employee of the city, and the board of education is authorized to deduct the contributions of its employees. Any officer or employee, employed as of May 31, 1967, may voluntarily elect to come under the group life insurance plan, as provided for in this subsection, and contributions shall be deducted as set forth in this subsection; provided, however, that such officer or employee making such election shall not be permitted thereafter to continue in the group life insurance plan providing a maximum of $10,000.00 upon the life of each officer or employee, as set forth in subsection (a) of this section.
(Code 1977, § 7-4101)
Sec. 2-849. - Annual appropriation for group life insurance.
The mayor and council are required to make an appropriation annually sufficient to cover the difference in the amount paid by the employee and the amount due the insurance company for the group life insurance plan.
(Code 1977, § 7-4103)
Sec. 2-850. - Health insurance.
(a)
The mayor and council are authorized to contract for group health and dental plans, either or both, for the benefit of city employees, in such groups or classifications as the mayor and council deem proper, and are authorized to contribute to the cost of such insurance. No employee shall be compelled to take such insurance, but if the employee voluntarily elects to do so, the chief financial officer shall be authorized to deduct the employee's contribution from the salary or wages of the employee so insured.
(b)
Officers and employees will become eligible for the group health and dental benefits after 90 days of continuous service; however, officers and employees may, at total cost, without city contribution, purchase coverage under the city group health and dental benefit plans which are adopted by the city.
(c)
Officers and employees shall cease to be eligible to participate in the group health and dental benefit plans upon separation or termination from the city. Retirees may continue to be covered under group health and dental plans, provided that such plans are adopted by the city. Surviving spouses and dependent children may continue to be covered under group health and dental plans, provided that such plans are adopted by the city.
(d)
Participants in the group health and dental plans may terminate their participation in the plans only during the annual open enrollment period.
(e)
Any intentional false statement, deception or fraud in the enrollment application for the group health and dental coverage will result in the loss of eligibility to participate in the group health and dental benefit plans.
(Code 1977, § 7-4104)
Sec. 2-851. - Personal accident insurance.
The mayor and council, with respect to those officers or employees who are required or who elect to come under the group life insurance plans as set forth in section 2-848, are authorized to contract for group personal accident insurance in the like amounts, as provided for the benefit of the officers or employees, or in such groups or classifications as the mayor and council may deem proper. The payment of not more than $0.70 per $1,000.00 per month, by the officers or employees, as provided for in section 2-848, shall include both group life insurance and group personal accident insurance. The balance of the cost required to pay such group personal accident insurance shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1977, § 7-4105)
Sec. 2-852. - Continuance of life, health and dental insurance while on leave of absence.
City officers and employees may continue their group life insurance and group health and dental benefits insurance, if they so desire, while on leave of absence from the employ of the city, provided that such leave of absence is granted for one of the following reasons:
(1)
Military leave of absence.
(2)
Maternity leave of absence.
(3)
Sick leave of absence.
(4)
Study leave of absence.
(Code 1977, § 7-4106)
Sec. 2-853. - Persons ineligible to receive group life insurance.
Officers and employees employed on a casual or temporary basis with the city are not eligible for group life insurance.
(Code 1977, § 7-4107)
Sec. 2-854. - Dependent's life insurance.
In addition to other group life insurance provided for in section 2-848, the mayor and council are authorized to contract for group life insurance on the dependents of officers and employees in such amounts as provided for in the respective insurance plans, for the benefit of officers and employees, or in such amounts as the mayor and council may from time to time deem proper, provided that the full payment for dependent's life insurance shall be contributed by such officers and employees who elect coverage for their dependents. No officer or employee shall be compelled to take such additional insurance on dependents, but if the officer or employee elects to do so the chief financial officer shall be authorized to deduct the contributions of such officer or employee so insured if the officer or employee is an employee of the city.
(Code 1977, § 7-4108)
Sec. 2-855. - Employees' scholarship fund.
(a)
The term "employees of the city," for the purpose of this section, means all of those officers and employees who have been regularly employed by the city for a period of not less than six months.
(b)
There is established, to be funded from the general revenues of the city, a scholarship fund to assist city employees who desire to begin or further their formal education.
(c)
This fund shall be administered in accordance with a plan to be adopted by the mayor and council by ordinance. The mayor and council may amend the plan from time to time as the mayor and council may deem necessary.
(Code 1977, § 7-4109)
Sec. 2-856. - Payment as witnesses.
(a)
Effect on pay. When officers or employees are subpoenaed on behalf of the city as witnesses in any court and are absent from duty because thereof, no deduction shall be made in pay.
(b)
Witness fee when city is party. It shall be unlawful for the officers charged with the duties of auditing and paying bills or accounts against the city to audit, allow or pay any bill or claim for witness fees in favor of any officer or employee of the city or any department thereof in any case to which the city is a plaintiff or defendant, when the officer or employee serving as witness is already paid a salary or per diem wages equal to or greater than the witness fees allowed by law and when such officer or employee has not lost time or been docked in regular pay for loss of time, which would otherwise have been paid for because of attendance at court as a witness for or against the city in any such case. However, it shall be lawful for any such auditing or paying officer to audit or pay any such bill or claim in any case in obedience to an order of the court having jurisdiction thereof. In such case no penalty shall follow obedience to the order of the court.
(Code 1977, § 7-3018)
Sec. 2-857. - Reimbursement of convention, conference, training, travel and other expenses.
(a)
City employees who attend conventions and training conferences representing the city or who travel in an official capacity shall be reimbursed for all or a portion of the expenses incurred in connection therewith as follows:
(1)
Cost of hotel or lodging accommodation expenses incurred per person for each day of the conference or convention being attended or for each day of the business trip being attended in an amount not to exceed lodging rate for the primary destination as noted on the General Services Administration (GSA) website (www.gsa.gov/perdiem) or designated convention hotel rate for the city being visited.
(2)
All registration fees.
(3)
Cost of coach air fare or other common public transportation by the most direct route from the city to the city where the convention, the training or the business is being transacted.
(4)
Meals and incidental expenses for the primary destination as noted on the GSA website (www.gsa.gov/perdiem) to be applied for each full day of the convention, the training or the business being transacted.
(5)
Meals and incidental expenses for the first and last day of travel will be reimbursed at 75 percent of the rate noted above (Subpart B Section 301-11.101 of the GSA code).
(6)
Taxi or commuter bus fares between the airport or station and your hotel and between the hotel and your business meeting place are reimbursable if a printed receipt is provided in accordance to the City of Atlanta's Travel and Expense Reimbursement Policy.
(7)
If a privately owned vehicle (POV) is utilized in lieu of travel by air or other common carrier, the reimbursement mileage rate for privately owned vehicles shall be consistent with the rate set by GSA (www.gsa.gov POV Mileage Reimbursement Rates) . This reimbursement must be supported by odometer readings or printed digital driving maps or other mileage tracking system reports in accordance to the City of Atlanta's Reimbursement Policy.
(8)
If a POV is not available and it is more economical than travel by air or other common carrier, a compact or smaller rental car may be utilized for travel. Requests for a rental car must be approved by the department head before the rental reservation is made.
(b)
Requests for convention, training or travel expenses shall be approved in advance by the mayor or designee; provided, however, for judges, solicitors and members of their staffs, such requests shall be approved in advance by the chief judge.
(c)
Requests for convention, training and travel expenses shall be approved in advance as to the availability of funds by the department head.
(d)
An itemized expense account (I-Expense) shall be prepared by the employee attending the convention, training or traveling on business of the city, in accordance to the City of Atlanta Reimbursement Policy within seven days of the return from the convention, training or business trip.
(e)
It is specifically declared that the reimbursement of expenses, to the amount set forth in this section, incurred by department heads or employees when attending various meetings and conventions outside the city in an official capacity is in no way intended, to be any form of compensation to that department head or employee, as long as the reimbursement does not exceed the amount authorized by GSA.
(f)
Employees will be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenditures incurred while performing official business of the city. Official business shall be defined as when a city official or employee acts in an official capacity to perform official duties on behalf of the city. The city's official business does not include an activity or event done solely for the personal benefit of an individual official or employee, such as a political campaign activity, a private business transaction, or an event sponsored by a private, social or non-city group.
Allowable expenses include:
Communicating with representatives of local, regional, state and national governments on City of Atlanta adopted policy positions
Participating in local, regional, state and national organizations whose activities affect the City of Atlanta interest
Recognizing service to the City of Atlanta
Membership dues are not an authorized expenditure except for memberships in those governmental, professional associations, and/or certifications related to employment with the city in which the city's memberships extends to its officials.
(g)
Acceptable receipts include: 1) Original receipts, which include vendor name, location, date and dollar amount, 2) copy of credit card itemized receipt or credit/debit card billing statement, 3) electronic ticket receipt.
Unacceptable receipts include those from a "receipt or guest book" or handmade receipts.
(h)
Charitable contributions are not a reimbursable expense. If donations need to be made to a qualified organization for a valid business purpose, they must be processed as a payment directly to the third party through accounts payable. Donations made on behalf of position with the City of Atlanta must be requested through accounts payable as a disbursement request for donation to be paid on COA check stock. The public purpose must be documented on the disbursement request. At no time should charitable contributions be made directly to a third party nonprofit organization.
The Internal Revenue Service defines qualified organizations as nonprofit groups that are religious, charitable, educational, scientific, or literary in purpose, or that work to prevent cruelty to children or animals.
(i)
This section does not apply to members of the council or municipal clerk or their employees.
(j)
Subsection (a)(4) of this section regarding travel by coach air or common public transportation does not apply to the mayor.
(k)
The chief financial officer is responsible for establishing policies and procedures regarding City of Atlanta Travel and Expense Reimbursements in accordance with IRS Publication 463. These Policies and Procedures (P&P) will be posted online on the city website along with links to appropriate GSA websites. This P&P document will be the primary guide for all City of Atlanta Employees to adhere to regarding travel, training and expense reimbursements. The chief financial officer will ensure that the document is up to date with the latest policy or regulation changes per IRS regulations.
(Code 1977, § 5-2020; Ord. No. 2007-12 (07-O-0272), § 1, 3-13-07; Ord. No. 2017-66(17-O-1642), § 2, 11-6-17 )
Sec. 2-858. - Domestic partnership benefits.
A city employee may apply for and obtain health and dental insurance benefits for a person registered as his or her domestic partner under chapter 94, article V hereof upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Definitions:
a.
"Dependent" and "dependency" defined .
1.
As used with regard to domestic partnership benefits, the term "dependent" shall mean one who relies on another for financial support. Dependency does not depend on whether the dependent could support himself/herself without the supporter's earnings or whether the dependent could so reduce his/her expenses such that he/she could live independently of the supporter's earnings. Dependency does not depend on whether the dependent is employed and/or earns a substantial part of his/her own support. Dependency depends on whether the dependent was and is supported, in whole or in part, by the supporter's earnings.
2.
An employee's domestic partner shall be deemed a "dependent" of the employee if:
i.
The employee makes contributions to the domestic partner of cash and supplies, and the domestic partner relies upon and uses those contributions to support himself/herself in order to maintain his or her standard of living. The contributions may be at irregular intervals and of irregular amounts, but must have existed for at least six months, and must be continuing.
ii.
The employee is obligated, based upon his/her commitment set forth in the declaration of domestic partnership, to continue the financial support of the domestic partner for so long as the domestic partnership shall be in effect.
iii.
The domestic partner is supported, in whole or in part, by the employee's earnings, and has been for at least the last six months.
b.
"Affidavit of financial reliance" defined. An "affidavit of financial reliance" is a form, provided by the city business license office, upon request, to any city employee who has a domestic partner and who has received a certificate of domestic partnership, as is set forth under chapter 94, article V hereof. The form shall state the definition of "dependent," as is set forth in subsection (1)a.1 above. The form shall require the employee and his/her domestic partner to attest that the domestic partner is a dependent of the employee. The form shall require the employee and his/her domestic partner to attest that each of the requirements set forth in subsection (1)a.2 above are met when the affidavit of financial reliance is signed. The form shall also require the employee and his/her domestic partner to agree to notify the department of personnel and human resources and the employee benefits division of the department of finance, in writing, within 30 days, if the domestic partners no longer meet all of the requirements set forth in subsection (1)a.2 above. The form must be signed by the employee and his/her domestic partner, under penalty of perjury, and must be witnessed and notarized. The business license office shall, within 30 days of the effective date of this section, make such forms available.
c.
"Dependency tax questionnaire" defined. A "dependency tax questionnaire" is a form, provided by the city business license office to each employee who requests an affidavit of financial reliance form. The dependency tax questionnaire shall state that the value of the city's contributions toward the payment of the domestic partner's health and dental insurance premiums are taxable income to the employee if the employee's domestic partner does not receive more than 50 percent of his/her "support" (as defined by the Internal Revenue Service) from the employee. The questionnaire shall require the employee and the employee's domestic partner to check one of two statements which applies to them, either that the domestic partner receives more than 50 percent of his/her support from the employee or the domestic partner does not receive more than 50 percent of his/her support from the employee. The questionnaire shall be signed by the employee and his/her domestic partner. The business license office shall, within 30 days of the effective date of this section, make such questionnaires available.
(2)
Sick leave, funeral leave, and annual leave benefits. An employee who has filed a sworn affidavit of domestic partnership with the business license division in accordance with chapter 94, article V hereof, and who has received a certificate of domestic partnership, may file a copy of that certificate with the department of personnel and human resources and with the employee benefits division of the department of finance, for the purpose of city sick leave, funeral leave, and annual leave benefits.
(3)
Filing of affidavit of financial reliance. An employee eligible to receive city health and dental insurance benefits, who has filed a copy of his/her certificate of domestic partnership with the department of personnel and human resources and with the employee benefits division of the department of finance may also file an affidavit of financial reliance with those departments (original to employee benefits division and a copy to the department of personnel), for the purpose of obtaining city health and dental insurance coverage for the employee's domestic partner. The affidavit of financial reliance must be filed within 31 days of the domestic partners' receipt of their certificate of domestic partnership, or during an open enrollment period.
(4)
Entitlement to insurance benefits; effective date. Any city employee who requests health and dental insurance benefits for his/her domestic partner pursuant to subsection (3) above, shall receive such benefits, provided that the employee shall pay 25 percent of the domestic partner's insurance premiums and city shall pay 75 percent of the domestic partner's insurance premiums. However, if the employee is required to pay 100 percent of his/her health and dental insurance premiums, the employee shall pay 100 percent of the health and dental insurance premiums of his/her domestic partner. Health and dental insurance benefits shall be extended to domestic partners effective January 1, 1997.
(5)
Filing of dependency tax questionnaire. Every employee who files an affidavit of financial reliance with the employee benefits division of the department of finance shall also file his or her original dependency tax questionnaire with the employee benefits division of the department of finance. If the questionnaire states that the employee's domestic partner does not receive more than 50 percent of his/her support from the employee, the value of the city's contributions toward the domestic partner's insurance premiums shall be added to the employee's income for taxation purposes only. The employee and his/her domestic partner shall file a new dependency tax questionnaire, with the employee benefits division of the department of finance, within 30 days of a change of financial status which would change the answer provided on their current dependency tax questionnaire.
(6)
Notice of change of conditions; penalties. Any employee who receives insurance coverage for a domestic partner shall notify the employee benefits division within 30 days of any change in or termination of the domestic partnership, or if the employee's domestic partner is no longer a dependent of the employee, as is set forth in their affidavit of financial reliance. Any employee who fraudulently obtains coverage for a person who is in fact not a domestic partner, as defined under chapter 94, article V hereof, or for a domestic partner who is not in fact a dependent of the employee, as is set forth in subsection (1)a above, shall reimburse the city for any costs involved in providing such coverage and be subject to criminal penalties as provided by the laws of the State of Georgia and the City of Atlanta.
(Code 1977, § 5-9008; Ord. No. 1996-70, § 2)
Cross reference— Domestic partnerships generally, § 94-131 et seq.
Sec. 2-859. - Employees who have not designated a spouse to receive benefits.
(a)
For purposes of eligibility for city benefits including, but not necessarily limited to health and dental insurance, each city employee who is unmarried and does not have a registered domestic partner, and who has no other dependent, may designate one dependent who shall be eligible for benefits coverage and treatment to the same extent as a regular dependent of a city employee.
(b)
That for purposes of such coverage, a designated dependent shall be defined as any person, not otherwise covered by city ordinances, whom the employee may claim as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(c)
That the employee shall pay full premium costs associated with coverage for designated dependent.
(Ord. No. 1993-80, §§ 1—3, 10-21-93)
Editor's note— Sections 1—3 of Ord. No. 1993-80, approved October 21, 1993, did not specifically amend this Code and were adopted prior to adoption of this Code; however, they have been included at the city's request and, at the editor's discretion, added as § 2-859.
Sec. 2-860. - Open enrollment.
The chief financial officer shall complete open enrollment for employee benefits for the upcoming calendar year no later than the fifth working day in the month of November of the current year.
(Ord. No. 2005-14, § 1, 2-28-05)
Secs. 2-861—2-875. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - OLD-AGE AND SURVIVORS INSURANCE FOR BOARD OF EDUCATION[19]

Footnotes:
--- (19) ---
State Law reference— Social security for public employees, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.; local plans for coverage, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-40 et seq.

Sec. 2-876. - Extension to employees and officials.
It is declared to be the policy and purposes of the city to extend at the earliest date possible under the agreement entered into by the state and the Federal Social Security Administration, to the employees and officials of the city board of education not excluded by law, the benefits of the system of old-age and survivors insurance as authorized by the federal social security act, the state enabling act and amendments thereto. In pursuance to this policy and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1977, § 5-2101)
Sec. 2-877. - Authority to make agreements with state employees' retirement system.
The mayor authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the state employees' retirement system as provided for in section 28-76, not to include any employees who are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner provided by state law.
(Code 1977, § 5-2102)
Sec. 2-878. - Salary withholdings.
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in this division are authorized in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(Code 1977, § 5-2103)
Sec. 2-879. - Appropriation for funds.
There shall be appropriated from the general fund of the board of education such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal law or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses and a guaranty fund to ensure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in section 2-877. Such funds shall be paid over to the state employees' retirement system in accordance with regulations established by such agency.
(Code 1977, § 5-2104)
Sec. 2-880. - Records and reports.
For the purposes of this division, the city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1977, § 5-2105)
Sec. 2-881. - Exclusion.
There is excluded from this division any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1977, § 5-2106)
Secs. 2-882—2-905. - Reserved.
