CHAPTER 32D. - NC-4 CHESHIRE BRIDGE ROAD NORTH NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 16-32D.001. - Scope of provisions.
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this part, when referred to in this chapter, are the regulations for the NC-4 Cheshire Bridge Road North Neighborhood Commercial District. The general NC district regulations shall apply to this NC-4 district except where said NC-4 district regulations conflict with the general NC regulations, said NC-4 regulations shall apply.
(Ord. No. 2005-31, ยง 1, 1-10-05)
Sec. 16-32D.002. - Specific regulations.
The following regulations are specific to the NC-4 Cheshire Bridge Road North Neighborhood Commercial District.
1.
Permitted Principal Uses: Parking structures and lots to serve primary uses within the district.
2.
Special Use Permits: Retail establishments between 8,000 square feet and 15,000 square feet in floor area.
3.
Special Administrative Permits:
a.
Variations in street tree requirements. Variations are subject to constraints such as overhead or underground utilities.
b.
Demolition and relocation of existing retail establishments that exceed 8,000 square feet into a new structure, provided that there is no increase in total floor area of the establishment.
4.
Street furniture and tree planting zone: Along Cheshire Bridge Road the street furniture and tree planting zone shall be landscaped except where on-street parking is provided, and shall have a minimum width of ten feet adjacent to curb. On-street parking may be placed in the street furniture zone, provided that street trees are installed in bulb-outs located at intervals within the area used for on-street parking, as approved by the Bureau of Planning.
5.
Outdoor dining within required sidewalk: outdoor dining may encroach into the sidewalk clear zone provided the following criteria are met:
a.
Shall have a minimum of 8 feet wide of unobstructed sidewalk clear zone area when located adjacent to the street furniture and tree planting zone;
b.
No permanent structure or ornamentation shall be located within the area where encroachment is permitted and no element shall be attached to the sidewalk in any way;
c.
At such time as the outdoor dining use is discontinued, sidewalks shall comply with all requirements of this Chapter; and
d.
Outdoor dining may be separated from the sidewalk only with movable planters, fencing or similar non-fixed barriers provided they do not exceed a height of 36 inches including any plant material.
6.
Minimum Off-street Parking Requirements:
a.
Banks and similar institutions: One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
b.
Clothing and tailor shops: One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
c.
Laundry and dry cleaning pick-up stations and coin operated laundromats: One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
d.
Retail establishments, including catering, delicatessen and bakeries, but not other uses as provided below. One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
e.
Sales and repair establishments for home appliances, bicycles, lawn mowers, shoes, clocks and watches, and the like: One space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
(Ord. No. 2005-31, ยง 1, 1-10-05)
