Chapter 86 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Health powers of city, § 1-102(c)(21), (29).
Cross reference— Clean city commission, § 2-1876 et seq.; mayor's committee on drug control, § 2-1956 et seq.; animals, ch. 18; food establishments, § 30-691 et seq.; cemeteries, ch. 38; environment, ch. 74; social services, ch. 126; solid waste, ch. 130; sewage disposal, § 154-196 et seq.
Land development code reference— Swimming pools, § 8-2078.
Related laws reference— Health and sanitation, ch. 5.
State Law reference— Constitutional grant of home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; specific constitutional grant of powers relative to public health facilities and services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); statutory grant of home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; health generally, O.C.G.A. § 31-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 86-1. - Toilets on trains.
(a)
All railroad and sleeping car companies running cars into the city shall keep their toilets securely locked and shall not permit them to be used by anyone while the cars are within the city limits; provided, however, that those toilets may be opened for use while the cars are standing in a station, if they are provided with proper watertight, flyproof receptacles of a design approved by the director, bureau of sanitary services which are properly kept in place. The toilets so used shall be served by the bureau of sanitary services at times and places specified by the director for the removal of excrement.
(b)
Responsibility for failure to comply with this section shall be upon the persons operating trains and the persons having control of the tracks, together with all the officers, employees and agents of persons operating railroads who have it within their power or authority to comply or to enforce compliance with this section, and any of these persons may be convicted and punished for violation of this section.
(Code 1977, §§ 14-10012, 14-10013)
Sec. 86-2. - Adoption of regulations promulgated by Fulton County board of health and DeKalb County board of health.
The regulations promulgated by the Fulton County board of health are adopted by the city to apply in those portions of the city lying within Fulton County and to apply outside the city on any property owned by the city for airport purposes. The regulations promulgated by the DeKalb County board of health are adopted by the city to be applied in that section of the city lying within DeKalb County.
(Code 1977, §§ 9-6002, 14-7001)
Sec. 86-3. - Disposition of bodies of unidentified persons.
(a)
Removal to hospital. Any unidentified person who shall die in the city, whose relatives are unknown by the person assuming to take charge of the body, shall be immediately removed to Grady Hospital, where the dead body shall be placed in a room subject to the orders of the medical examiner of Fulton County or DeKalb County, whichever has jurisdiction of the body.
(b)
Examination of remains. The authorities of Grady Hospital shall, on receipt of the remains, examine them for identification, place all effects in a proper receptacle and hold the body for a period of eight hours, awaiting identification by relatives.
(c)
Notice to police. Immediately upon the receipt of the dead body, the superintendent of Grady Hospital shall notify the department of police if it appears that the department has not been previously advised. The department shall immediately make fingerprints of the deceased person and use the prints in an effort to effect the person's identification. The department of police shall record carefully every mark of identification which may be found on the dead body and make a permanent record thereof. The personal description so far as ascertainable shall be entered, which shall include the weight, height, the color of hair, the sex, the race and any other feature which might aid in identification.
(d)
Delivery to funeral director. Except as otherwise ordered by the medical examiner, if the body should not be identified and claimed by relatives within eight hours, the remains shall be under the direction of the medical examiner, and at the direction of the medical examiner the remains shall be sent to a reputable funeral directing establishment in the city by the hospital authorities for the purpose of embalming and preservation of the remains.
(e)
Autopsies. No autopsies or postmortems are to be held on the remains of the person, except upon the order of the medical examiner or upon the written order of the nearest of kin, and then only when the order shall have the approval of the medical examiner.
(f)
Surrender of remains. The remains shall not be surrendered by the hospital to any funeral director, except as provided in this section, for the purpose of embalming, except upon the written order of the medical examiner or upon written order of the next of kin delivered to the hospital with the written approval of the medical examiner.
(Code 1977, § 14-7002)
State Law reference— Georgia Death Investigation Act, O.C.G.A. § 45-16-20 et seq.
Sec. 86-4. - Noise zone around hospitals, surgi-centers.
(a)
Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the term "surgi-center" means a medical facility that provides surgical services to patients who do not require overnight hospital care. The term "hospice" means a facility that provides housing, medical and emotional assistance to the terminally ill.
(b)
Established. The streets in front of or surrounding hospitals, sanitariums, surgi-centers and hospices shall have what is known as a noise zone within a distance of 300 feet of the grounds thereof, in all directions. Where signs are erected along the street within a distance of 300 feet of the grounds of the hospital, sanitarium, surgi-center or hospice in all directions, this shall constitute the noise zone, whether these signs are erected by the city or by the authorities in charge of the hospitals, sanitariums, surgi-centers or hospices.
(c)
Quiet to be maintained. It shall be unlawful for any person within a noise zone around a hospital, sanitarium, surgi-center or hospice to cry out the sale of wares therein, to use whistles, radios or other noise-making devices, to drive any vehicle at such rate of speed as shall create a disturbing noise, to drive any motor vehicle with the muffler cutout open or to make or cause to be made any loud noise in any manner whatsoever.
(Code 1977, § 14-7005; Ord. No. 1997-37, § 1, 6-18-97)
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 106.
Sec. 86-5. - Condemnation, disposal of decayed fruit, meat, other food.
(a)
Duty of sanitation inspectors. It shall be the duty of the sanitation inspectors to condemn and require to be sent out of the city as garbage, by the owner or person in possession thereof, under direction of the director, bureau of sanitary services, all decayed or stale melons, fruits and vegetables and all unsound, tainted, offensive or unwholesome meats, fish, poultry, game or other articles of food kept or stored in any box or refrigerator, held or offered for sale at any of the fruit stands, stores or markets in the city or offered for sale from any car on any of the railroad tracks in the city.
(b)
Violations. Any merchant, trader, dealer or other person who shall refuse to allow the sanitation inspectors opportunity to inspect such person's stock of melons, fruits, vegetables and meats, fish, poultry, game or foodstuffs of any kind or who shall, when any of this stock is condemned, refuse to remove it from the city as garbage shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Code 1977, § 14-7006)
State Law reference— Food generally, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-1 et seq.
Sec. 86-6. - Duty of owner to clean property; violations; penalties.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant of any lot or tract of land to allow the accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, debris or discarded articles or materials or to allow the excessive growth of grass, weeds or vines on any such lot or tract of land.
(b)
Should any owner or tenant fail to completely clean and clear the premises within 14 days from the date of receipt of a notice of violation, such owner or tenant shall be charged with a violation of this section, and if convicted shall be punished by a fine of not less than $500.00.
(c)
The notice required in subsection (b) above, shall be delivered personally or by certified mail.
(d)
No notice shall be required for repeated violations of this code section at the same location in which case the owner or tenant may be charged with a violation of this section and a citation may be immediately issued.
(e)
If the owner or tenant of a lot or tract of land has been found charged and convicted in violation of this code section within the immediately preceding twelve month period at the same location, such owner or tenant shall be punished by a fine of $1,000.00.
(Code 1977, § 14-7091; Ord. No. 1998-79, § 1, 11-9-98)
Charter reference— Authority relative to nuisances, § 1-102(c)(30).
Cross reference— Solid waste, ch. 130; vegetation, ch. 158.
Land development code references— Commercial, institutional and building maintenance code, § 8-2079 et seq.; housing code, § 8-2221 et seq.
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; municipal nuisance abatement, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Secs. 86-7—86-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - INDOOR AIR[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Smoking at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International, § 22-68; businesses, ch. 30; environment, ch. 74; smoking on MARTA buses, trains and rail cars, § 106-8; smoking in certain areas within city buildings and facilities, § 106-9.

Sec. 86-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bar means:
(1)
An enclosed area which is primarily devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages, wine, malt beverages and/or distilled spirits, for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is only incidental to the consumption of such beverages; and
(2)
Any adult entertainment premises as defined in this Code.
Although a food service establishment may contain a bar, the term "bar" shall not include the food service establishment dining area. The terms "wine," "malt beverages" and "distilled spirits" are defined in section 10-1.
Designated smoking area:
(1)
In a food service establishment means an area of contiguous seating where smoking is permitted and which:
a.
Is situated so existing barriers and ventilation systems are used to minimize the toxic effects of smoke;
b.
Is marked by appropriate signs; and
c.
Does not include service lines or cashier areas.
(2)
In all other areas means any enclosed indoor area in which smoking is permitted. Such smoking area shall be clearly designated and separate from any area in which smoking is not permitted. In a place of employment, the designated smoking area shall be separated from a smoke-free work area by floor-to-ceiling walls or ventilation technology effective in reducing the effects of smoke on the smoke-free area other than portable air cleaning devices; provided, however, that no restrooms or employee lounges shall be "designated smoking areas."
Dining area means any enclosed area containing a counter or tables upon which food is served.
Employer means any person who employs one or more persons, including the legislative, executive and judicial branches of city government.
Food service establishment means any establishment for the preparation and serving of meals, lunches, short orders, sandwiches, frozen desserts or other edible products. The term includes restaurants, coffee shops, cafeterias, short-order cafes, luncheonettes, taverns, lunchrooms, places which manufacture retail sandwiches, soda fountains, institutional cafeterias, both public and private, food carts, industrial cafeterias, both public and private, food carts, industrial cafeterias, catering establishments, food vending vehicles and operations connected therewith, and similar facilities by whatever name called. The term "food service establishment" shall not mean an establishment which does not provide seating or facilities for consumption of food on premises or a "food sales establishment" shall not include any dining area located within a health care, educational or child care facility. Food courts within enclosed shopping malls shall be treated as food service establishments under this article. When determining food service establishment seating capacity, outdoor seating will not be included in the total number.
Health department means the Fulton County health department.
Place of employment means any enclosed area under the control of a public or private employer which employees frequent during the course of employment including, but not limited to, work areas, restrooms, employee lounges, conference and meeting rooms, lobbies and reception areas.
(1)
A private residence is not a "place of employment" unless it is used as a child care facility or a health care facility.
(2)
The dining area of a food service establishment shall not be treated as a "place of employment" under this article.
Public place means any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which the public is permitted, including, but not limited to, restaurants, stores, offices, waiting rooms, lobbies, public transit, restrooms, enclosed shopping malls, educational, recreational and health care facilities, child care facilities, auditoriums, theaters, sports arenas, service lines, airports, and meeting rooms. A private residence is not a "public place" unless it is used as a child care facility or a health care facility.
Retail tobacco store means a retail store in which the sale of tobacco products designed for smoking comprises more than 50 percent of its receipts.
Service line means any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service involves the exchange of money.
Smoking means inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or other smoking equipment in any manner or form.
Sports arena means enclosed sports pavilions, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys and other similar places where members of the general public assemble either to engage in physical exercise, participate in athletic competition or witness sports events.
Tobacco business means a sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership, or other enterprise in which the primary activity is the sale, manufacture or promotion of tobacco, tobacco products or accessories, and in which the sale, manufacture or promotion of other products is merely incidental.
Work area means an area in a place of employment where one or more employees are routinely assigned and perform services for their employer.
(Code 1977, § 9-8001)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 86-32. - Regulation of smoking.
(a)
Smoking in public places. Except as otherwise provided in this article, smoking is prohibited in all public places within all of Fulton County.
(b)
Smoking in places of employment. Except as otherwise provided in this article, smoking in all places of employment is prohibited in the following manner:
(1)
Smoking shall be prohibited in auditoriums, gymnasiums, rest rooms, elevators, classrooms, hallways, employee medical facilities and rooms or areas which contain photocopying equipment or other office equipment used in common, and in company vehicles occupied by more than one person unless the occupants of such vehicle agree that smoking may be permitted.
(2)
Smoking shall be prohibited in conference rooms and meeting rooms, unless everyone in that room agrees that smoking may be permitted.
(3)
Notwithstanding the prohibitions in subsections (1) and (2) of this section, employers in places of employment shall:
a.
Provide nonsmoking employees with a smoke-free work area.
b.
Provide for contiguous nonsmoking areas in employee cafeterias and lunch rooms. The contiguous nonsmoking areas in employee cafeterias and lunchrooms shall be sufficient to meet employee demand. An employer may not determine that no such demand exists.
c.
Not be required to make any expenditures or structural changes to create a smoke-free work area. If an employer cannot, after using its best efforts, comply with an employees' request for a smoke-free work area, the employer shall designate that employee's work area as a smoke-free work area.
(Code 1977, § 9-8002)
Sec. 86-33. - Exceptions.
The regulations of smoking pursuant to this article shall not apply in the following areas:
(1)
Private homes, private residences, and private automobiles.
(2)
Bars.
(3)
Hotel and motel rooms rented to guests, except for those rooms designated by such hotels and motels as no-smoking rooms.
(4)
Retail tobacco stores and tobacco businesses.
(5)
A designated smoking area in a food service establishment, provided that such designated smoking area shall not comprise more than 50 percent of a food service establishment's seating capacity.
(6)
A designated smoking area in place of employment, except that no designated smoking area shall be permitted in any health care or child facility.
(7)
Work areas in any place of employment so long as:
a.
The work area is exclusively occupied by smokers;
b.
Everyone in the work area reaches an agreement that smoking may be permitted;
c.
The work area is subject to regular entrance by the public or nonsmokers; and
d.
The work area is separate from a smoke-free work area by floor-to-ceiling walls or some other means, equally effective in reducing the effects of smoke on the smoke-free work area, other than portable air cleaning devices.
(8)
A designated smoking area in a public place.
(9)
Banquet or meeting rooms when these rooms are being used for private functions.
(10)
Persons residing within long-term care facilities, as that terms is defined by state law, so long as the resident does not interfere with the rights of others or unless prior to admission the resident, guardian, or representative is informed of written admission policies which limit or ban smoking.
(11)
Jails, prisons, municipal, county and state places of incarceration wherein persons who are charged with the commission of criminal offenses or have been convicted of criminal offenses are housed.
(12)
Wholly or partially enclosed private boxes in indoor sports arenas and in such designated smoking areas of the sports arena.
(13)
Limousines under private hire by an individual or corporation.
(Code 1977, § 9-8003)
Sec. 86-34. - Declaration of smoke-free environment.
Nothing in this article shall be deemed, interpreted or construed to restrict or prohibit any person in charge of any public place or place of employment form designating that place a smoke-free facility and prohibiting smoking in areas which otherwise would be permitted by this article.
(Code 1977, § 9-8004)
Sec. 86-35. - Posting of signs.
(a)
Because ordinances regulating smoking are primarily self-enforcing, adequate signage is important.
(b)
"Smoking," "No Smoking," or the international symbol for no smoking, consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle, with a red bar across it, whichever are appropriate, shall be conspicuously posted in every public place and place of employment where smoking is regulated by this chapter by the person in charge of such facility. Such signs shall be configured with a minimum size requirement of four inches by four inches and containing letters not less than one inch in height.
(c)
Every food service establishment shall have posted at each entrance a conspicuous sign clearly stating that a nonsmoking section is available, and that smoking is allowed only in the designated smoking area.
(Code 1977, § 9-8005)
Sec. 86-36. - Enforcement.
(a)
Although smoking ordinances are primarily self-regulating, enforcement of this article shall be the ultimate responsibility of the department of police.
(b)
The city solicitor may initiate any action seeking enforcement of this article on the solicitor's own motion or upon information provided by any citizen. Any officer of the city police department also may initiate an action for violation of this article if a violation occurs in such officer's presence. Any other police officer whose jurisdiction is located within the city may initiate an action for violation of this article if a violation occurs in such officer's presence provided that the violation occurs within that officer's jurisdiction.
(c)
Any owner, operator or manager of any establishment regulated by this article shall inform persons violating this article of this article's provisions.
(d)
In any dispute arising under this article, the need to breathe smoke-free air shall be given precedence over the need to smoke.
(Code 1977, § 9-8006)
Sec. 86-37. - Other applicable laws.
This article shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted or prohibited by other applicable laws, regulations or policies.
(Code 1977, § 9-8007)
Sec. 86-38. - Violations and penalties.
Any person who smokes or any person who allows smoking violation of this article, or any person who violates any provision of this article, shall be guilty of an offense punishable pursuant to section 1-8. Each and every violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1977, § 9-8009)
