ARTICLE XX. - AMENDMENTS

Section 2000. - Amendment by governing body.
The city council may from time to time amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal this ordinance, including the zoning map, by proceeding in the following manner, and as otherwise required by law.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2001. - Initiation of applications.
A.
Form. Applications to amend this ordinance may be in the form of proposals to amend the text or proposals to amend the official zoning map.
B.
Applicants.
(1)
City council. Application to amend the text of the zoning map may be initiated by resolution of the city council, by the mayor individually, or by any official designated by the mayor and city council.
(2)
Property owner. Applications to amend the map regarding a particular piece of property may be submitted by a property owner of record or his authorized agent to the zoning administrator.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2002. - Application for amendment.
Every application for amendment of the zoning ordinance shall be presented to the zoning administrator and shall contain the following:
A.
Applicant's name and address and his representative, and the interest of every person represented in the application.
B.
A written metes and bounds description of the property for which rezoning is requested, together with a recent plat of the property prepared by an architect, engineer, land surveyor or landscape architect, whose state registration is current and valid and whose seal shall be affixed to the plat. The plats must contain property lines, bearings, distances, adjoining streets with right-of-way and paving width, location of existing structures, creeks, easements, north arrow and scale.
C.
A statement of circumstances in the proposed district and the abutting districts and any other factors on which the applicant relies as reasons to support the proposed rezoning. The statement shall include information regarding the demand that will be placed on public facilities and services by any contemplated development, including but not limited to increased population density, traffic volume, school enrollment, drainage, traffic and utility facilities.
D.
Subject to the following threshold criteria, a nonbinding sketch plan shall be required as part of the rezoning application procedure:
1.
A multiple-family development in excess of 16 dwelling units.
2.
A commercial development occupying a site in excess of one acre.
E.
All applications for rezoning requiring a sketch plan shall be accompanied by a plot plan drawn to scale. Submission shall include the following items:
1.
Project name.
2.
Project owner and address.
3.
Date, scale, north arrow.
4.
Vicinity map.
5.
Property lines and dimensions.
6.
Owner and use of adjacent properties.
7.
Total project acreage.
8.
Proposed use of property to be developed.
9.
Required yard setbacks appropriately dimensioned.
10.
Location of buildings and the square footage in each.
11.
Existing and future right-of-way of adjacent street, including names of streets and width of pavement.
12.
Topography at five-foot contour intervals for properties greater than ten acres, topography at two-foot contour intervals for properties less than ten acres.
13.
Location of driveway ingress and egress.
14.
All existing and proposed offstreet parking spaces, loading stations, bays and walkways.
15.
Location of buffers/screening, if required.
16.
Location of 100-year floodplain.
17.
Dumpster location.
18.
Any other data requested in writing by the zoning administrator necessary to an understanding and evaluation of the project.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2003. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-06, § 1.a), adopted July 21, 2009, deleted § 2003, which pertained to filing fee and derived from Ord. of 9-17-91.
Section 2004. - Referral to planning commission.
All proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance or map together with the required site plans shall be referred to the Statesboro Planning Commission prior to a public hearing before the mayor and city council for study and recommendation. The planning commission shall study the need and justification for the change based on, but not limited to, the standards outlined below in section 2007. After completing its studies of the proposed amendment, the recommendation and report of the planning commission shall be submitted to the mayor and city council. The recommendation of the planning commission shall be of an advisory nature and not be binding on the mayor and city council.
(Ord. of 9-17-91; Ord. No. 2010-20, § 1.e), 10-19-10; Ord. No. 2012-01, § 1, 3-6-12)
Section 2005. - Notice.
(A)
The city shall cause a legal notice to be published in the newspaper of general circulation in the City of Statesboro at least 15 days but not more than 45 days prior to the public hearing. The notice shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing. If the application is initiated by a party other than the mayor and city council, the newspaper notice shall also include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property and the proposed zoning classification of the property.
(B)
If the amendment application is initiated by a party other than the mayor and city council, a sign stating the time, place and purpose of the hearing, together with the current and proposed zoning classifications, shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property to be rezoned not less the [than] 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. The sign will remain on the property until final action has been taken by the mayor and city council. If the property proposed for rezoning does not have frontage on a public street, then the sign may be posted on the right-of-way of the nearest public street which provides access to the site.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2006. - Hearing.
The mayor and city council shall provide for a public hearing on any proposed amendment. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the following operating procedures:
(A)
The hearing shall be convened and chaired by the mayor.
(B)
The mayor will review the procedures for holding a public hearing outlined in this provision.
(C)
In order for a person in attendance to speak, the mayor must recognize him or her. Upon rising to speak, the person recognized will first identify himself, and upon request of the mayor furnish a home or business address.
(D)
Persons appearing as part of an organized group will designate a spokesperson to present the group's position.
(E)
Opponents and proponents of the zoning decision under consideration shall be allowed a minimum of ten minutes per side for the presentation of data, evidence, and opinion. The mayor may extend the time for each side when circumstances deem it appropriate.
(F)
Additional persons will be recognized according to the above procedures for the purpose of addressing additional elements of the proposed revisions or to make additional points with regard to the elements already addressed, but not to rehash points already made.
(Ord. of 9-17-91; Amd. of 11-4-97)
Section 2007. - Standard for determination.
The mayor and city council in exercising its zoning power, shall be governed by the following standards in making its determination and balancing the promotions of the public health, safety, morality [morals] and general welfare against the right of unrestricted use of property:
(1)
Existing uses and zoning or [of] property nearby.
(2)
The extent to which property values are diminished by the particular zoning restrictions.
(3)
The extent to which the description of property values of the property owner promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public.
(4)
The relative gain to the public, as compared to the hardship imposed upon the property owner.
(5)
The suitability of the subject property for the zoned purposes.
(6)
The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned, considered in the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of the property.
(7)
The extent the proposed change would impact the following:
(a)
Population density in the area.
(b)
Community facilities.
(c)
Living conditions in the area.
(d)
Traffic patterns and congestion.
(e)
Environmental aspects.
(f)
Existing and future land use patterns.
(g)
Property values in adjacent areas.
(8)
Consistency with other governmental land use, transportation and development plans for the community.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2008. - Rehearing.
If the mayor and city council deny any application for rezoning of property, then the same property may not be considered for rezoning until the expiration of at least six months immediately after the denial.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
