ARTICLE III. - ZONING DISTRICTS

Section 300. - Classes of districts.
For the purpose of this ordinance, the City of Statesboro is hereby divided into 16 districts which shall be designated as follows:
EXPAND
R-2 Townhouse Residential District
R-3 Medium Density Multifamily Residential District
R-4 High Density District
R-6 Single-Family Residential District
R-8 Single-Family Residential District
R-10 Single-Family Residential District
R-15 Single-Family Residential District
R-20 Single-Family Residential District
R-30 Single-Family Residential District
R-40 Single-Family Residential District
CBD Central Business District
O Office and Business Office Districts
CR Commercial Retail District
HOC Highway Oriented Commercial District
LI Light Industrial District
HI Heavy Industrial District
PUD Planned Unit Development
  (Amd. of 12-4-01(3), ยง 2; Ord. No. 2022-03, Exh. A, ยง 2, 8-2-22)
Section 301. - Zoning map.
The existing zoning map was adopted by motion of July 7, 1987 and made a part of the ordinance designated as "Zoning Map of the City of Statesboro". That zoning map is being supplemented by a new zoning map for the City of Statesboro which is incorporated in and made a part of this ordinance [this appendix] and shall become the new zoning map of the City of Statesboro on the date of the adoption of this amendment.
(Amd. of 12-4-01(3), ยง 2)
Section 302. - District boundaries.
The boundaries between districts are, unless otherwise indicated, either the centerlines of streets, lanes, watercourses, rights-of-way of power lines and other public utilities or such lines extended or lines parallel thereto. Where the boundaries of a single district are indicated as including directly opposite sides of a street, lane, lake or watercourse, or right-of-way of a power line of [or] other public utility, for any portion of its length, the district so indicated shall be construed to apply to the entire bed of such street, lane, lake or watercourse, or right-of-way of such power line, railroad or other public utility, lying within such portion of its length. Where uncertainty exists as to the location of any [of] said boundaries as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
A.
Where a district boundary is indicated as approximately following the centerline of a street, lane, lake or watercourse, or right-of-way of a power line or other public utility, such centerline shall be construed to be such boundary.
B.
Where a district boundary is indicated as approximately following a lot line or other property line, such lot line shall be construed to be such boundary.
C.
Where a district boundary divides a lot or runs through undivided property, the location of such boundary, unless otherwise specified by figures on the zoning map, shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on said map.
D.
Where figures are shown on the zoning map between a street and a district boundary, they shall indicate that the district boundary runs parallel to the street line at a distance therefrom equivalent to the number of feet so indicated, unless specified. Where scaled distances do not agree with such figures, the figures shall control.
Section 303. - Federal and state owned property.
Wherever federal or state owned property is included in one or more zoning districts, it shall be subject to the provisions of this ordinance only insofar as permitted by the constitution and laws of the United States of America and of the State of Georgia.
