ARTICLE XIV. - PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

Section 1400. - Declaration of legislative intent.
[The purpose of the PUD district is] to permit great flexibility in the use and design of structures and land in situations where modification of specific provisions of this ordinance will not be contrary to its intent and purpose or significantly inconsistent with the planning on which it is based and will not be harmful to the neighborhood in which they occur.
Section 1401. - Use regulations.
The planning commission may authorize uses not permitted in the district where the lot is located, providing such uses are desirable or convenient for the users of the lot as developed or the immediate neighborhood, and provided that such uses are planned so as to assure that they will not materially alter the existing character of the neighborhood. Uses not permitted in the district where the lot is located shall not be permitted to occupy more than ten percent of the lot area nor more than ten percent of the building floor area, except that townhouse dwellings shall be permitted in any quantity in any planned unit development district, subject to standards in article XXV-A and subject to approval by the city council. Where the planning commission determines that the application is consistent with section 1400 of this section and with the other requirements thereof, it shall enter an order authorizing development and use in accordance with the site plan and description contained in the application modified as the planning commission may require to carry out the intent and purpose of this section and containing any conditions or restrictions which the planning commission may consider necessary to carry out the purposes of this article and to protect the public health, safety and welfare. The order shall recite the reasons and findings of fact upon which it is based.
(Ord. No. 2022-03, Exh. A, ยง 5, 8-2-22)
Section 1402. - Lot regulations.
The provisions of this section may be applied upon application of the owner, to any lot exceeding ten acres in size. The owner shall file with the planning commission a proposed site plan and detailed description of the structures to be erected, the other facilities of the project and the land uses involved. In addition, he shall furnish such other information as the planning commission may reasonably require. In acting upon the application, the planning commission may alter setback requirements, height limits, building size limits, offstreet parking regulations, landscaping rules and density and intensity limits but only with approval from the city council.
(Ord. No. 2022-03, Exh. A, ยง 4, 8-2-22)
Section 1403. - Procedural requirements.
The plan of the proposed planned unit development with any required supplementary information shall be referred to the planning commission. The planning commission shall report its recommendation for approval or disapproval with reasons and any additional requirements to the city council for action. The city council shall hold a public hearing in the same manner and give notice thereof as required upon application for a variance. If no report is submitted by the planning commission within 30 days of referral, the city council may take action without such a report.
(Ord. No. 2022-03, Exh. A, ยง 4, 8-2-22)
