ARTICLE X. - CR COMMERCIAL RETAIL DISTRICT

Section 1000. - [Generally.]
In a CR district, the following regulations shall apply.
Section 1001. - Use regulations.
A building maybe erected, altered or used, and a lot may be used or occupied, for any of the following purposes and no other:
A.
Any use specifically permitted in a CBD district.
B.
Health care facilities, to include hospitals and nursing homes.
(Ord. of 4-2-96)
Section 1002. - Height regulations.
The maximum height of any building or other structure erected or used in this district shall be 35 feet except that the height of any such other building or structure may be increased to a maximum of 50 feet when approved by the board of appeals. Said board shall make a finding that any excess height over 35 feet will not be detrimental to the light, air, privacy or architectural scheme of any other structure or use currently existing or anticipated, provided that for every foot in height in excess of 35 feet there shall be added to each yard requirement one corresponding foot of width or depth.
Section 1003. - Area regulations, store area, and lot area.
A.
Lot area. A lot area of not less than 10,000 square feet shall be provided per structure to be located. A structure shall be permitted to have multiple units of businesses in the structure.
B.
Building area. For every lot used in whole or in part for commercial purposes, not more than 85 percent of the area may be occupied by buildings.
C.
Front yard. There shall be a front yard on each street on which a lot abuts which shall not be less than 25 feet in depth.
D.
Side yards. Side yards shall be at a minimum 15 feet. On a lot which abuts a residential district, the side yard abutting such district shall have a width not less than that required in such adjoining district.
E.
Distance between buildings. Buildings within a commercial development, if separated, shall be not less than 20 feet apart.
F.
Street access requirement. When commercially zoned property (HOC, CR, or O) abuts residentially zoned property (all residential zones except R-4 high density residential), access from that commercial zone shall be prohibited to a local street that serves primarily a residential zone. Commercially zoned property abutting residentially zoned property shall be considered a prior nonconforming use in regards to this provision, provided that a driveway on the commercially zoned property exiting onto the local residential street existed on or before January 1, 1999. These provisions shall not apply to property zoned O-office which is located on a state or federal highway, as the traffic should ingress or egress from the local street in those situations rather than impede traffic flow on these major collector and arterial roads. Outparcels in a commercial development shall have access limited to either:
1.
A street designated by the department of transportation as a federal or state highway; or
2.
An access road designated by the commercial development for egress/ingress from the commercial center to a nonresidential city street or major highway.
G.
Outparcels. All buildings and structures to be constructed on outparcels shall comply with the front yard setbacks and exterior rear yard setbacks established for the commercial retail district.
[H.]G.
Rear yard setbacks. There shall be a rear yard setback of 25 feet.
(Amd. of 1-19-99(3); Amd. of 5-21-02(1); Ord. of 9-17-02; Ord. No. 2009-08, ยง 1.a), 8-18-09)
Section 1004. - Development requirements.
A.
Provision shall be made for ingress and egress to and from public roads serving the district without congestion to or interference with normal traffic flow.
B.
Lighting facilities shall be arranged in a manner which will protect the roadway and neighboring properties from unreasonable direct glare or hazardous interference of any kind.
C.
Adequate offstreet parking areas shall be provided in accordance with article XVI.
