Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Planning commission, § 2-66 et seq.; alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; cable communications, ch. 22; environment, ch. 38; fire protection and prevention, ch. 42; floods, ch. 46; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 54; solid waste, ch. 66; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 70; utilities, ch. 82; vegetation, ch. 86; zoning, app. A; signs, app. A, art. XV; subdivision regulations, app. B.
State Law reference— Authority of city or county to provide codes, including building, housing, plumbing and electrical codes, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(12); adoption and continuation of state minimum standard codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; state-wide application of minimum standard codes, codes requiring adoption by municipality or county, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; providing of fire escapes by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; access to and use of public facilities by physically handicapped persons, O.C.G.A. § 30-3-1 et seq.; authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Adoption and enforcement of technical codes.
The City of Statesboro shall enforce the latest edition of the following Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes and all appendices, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs:
International Building Code
International Mechanical Code
International Fuel Gas Code
International Plumbing Code
National Electrical Code
International Fire Code
International Residential Code
International Energy Conservation Code
International Existing Building Code
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
Any person, firm, corporation or agent who shall violate a provision of the construction codes, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect, construct, alter, install, demolish or move any structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired, moved or demolished a building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, in violation of a detailed statement or drawing submitted and permitted thereunder, shall be guilty of violating the Code of Ordinances of the City of Statesboro. Each such person, firm, corporation or agent shall be considered guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of the construction codes is committed or continued, and upon conviction of any such violation such person shall be punished within the limits as provided in section 5-3 of the Charter of the City of Statesboro.
In addition to prosecution in municipal court said codes shall be administratively enforced by personnel of the city's protective inspection division pursuant to the administrative procedures attached to this ordinance as Attachment A. A copy of the administrative procedures contained in Attachment A are kept on file with the city clerk for review by the public during the regular business hours of city hall. A copy of the administrative procedures contained in Attachment A can be obtained through an open records request.
The adoption and enforcement of the construction codes per this section shall not be held to deprive any federal, state, or local agency, e.g. the state fire marshal and the Statesboro Fire Department, or any applicable governing authority having jurisdiction, of any power or authority which it had on the effective date of the adoption of the construction codes or of any remedy then existing for the enforcement of its orders.
(Ord. of 1-22-92; Ord. of 3-2-93; Ord. of 3-18-03; Ord. No. 2012-08, § 1, 12-4-12)
Sec. 14-2. - Fire district.
There is hereby established a fire district for the city, to include all the following territory:
(1)
Beginning at the intersection of North Main Street and Sharpe Street, and running east to the intersection of Sharpe and Oak Streets; then south to the intersection of Oak and Hill Streets; then east to the intersection of Hill and Mulberry Streets; then south on Mulberry Street and continuing along a straight line to East Main Street; then along a straight line from this point to the intersection of Mulberry Street and Savannah Avenue; then continuing south to the intersection of Mulberry and East Cherry Streets; then west on East Cherry Street to the intersection of East Cherry and South Main Streets; then north on South Main Street to the intersection of West Cherry Street; then west on West Cherry Street to the intersection of South Walnut Street; then on South Walnut Street a distance of 200 feet; then across the block to South College Street at a point 200 feet south of the intersection of South College and West Cherry Streets; then north on College Street to the intersection of North College and Proctor Streets; then east to the intersection of Proctor and North Walnut Streets; then north to a point on North Walnut Street where North Walnut and Sharpe Streets would intersect if Sharpe Street were open on the west side of North Main Street; then east along this line to the point of beginning.
(2)
Beginning at the intersection of North College Street and Proctor Street, and running west on Proctor Street a distance of 730 feet; thence south a distance of 150 feet along the east line of property now owned by the city and known as city water well no. 2; thence north a distance of 730 feet to North College Street, this point being 150 feet north of West Main Street.
(Code 1987, § 4-1)
Sec. 14-3. - Use of plumber's name or license by another.
No licensed plumber shall allow his name or license to be used by any person, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of obtaining a permit or of doing any work under his license. If this section is violated, both the plumber and the person using the plumber's license shall be deemed equally guilty and shall be punished therefor.
(Code 1987, § 18-7)
Sec. 14-4. - Use of electrician's name or license by another.
No licensed electrician shall allow his name to be used by any person, either directly or indirectly, for the purpose of obtaining a permit or doing any work under his license. If this section is violated, both the electrician and the person using the electrician's name or license shall be deemed equally guilty and shall be punished therefor.
(Code 1987, § 7-12)
Sec. 14-5. - License, bond and insurance for persons installing or repairing gas piping.
Each person entering into the installation, construction, reconstruction or repair of any gas piping in the territory served by the gas system shall be licensed and bonded and carry minimum liability insurance coverage as set from time to time by the city council.
(Code 1987, § 11-3)
Sec. 14-6. - O.C.G.A. Section 8-2-26(d) not applicable within city.
Pursuant to the authority contained in Section 3 of Act 1046 Georgia Laws, 1996, subsection (d) of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26, relating to self-inspection of water and sewer projects by master plumbers or utility contractors, shall not be applicable within the city.
(Ord. of 9-4-969(2))
Secs. 14-7—14-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FLOW RATE RESTRICTIONS ON PLUMBING FIXTURES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Flow rate restrictions on plumbing fixtures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3.

Sec. 14-36. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building, and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable or obsolete faucet, shower head, toilet or urinal in an existing building.
Residential means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling, but shall not include a hotel or motel.
(Ord. of 3-5-91; Ord. of 8-20-91(3), § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-37. - Applicability of article to existing buildings.
The requirements of this article shall apply to any residential construction initiated after October 1, 1991, and to any commercial construction initiated after April 1, 1992, which involves the repair or renovation of or addition to any existing building, when such repair or renovation of or addition to such existing building includes replacement of toilets or showers or both.
(Ord. of 3-5-91; Ord. of 8-20-91(3), § 4)
Sec. 14-38. - Exemptions from article.
(a)
New construction and the repair or renovation of any existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of this article when:
(1)
The repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets or shower heads within such existing building;
(2)
Such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design or installation, would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or shower heads required by this article were installed;
(3)
Such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
Units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by the handicapped;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
(b)
The owner, or his agent, of a building undergoing new construction or repair or renovation who is entitled to an exemption as specified in subsection (a)(2), (3) or (4) of this section shall obtain the exemption by applying at the office of the building inspector. A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges shall be charged for the inspection and issuance of such exemption.
(Ord. of 3-5-91; Ord. of 8-20-91(3), § 5)
Sec. 14-39. - Enforcement of article; penalty.
(a)
This article shall be enforced by the office of the building official. Citations for violations may be issued by the building official.
(b)
Any person violating this article shall be tried before the municipal court of the city. Upon conviction, a violation of this article may be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 3-5-91; Ord. of 8-20-91(3), § 6)
Sec. 14-40. - Required fixtures.
(a)
Residential buildings. On or after October 1, 1991, no construction may be initiated within the city for any residential building of any type which:
(1)
Employs a gravity tank type, flushometer-valve or flushometer tank toilet that uses more than an average of 1.6 gallons of water per flush; provided, however, this subsection shall not be applicable to one-piece toilets until July 1, 1992;
(2)
Employs a shower head that allows a flow of more than an average of 2.5 gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure;
(3)
Employs a urinal that uses more than an average of 1.0 gallons of water per flush;
(4)
Employs a lavatory faucet or lavatory replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.0 gallons of water per minute; or
(5)
Employs a kitchen faucet or kitchen replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute.
(b)
Commercial buildings. On or after April 1, 1992, there shall be no construction of any commercial building initiated within the city for any commercial building of any type which does not meet the requirements of subsections (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(Ord. of 3-5-91; Ord. of 8-20-91(3), §§ 2, 3)
