ARTICLE V. - PROTECTION OF UNDERGROUND UTILITIES

Sec. 82-216. - Title of article.
This article shall be known as the underground utility damage prevention ordinance.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(a))
Sec. 82-217. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Damage means the substantial weakening of structural or lateral support of an underground utility, penetration or destruction of any protective coating, housing or other protective device of an underground utility, and the partial or complete severance of an underground utility.
Demolish or demolition means any operation by which a structure or mass of material is wrecked, razed, rendered, moved or removed by means of any tools, equipment or discharge of explosives.
Excavate or excavation means an operation for the purpose of the movement or removal of earth, rock or other materials in or on the ground by use of mechanized equipment or by discharge of explosives, including augering, backfilling, digging, ditching, drilling, grading, plowing-in, pulling-in, ripping, scraping, trenching and tunneling, but not including the tilling of soil for agricultural purposes.
Mechanized equipment means equipment operated by means of mechanical power, including trenchers, bulldozers, power shovels, augers, backhoes, scrapers, drills, cable and pipe plows and other equipment used for plowing-in or pulling-in cable or pipe.
Operator means any person who owns or operates a utility.
Utility means any line, system or facility used for producing, storing, conveying, transmitting or distributing communication, electricity, gas, petroleum, petroleum products, hazardous liquids, water, steam or sewage.
Working day means every day except Saturday, Sunday and national and legal state holidays.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(b))
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-218. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed $1,000.00 for each such violation. Actions to recover the penalty provided for in this section shall be brought by the city attorney at the request of the mayor and city council, in the city or county in which the cause or some part thereof arose or in which the defendant has its principal place of business or resides. All penalties recovered in any such action shall be paid into the general fund of the city. This article does not affect any civil remedies for personal injury or property damage except as otherwise specifically provided in this article.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(k))
Sec. 82-219. - Applicability of article to holders of excavation or demolition permits.
A permit issued pursuant to law authorizing excavation or demolition operations shall not be deemed to relieve a person from the responsibility for complying with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(c))
Sec. 82-220. - Duty to determine location of utilities.
Except as provided in section 82-224, no person may excavate in a street, highway or public space, in a private easement of an operator, or near the location of a utility installed on the premises of a customer served by such utility, or demolish a building, without having first ascertained in the manner prescribed in sections 82-222 and 82-223 the location of all underground utilities in the area that would be affected by the proposed excavation or demolition.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(d))
Sec. 82-221. - Filing requirements for utility operators.
(a)
No later than 30 days before the effective date of this article, each operator having underground utilities in the city or in areas served by utilities of the city shall file with the city engineer a list containing the name of every city, village, township and section within the township in the county in which it has underground utilities, including those utilities that have been abandoned in place by the operator but not yet physically removed, the name of the operator, and the name, title, address and telephone number of its representative designated to receive the written or telephonic notice of intent required by section 82-222.
(b)
Changes in any of the information contained in the list filed under subsection (a) of this section shall be filed by the operator with the city engineer within five working days of the change.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(e))
Sec. 82-222. - Notice of intent to excavate or demolish.
(a)
Except as provided in section 82-224, before commencing any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 82-220, each person responsible for such excavation or demolition shall serve written or telephonic notice of intent to excavate or demolish, at least three but not more than ten full working days in advance of the proposed excavation or demolition, on each operator which has filed a list required by section 82-221 indicating that it has underground utilities located in the proposed area of excavation or demolition.
(b)
The written or telephonic notice required by subsection (a) of this section must contain the name, address and telephone number of the person filing the notice of intent, and, if different, the person responsible for the excavation or demolition, the starting date, anticipated duration and type of excavation or demolition operation to be conducted, the location of the proposed excavation or demolition, and whether or not explosives are to be used.
(c)
If the notification required by this section is made by telephone, an adequate record of such notification shall be maintained by the operators notified to document compliance with the requirements of this article.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(f))
Sec. 82-223. - Response to notice of intent to excavate or demolish.
Each operator or designated representative notified in accordance with section 82-222 shall, not less than two working days in advance of the proposed excavation or demolition, unless a shorter period is provided by agreement between the person responsible for the excavation or demolition and the operator or designated representative, supply, by use of maps when appropriate, the following information to the person responsible for the excavation or demolition:
(1)
The approximate location and description of all of its underground utilities which may be damaged as a result of the excavation or demolition;
(2)
The location and description of all utility markers indicating the approximate location of the underground utilities; and
(3)
Any other information that would assist that person in locating and thereby avoiding damage to the underground utilities, including providing adequate temporary markings indicating the approximate location of the underground utility in locations where permanent utility markers do not exist.
For purposes of this section, the approximate location of underground utilities is defined as a strip of land at least three feet wide, but not wider than the width of the utility plus one-half foot on either side of the utility.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(g))
Sec. 82-224. - Emergency excavation or demolition.
Compliance with the notice requirements of section 82-222 is not required of persons responsible for emergency excavation or demolition to ameliorate an imminent danger to life, health or property; provided, however, that such persons give, as soon as practicable, oral notice of the emergency excavation or demolition to each operator having underground utilities located in the area where such excavation or demolition is to be performed and request emergency assistance from each operator so identified in locating and providing immediate protection to its underground utilities. For purposes of this section, the approximate location of underground utilities is defined as a strip of land at least three feet wide, but not wider than the width of the utility plus one-half foot on either side of the utility.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(g))
Sec. 82-224. - Emergency excavation or demolition.
Compliance with the notice requirements of section 82-222 is not required of persons responsible for emergency excavation or demolition to ameliorate an imminent danger to life, health or property; provided, however, that such persons give, as soon as practicable, oral notice of the emergency excavation or demolition to each operator having underground utilities located in the area where such excavation or demolition is to be performed and request emergency assistance from each operator so identified in locating and providing immediate protection to its underground utilities. For purposes of this section, an imminent danger to life, health or property exists whenever there is a substantial likelihood that loss of life, health or property will result before the procedures required under sections 82-222 and 82-223 can be fully complied with.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(h))
Sec. 82-225. - Precautions to avoid damage.
In addition to the notification requirements of section 82-222, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 82-220 shall:
(1)
Plan the excavation or demolition to avoid damage to or minimize interference with underground utilities in and near the construction area;
(2)
Maintain a clearance between an underground utility and the cutting edge or point of any mechanized equipment, taking into account the known limit of control of such cutting edge or point, as may be reasonably necessary to avoid damage to such utility; and
(3)
Provide such support for underground utilities in and near the construction area, including during backfill operations, as may be reasonably necessary for the protection of such utilities.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(i))
Sec. 82-226. - Required actions when work results in damage.
(a)
Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 82-220 that results in any damage to an underground utility shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the operator of such utility of the location and nature of the damage and shall allow the operator reasonable time to accomplish necessary repairs before completing the excavation or demolition in the immediate area of such utility.
(b)
Each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 82-220 that results in damage to an underground utility permitting the escape of any flammable, toxic or corrosive gas or liquid shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the operator and the police and fire departments, and take any other action as may be reasonably necessary to protect persons and property and to minimize the hazards until arrival of the operator's personnel or personnel of the police and fire departments.
(Code 1987, § 22-61(j))
Sec. 82-227. - Required locator wire on water/sewer service lines.
For all new facilities connecting to the city water and sewer system and any facility replacing their existing water and/or sewer services lines, the customer shall require their plumber to extend a 12-gauge THHN solid copper locator wire from the customer's building to the connection to city water or sewer and connect to the city's locator wire utilizing a water tight wire connector 3M model DBR connector. At the point where the customer's water or sewer service enters the building, the plumber shall terminate the locator wire in a six-inch irrigation type valve box. If there is no locator wire present on the city's water service line or sewer main, the plumber shall terminate the customer's locator wire in the water meter box or at the point he connects to the city's sewer main.
(Amd. of 3-1-05)
Secs. 82-228—82-249. - Reserved.
