Chapter 34 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 58; traffic and vehicles, ch. 78.
State Law reference— Establishment and jurisdiction of municipal courts, Ga. Const. art. 6, sec. 1, par. 1; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 34-26. - Authority to punish violations of ordinances.
It shall be the duty of the municipal court judge to hold court for the trial of any offenders for the violation of city ordinances, and to inflict such punishment as is provided by this Code of Ordinances or the ordinances of the city.
(Code 1987, § 16-25)
Sec. 34-27. - Authority to enforce collection of fines, compel attendance of parties, witnesses.
(a)
When a person is fined for any offense and fails or refuses to pay such fine immediately, it shall be the duty of the municipal court judge to have the offender incarcerated for the length of time mentioned in the sentence imposed. Where the offender has sufficient property in the limits of the city, the municipal court judge, in his discretion, may issue an execution against the property of the offender and proceed to sell such property to satisfy the execution as in cases of levy and sale for taxes.
(b)
The municipal court judge is hereby vested with power and authority to compel the attendance of parties charged with violating any city ordinances and to compel the attendance of witnesses wanted in any case, by serving them with a summons, and on failure to obey such summons, to cause the party to be arrested and brought before the court to be fined for contempt as in other cases.
(Code 1987, § 16-26)
Sec. 34-28. - Binding defendant over to court.
If it should appear, upon the trial of any person brought before the municipal court judge, that a crime against the state has been committed by the defendant, it shall be the duty of the municipal court judge to bind such person in sufficient bond to ensure his appearance before the proper court and in default of bond to commit the defendant to jail to answer the charges.
(Code 1987, § 16-27)
Sec. 34-29. - Services by publication to persons in certain cases.
When any ordinance provides for service of notice upon any person who is a nonresident, or his address is unknown, or he absents himself or by any other means makes himself unavailable to receive notice of service for any purpose necessary for the orderly operation of the city and the enforcement of its ordinances, such person may be served with such notice as necessary by publishing in the legal organ of the county, once a week for four weeks next before the desired action is instituted; however, the latest publication may not be in the week that the proposed action is commenced. Such ordinance shall conform in all respects to state law as provided in the O.C.G.A. § 9-11-4(3).
(Code 1987, § 16-30)
