Chapter 54 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 18; dilapidated buildings, § 38-41 et seq.; floods, ch. 46; traffic and vehicles, ch. 78; utilities, ch. 82; zoning, app. A; subdivision regulations, app. B.
State Law reference— Classification of mobile homes as a separate class of property for ad valorem property tax purposes, Ga. Const., art. 7, sec. 1, par. 3; The Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.; regulations for septic tanks in unincorporated areas; conformity prerequisite to building permit, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.1; registration and licensing of dealers, manufacturers and persons transporting mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-36; removal of transportable housing from lands subject to writ of possession, O.C.G.A. § 44-7-59; ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.

Sec. 54-1. - Location for residential occupancy.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
House trailer means any structure intended for or capable of being used for human habitation, vehicular in design, which may be driven, towed or propelled from one location to another without change in such structure or design, whether or not the structure is supported by wheels.
Industrialized modular home means any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and which has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to or destruction thereof, and which bears the insignia of approval of the department of community affairs of the state.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or which, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet in size, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under the National Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq.
(b)
Permitted locations.
(1)
Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or maintain, for living purposes, any house trailer, manufactured home or industrialized modular home in the limits of the city, except in a duly licensed and approved house trailer, manufactured home or industrialized modular home park.
(2)
Temporary location outside licensed park. Any person desiring to place or have occupied a house trailer, manufactured home or industrialized modular home within the limits of the city outside of a regularly licensed house trailer, manufactured home or industrialized modular home park may make an application for such use to the city engineer. The application will be referred to the mayor and city council and will be passed upon and determined in the following manner: If, in the opinion of the mayor and city council, it should become necessary due to a temporary emergency or hardship or for security or protection, such permit may be granted on a limited basis for a period not exceeding one year from the date of the permit. If before the anniversary date of the permit the emergency or other reason for the house trailer, manufactured home or industrialized modular home shall no longer exist, then the permit will be automatically canceled and the structure removed by the owner. If the structure is not removed, it will be removed by the city at the owner's expense. Such permit, if granted, shall be a privilege and not a right and shall be issued strictly at the discretion of the city council, which shall prescribe the terms, the location, the duration of the permit, the utility connections for electricity and gas, and the sanitary system for water and sewage, and its decision shall be final.
(Code 1987, §§ 16-9, 16-10; Ord. of 1-19-88)
Sec. 54-2. - Mobile home registration.
(a)
All persons, firms, businesses, institutions or corporations who have placed a mobile home or manufactured home within the city limits are required to register such mobile home or manufactured home with the city clerk or the city clerk's designated representative within 30 days of placement within the city and then shall renew the registration on or before November 1 of each subsequent year. The city clerk shall maintain a registration listing which shall include the name and current address of the owner of the mobile home or manufactured home as well as the make, model and vehicle identification number of each unit. Furthermore, the city clerk shall issue a registration sticker for each unit, which shall be displayed prominently by the occupant and/or owner on the outside of each unit so that it shall be easily visible to any code enforcement officer.
(b)
For the purposes of this section, a mobile home or manufactured home shall be defined as follows:
(1)
Manufactured home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electric systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42, USC § 5401 et seq.
(2)
Mobile home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
(3)
Any other trailer or enclosed unit similar to the items described in subsections (1) and (2) above and which are subject to ad valorem taxation as personal property by the city.
(c)
Failure to comply with the requirements of this section or the act of occupying a unit not in compliance herewith shall be a violation of this section and subject the owner of the unit, any occupant thereof or both to the general penalties contained in section 1-12 of this Code.
(Ord. of 9-6-95)
