ARTICLE IV. - SEWER SERVICE[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Lien for enforcement of tendered services to property owners, § 58-8.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 82-91. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. All other words shall be construed as having the meaning defined in Glossary of Water and Sewage Control Engineering, published by the Water Pollution Control Federation, Washington D.C., or by their general usage if undefined.
Biochemical oxygen demand or BOD means the quantity of oxygen used in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20 degrees Celsius.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
City means the City of Statesboro, or the governing body thereof.
City engineer means the city engineer of the City of Statesboro, or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
Commercial user or contributor means a premises which or person who discharges industrial wastes which are similar to domestic wastes in nature and do not exceed those parameters which define normal sewage, including volume.
Easement means an acquired legal right for specific use of land owned by others.
Garbage means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
Grease or oil means oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater.
Industrial user or contributor means an industry which discharges wastewater having the characteristics of industrial wastes, as distinct from commercial or domestic wastes, and having a biochemical oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter or greater or total suspended solids of 200 milligrams per liter or greater.
Normal sewage means wastewater having characteristics of domestic wastewater such that the biochemical oxygen demand and suspended solids concentration do not exceed 200 milligrams per liter and no other pollutant or chemical constituents are present in amounts which will interfere with the treatment processes.
Properly shredded garbage means waste from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that had been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights and which is controlled by public authority.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Sewer surcharge means a charge for sewer service and treatment service for wastes having characteristics different from normal sewage and for which additional charges must be assessed in order to make compensation for additional expenses incurred.
Slug means any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration discharged during normal operation.
Standard Methods means the examination and analytical procedures set forth in the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
Storm drain or storm sewer means a sewer which carries stormwater and surface water and drainage but excludes sanitary sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Street includes the right-of-way of streets, avenues, drives, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes and viaducts, and all other public highways.
Total suspended solids or TSS means solids that either float on the surface of or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids which are removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in standard methods.
Total solids means the sum of suspended matter, settleable matter and dissolved matter, both volatile and nonvolatile.
Watercourse means a channel in which flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Code 1987, Ch. 23½, Art. I)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-92. - Violation of article.
(a)
Notice of violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of this article except section 82-93 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(b)
Penalty. Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for in subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be fined, for each violation as provided in section 1-12. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(c)
Liability for damage. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Code 1987, §§ 23½-10.01—23½-10.03)
Sec. 82-93. - Authority of inspectors.
(a)
Generally. The city engineer and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article. The city engineer or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including those of metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind or source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(b)
Liability of city and sewer user. While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in subsection (a) of this section, the city engineer or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees. The city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by the city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging or sampling operations, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in section 82-162.
(c)
Entry on easements. The city engineer and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for purposes including but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Code 1987, §§ 23½-8.01—23½-8.03)
Sec. 82-94. - Grievances and arbitration.
(a)
Right to hearing. Upon formal request by the sewer user, the mayor and city council may hear any required arbitration of differences or grievances between the sewer user and the city engineer on matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of this article.
(b)
Appointment of hearing board. If deemed necessary by the mayor and city council, an independent hearing board may be appointed for arbitration purposes. Such a board shall consist of at least three persons. One of the members shall be a lawyer, and the other two members shall have technical knowledge of the provisions of this article. The cost of arbitration shall be equally divided by the city and the sewer user.
(Code 1987, §§ 23½-11.01, 23½-11.02)
Sec. 82-95. - Tampering with or damaging facilities.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under a charge of disorderly conduct.
(Code 1987, § 23½-9.01)
Sec. 82-96. - Unsanitary deposits prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Code 1987, § 23½-2.01)
Sec. 82-97. - Discharge of polluted water to natural outlet.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1987, § 23½-2.02)
Sec. 82-98. - Connection to public sewers required when sewer facilities available.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for disposal of sewage where public sewers are reasonably available.
(b)
The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose situated within the city or any area under the jurisdiction of the city, and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now or shall be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article within 90 days after the date of written notice from the city engineer to the property owner requiring such property owner to make connection thereto, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Code 1987, §§ 23½-2.03, 23½-2.04)
Sec. 82-99. - Enforcement of requirement that property be connected to sanitary sewer.
(a)
Authority of city to make connection. If an owner of property shall fail to connect any water closet, urinal or other receptacle or drain to the sanitary sewers of the city when required to do so, the authorities of the city shall cause such connection to be made and provide all necessary fixtures therefor, and assess the cost of such connection against the property owner.
(b)
Issuance of execution. The city clerk shall issue, within ten days from the completion of such work as provided by subsection (a) of this section, execution against the property owner and against the real estate so improved, which shall be levied and the property sold in the manner of the levy and sale of property under tax executions.
(c)
Context of levy by property owner. Before such levy shall be made, such property owner shall be notified of the cost of such material and work for which execution is issued, and upon such levy being made such property owner may file his affidavit of illegality returnable to the superior court of the county to be tried therein as provided for illegalities by the laws of this state.
(d)
Right of entry. The city authorities or any agent of the city shall have the right, power and authority to enter and go upon or into any private house or into any other building within the area required to connect to the sanitary sewers of the city for the purpose of inspecting the water closets, urinals and other drains and pipes, to remove such facilities whenever condemned, to insert the connections and fixtures, and to connect the facilities with the sanitary sewers of the city, without being deemed a trespasser or becoming responsible to the owner thereof or any tenant in possession of such property.
(e)
Discontinuance of water service. If any property owner within the area required to connect to the sanitary sewers of the city shall fail and refuse to make the connection provided for in this section after the time expires for such connection, the city authorities may, in their discretion, sever water connections with such property until connection shall be made as provided by this section.
(Code 1987, § 22-53)
Secs. 82-100—82-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS

Sec. 82-111. - Use generally.
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of section 82-98(b), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage system complying with the provisions of this division.
(Code 1987, § 23½-3.01)
Sec. 82-112. - Permit for installation.
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system such as a septic tank, privy, privy vault or cesspool, including one for a single-family dwelling, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city engineer. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the city engineer. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the time the application for the permit is filed.
(Code 1987, § 23½-3.02)
Sec. 82-113. - Inspection.
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city engineer. The city's authorized representatives shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within two working days of the receipt of notice by the city engineer.
(Code 1987, § 23½-3.03)
Sec. 82-114. - Specifications.
The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage system shall comply with all recommendations of the state department of natural resources or other local or state agencies having jurisdiction. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Code 1987, § 23½-3.04)
Sec. 82-115. - Operation and maintenance.
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
(Code 1987, § 23½-3.05)
Sec. 82-116. - Connection with public sewer.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in section 82-98(b), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this article. Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned, cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt within 60 days of notification to do so by the city engineer or other county or state agency having jurisdiction over such matters.
(Code 1987, § 23½-3.06)
Sec. 82-117. - Compliance with state and county requirements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed to nullify any additional requirements that may be imposed by the appropriate state or county regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over such matters.
(Code 1987, § 23½-3.07)
Secs. 82-118—82-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 82-131. - Connection permit required.
No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city engineer.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.01)
Sec. 82-132. - Application for connection permit.
There shall be two classes of building sewer permits, one for residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city engineer. When the application is filed, a permit and inspection fee for the building sewer shall be paid to the city as provided in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.02)
Sec. 82-133. - Payment of costs; indemnification of city.
All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.03)
Sec. 82-134. - Separate connection required for every building; exception.
A separate and independent sewer shall be provided for every building. Where one building stands to the rear of another on a single lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the city may grant permission for the building sewer from the front building to be extended to the rear building and the whole shall be considered as one building sewer, upon a showing by the applicant that it is not feasible that the two buildings so connected will ultimately be on separate building lots.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.04)
Sec. 82-135. - Use of old building sewers.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the city, to meet all of the requirements of this article.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.05)
Sec. 82-136. - Specifications for building sewer.
The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASCE and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.06)
Sec. 82-137. - Location and depth of building sewer.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement or first floor. No building sewer shall be made parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from live loads, such as automobiles and the like, which may be superimposed. The building sewer shall be made at uniform grade and in straight alignment, as far as possible. The building sewer shall be constructed to such point as directed by the city engineer.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.07)
Sec. 82-138. - Connection of sources of unpolluted water to sanitary sewer.
No person shall maintain or make a connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.08)
Sec. 82-139. - Inspection of building sewer; connection to main.
Before any underground portions thereof are covered, the applicant for a building sewer permit shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection thereof shall be made to the public sewer by an authorized representative of the city and only after inspection.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.09)
Sec. 82-140. - Excavations.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.10)
Sec. 82-141. - Safety standards.
All work to which this division pertains shall meet pertinent OSHA requirements.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.13)
Sec. 82-142. - Record of connections.
The city engineer shall keep a permanent and accurate record of the location, depth and direction of all new sewer connections, including such landmarks as may be necessary to make an adequate description.
(Code 1987, § 23½-4.11)
Secs. 82-143—82-155. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS

Sec. 82-156. - Discharge of unpolluted water.
(a)
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage into the sanitary sewer.
(b)
Uncontaminated cooling or condensing water shall be discharged to the storm drain system.
(Code 1987, §§ 23½-5.01, 23½-5.10)
Sec. 82-157. - Prohibited discharges.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following waters or wastes to any public sewer (refer also to sections 82-158 and 82-164):
(1)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other explosive liquid, solid or gas.
(2)
Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, to create a public nuisance, or to create any hazard in the receiving waters or in the treatment plant.
(3)
Any waters or wastes having a pH less than 6.0 or greater than 9.0 or containing heavy concentrations of salts or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
(4)
Solids or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow of sewage or other interference to the proper operation of the sewage works, such as but not limited to ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastic, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Code 1987, § 23½-5.02)
Sec. 82-158. - Restricted discharges.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes to the public sewers if it appears likely in the opinion of the city engineer that such waste can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or otherwise endanger life, limb or public property or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the city engineer will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
(1)
Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 104 degrees Fahrenheit or 40 degrees Celsius.
(2)
Any waters or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150 degrees Fahrenheit or 0 to 65 degrees Celsius.
(3)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the city.
(4)
Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
(5)
Any waters or wastes containing heavy metals in excess of the following:
EXPAND
Chromium (III) 0.5 mg/l
Lead 0.3 mg/l
Tin 0.5 mg/l
Copper 0.5 mg/l
Nickel 0.5 mg/l
Cyanide 0.5 mg/l
Cadmium 0.3 mg/l
  A combination of such substances shall not exceed 0.5 milligrams per liter in the effluent, or when blended with the wastes in the interceptor have a combined concentration in excess of 0.1 milligrams per liter when the waste reaches the treatment plant, section 82-159 notwithstanding, nor shall such wastes exert an excessive chlorine requirement to such a degree that any such material received in composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the city for such materials. Notwithstanding these upper limits, the city may require pretreatment of such waste discharges in accordance with section 82-159 to the lowest practical and reasonable levels to comply with appropriate state or federal regulatory agency requirements, either for the treatment facility influent or effluent, or if otherwise found necessary to provide satisfactory and acceptable treatment of all wastewater.
(6)
Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the city as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage to meet requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies having jurisdiction over such discharge to the receiving waters.
(7)
Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such halflife or concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
(8)
Any waters or wastes having a pH outside of the range of 6.0 to 9.0.
(9)
Materials which exert or cause:
a.
Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids, such as but not limited to fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or of dissolved solids, such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate.
b.
Excessive discoloration, such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions.
c.
The admission into the public sewers of any waters having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 200 milligrams per liter, or containing more than 200 milligrams per liter of suspended solids, or having an average daily flow of 5.0 percent of the average daily sewage flow to the plant. The admission of such waste will be subject to the review and approval of the city engineer. Where necessary in the opinion of the city engineer, the owner shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 200 milligrams per liter and the suspended solids to 200 milligrams per liter, or to reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits provided, or to control the quantities and rates of discharge of such water or wastes. Plans and specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the city engineer, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until such approval is obtained in writing.
d.
Unusual volumes of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting slugs.
(10)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or which are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of state or federal agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Code 1987, § 23½-5.03)
Sec. 82-159. - Acceptance of restricted wastes.
(a)
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers which contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in section 82-158, which in the judgment of the city engineer may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving water or which otherwise may create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
(1)
Reject the wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition before discharge to the public sewers;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; or
(4)
Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions of section 82-164.
(b)
If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the city engineer and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Code 1987, § 23½-5.04)
Sec. 82-160. - Grease traps and interceptors for oil and sand.
(a)
All new business entities in the city that generate waste water containing oil or sand must collect this waste water and discharge it into the city's sanitary sewer system. A city approved oil/sand interceptor must be installed on the sanitary sewer service line. The location of the oil/sand interceptor must be as per the Standard Plumbing Code. Existing businesses must install interceptors or be in compliance within six months from the enactment of this section.
(b)
All food service operations in the city that discharge waste water containing grease must install a grease trap or interceptor.
(c)
All grease traps and interceptors must be designed using standard engineering principles for sedimentation and floatation in gravity separators. All grease traps and interceptors must be approved by the engineering department of the city.
(d)
All newly constructed food service establishments shall be required to install a grease interceptor sized at 20 gallons per food service seat, but not less than 1,000 gallons capacity.
(e)
All existing food service establishments shall be required to install and establish grease handling traps and interceptors. Existing establishments operating without grease traps and interceptors shall have six months from the date of this section to render their establishment in compliance with this section. If an existing food service establishment cannot meet the outdoor type grease interceptor requirements, an alternate under-the-counter grease trap and interceptor may be used, if approved by the city engineer.
(f)
Each entity or establishment governed by this section shall maintain a service log reflecting the maintenance of their grease trap and interceptor and/or oil or sand interceptor. The service log shall be available in a conspicuous location for appropriate review by city personnel.
(g)
Food service operations that do not generate grease will not require a grease trap or interceptor. These facilities include, but are not limited to, the following:
Bagel shops.
Bakeries with no deep frying.
Canteens.
Coffee shops.
Delicatessens that do not require a grease hood.
Fish shops.
Fruit and vegetable markets.
Juice bars.
Meat sales.
Muffin shops.
Pretzel shops.
Sandwich shops that do not deep fry.
Any other establishment not included in the above categories that do not generate waste water containing grease or solids may request an exemption from the city engineer.
(h)
Failure to comply with this section shall result in a penalty of $100.00 per violation in the municipal court of the city as a code violation.
(Amd. of 4-4-98)
Editor's note— An amendment adopted April 4, 1998, repealed the former § 82-160 and enacted a new § 82-160 as set out herein. The former § 82-160 pertained to grease, oil and sand interceptors and derived from Code 1987, § 23½-5.05.
Sec. 82-161. - Maintenance of pretreatment facilities.
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner, at his expense.
(Code 1987, § 23½-5.06)
Sec. 82-162. - Control manhole.
(a)
It shall be required by the city that the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes install a suitable control manhole through which all industrial plant effluent shall flow. When deemed necessary, the city may require additional meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the waste.
(b)
Such manhole shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city engineer. The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Code 1987, § 23½-5.07)
Sec. 82-163. - Measurements, tests and analyses.
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property.
(Code 1987, § 23½-5.08)
Sec. 82-164. - Special agreements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed as preventing any agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Code 1987, § 23½-5.09)
Sec. 82-165. - Compliance with federal regulations.
Industries shall comply with all the requirements of 40 CFR 403.
(Code 1987, § 23½-5.11)
Secs. 82-166—82-175. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - USER CHARGE SYSTEM; INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY

Sec. 82-176. - Aid-to-construction fee.
(a)
Established; payment. In order to connect to the city's wastewater utility system, all users shall pay an aid-to-construction fee in addition to any tap fee or other fees required. The aid-to-construction fee shall be paid prior to connecting to the city's wastewater system. A written agreement between the city and each user will be executed upon payment of such fees and prior to construction of facilities.
(b)
Purpose. The aid-to-construction fee shall be set by the city council as an aid to paying the cost of expanding the city's wastewater treatment facilities, including future expansion of the plant or facilities, including legal, engineering, construction and administrative costs divided by five million gallons per day of expected wastewater use or $1.60 per gallon per day, whichever is greater.
(c)
Basis for calculation. The aid-to-construction fee shall be calculated by the city and shall be based on the average daily consumption of each type of establishment as outlined in subsection (d) of this section.
(d)
Water use standards. The following water use standards shall be used by the city in establishing the average daily consumption of users for the purpose of calculating the aid-to-construction fee. Where categories are not listed, the city engineer will calculate the project's contributory load factor (wastewater usage) and present the calculated load factor to the city council for approval.
EXPAND
Type of Establishment   Wastewater Usage
(gallons per day)
Assembly halls     3 per seat
Airports:
Employees    10 per person
Passengers     5 per person
Barbershops and beauty shops   125 per chair
Bars:
Employees    10 per person
Seats (excluding restaurant)    40 per seat
Boardinghouses   100 per room
Bowling alleys (no restaurant)   125 per lane
Camps:
Resort (luxury)   100 per person
Summer    50 per person
Day    35 per person
Travel trailer   175 per site
Churches     3 per seat
Clinics   150 per exam room
Correctional institutions   175 per bed
Country clubs    50 per member
Day care centers (no meals)    15 per person
Dental offices   200 per chair
Department stores    10 per 100 square feet
Drugstores:
No fountain service or meals   500 per store
With fountain service 2,000 per store
With meals    50 per seat
Factories:
No showers    25 per employee
With showers    35 per employee
With kitchen    40 per employee
Fairgrounds     5 per average attendance
Food service operations:
Ordinary restaurant (not open 24 hours)    70 per seat
24-hour operation   100 per seat
Drive-in    50 per car space
Carryout/fast food    75 per seat
Hospitals:
Patients   250 per bed
Employees   100 per employee
Hotels (no restaurant)   100 per room
Laundries:
Self-service   400 per machine
Commercial 1,000 per machine
Mobile home parks   300 per site
Motels (no restaurant)   100 per room
Nursing homes:
No laundry   100 per bed
With laundry   150 per bed
Offices    30 per 100 square feet
Physician's offices   200 per exam room
Picnic parks    10 per average attendance
Prisons    60 per person
Rest homes:
No laundry   100 per bed
With laundry   150 per bed
Schools:
No showers, gym or cafeteria    10 per person
With cafeteria, no gym or showers    15 per person
With cafeteria, gym and showers    20 per person
Service stations:
Fuel and oil only   300 per fueling station
Full service   850 plus 300 per fueling station
Carwash 1,000 per stall
Shopping centers (no restaurant)   200 per 1,000 square feet
Stadiums     2 per seat
Swimming pools (with showers)    10 per person
Taverns, bars and cocktail lounges (no meals):
Employees    10 per employee
Customers    40 per seat
Theatres:
Drive-in     5 per stall
Indoor     5 per seat
Residences (includes apartments, condominiums, duplexes and single-family dwellings constructed for speculative purposes)   300 per single-family dwelling unit;
125 per bedroom
  (Ord. of 1-3-90, §§ 1—4; Ord. of 3-20-90)
Sec. 82-177. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Oct. 21, 1997(2), repealed § 82-177, which pertained to industrial cost recovery charge and derived from Code 1987, § 23½-7.01.
Sec. 82-178. - General user charges.
(a)
Established. All persons discharging wastewater into the city public sewers shall be charged a sewer service charge which shall recover the operation and maintenance costs of the wastewater treatment facilities and sewer system, the local share of the capital costs of the treatment facility, and the costs of other capital improvements of the sewer facilities.
(b)
Basis. The required annual revenue from sewer charges shall include the following:
(1)
Billing costs.
(2)
Operation and maintenance costs.
(3)
Debt service.
(c)
Billing.
(1)
Residential users. The sewer user charge for residential users shall be based on water used in January, February and March and shall be adjusted annually and be effective with the April billing.
(2)
Industrial users. Industrial users shall be charged on the basis of water used monthly or sewage metered monthly throughout the year. In addition, for high-strength wastes, a surcharge will be applied as established in section 82-179.
(d)
Specific charges. Specific charges are as follows:
(1)
Billing charge. A billing charge divided equally among the billing periods will be assessed.
(2)
Operation and maintenance. The required annual revenue for operation and maintenance will be obtained from user charges and industrial surcharges. Anticipated income from industrial surcharges will be deducted from the required operation and maintenance revenue and the remainder of the required revenue will be collected from users at the calculated operation and maintenance user charge rate as follows:
User Charge Rate for Operation and Maintenance  =  ;hg;OM - S
Q
Where:
EXPAND
OM = Annual Operation and Maintenance
S = Industrial Surcharge
Q = Treatment Facility Flow
  There is no minimum charge for the operation and maintenance user charge.
(3)
Debt service. The required annual revenue for debt service will be obtained from service charges as set in a rate ordinance.
(Code 1987, § 23½-7.02)
Sec. 82-179. - Industrial wastewater surcharge.
(a)
Established. All industrial contributors whose wastewater discharges exceed 200 milligrams per liter biochemical oxygen demand or 200 milligrams per liter suspended solids shall be assessed a surcharge in addition to the user charge. The charge shall be based on the proportionally higher biochemical oxygen demand and suspended solids concentration the industry contributes to the wastewater treatment facility in excess of 200 milligrams per liter biochemical oxygen demand and total suspended solids.
(b)
Basis. The annual operation and maintenance costs for each year will be allocated as follows:
Flow Cost = 35% O&M Cost
BOD Cost = 40% O&M Cost
TSS Cost = 25% O&M Cost
The expected average daily load at the plant for the subsequent year will be determined based on previous experience.
(c)
Rate. The surcharge rate is determined as follows:
BOD Surcharge/lb. =  BOD O&M Cost
365 × BOD lb./day plant
TSS Surcharge/lb.  =  TSS O&M Cost
365 × TSS lb./day plant
(d)
Calculation. The surcharge shall be calculated as follows:
Surcharge = Q × 8.33 ((BODi - 200) × BODR + (TSSi - 200) × TSSR)
Where:
EXPAND
Q = Industry flow in billing period.
BODi = Industry average BOD in billing period.
TSSi = Industry average TSS in billing period.
BODR = BOD surcharge rate as determined pursuant to subsection (c) of this section.
TSSR = TSS surcharge rate as determined pursuant to subsection (c) of this section.
  (e)
Rate amendment. The surcharge rate will be analyzed annually at the same time as user charges are being reviewed, and if adjustment of the rates is justified new rates will be set by council action.
(f)
Wastewater monitoring. No additional monitoring will be provided under this section. Results of analyses provided for under section 82-177 will be used to determine surcharges to the industry.
(Code 1987, § 23½-7.03)
Sec. 82-180. - Rate ordinance.
(a)
Adoption. A rate ordinance based on the user charge and industrial cost recovery system described in this division shall be adopted to recover costs for administration, operation and maintenance, debt service and miscellaneous expenses of the sewer system.
(b)
Review and amendment. The rate ordinance shall be reviewed annually and amended, as necessary, to generate adequate revenue to offset all expenses of the sewer system.
(c)
Notification of users. All users shall be notified at least annually of the rates in effect for sewer service, including a breakdown of the portion of the rate which is attributable to operation and maintenance costs. Such notice shall be transmitted to the user with a monthly bill.
(Code 1987, § 23½-7.04)
Secs. 82-181—82-190. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - TRANSPORTATION AND DISCHARGE OF SCAVENGER WASTES

Sec. 82-191. - Discharge generally.
The city may require a formal permit for discharge of scavenger wastes after submission of an application on forms supplied by the city. For purposes of this division, scavenger wastes shall mean putrid or offensive matter such as the contents of privies, septic tanks or cesspools. Any other materials and substances, chemicals or chemical compounds or industrial wastes will not be permitted to be discharged into the public sewer system except as provided in this article.
(Code 1987, § 23½-6.01)
Sec. 82-192. - Point of discharge.
The discharge of scavenger wastes shall be made only at a location in the sewage treatment plant as shall be designated by the city engineer.
(Code 1987, § 23½-6.01)
Sec. 82-193. - Application for permit.
All applicants for a permit under this division shall furnish the following information with each application:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant.
(2)
The volume of scavenger wastes for each numbered vehicle.
(3)
The number of scavenger vehicles in the collection service.
(Code 1987, § 23½-6.05)
Sec. 82-194. - Disposal fee.
Scavenger wastes will be admitted into the sewer system only by approval of the city and subject to payment of fees or charges fixed by the city. Such a fee or charge shall be based upon the full capacity of each scavenger vehicle for each discharge.
(Code 1987, § 23½-6.02)
Sec. 82-195. - Right of city to reject waste or terminate discharge.
(a)
The applicant for a permit under this division shall be the owner of the vehicle discharging such wastes. Any false, misleading or untruthful statements as to the nature of material shall be cause for rejection of any further discharge from the applicant.
(b)
Discharges may also be suspended or terminated at any time by the city engineer for willful, continued or persistent violations of this article or upon such grounds as the city may deem proper.
(Code 1987, § 23½-6.03)
Sec. 82-196. - Vehicles and equipment.
All equipment such as trucks, tanks, pumps and hoses used in the collection or transportation of scavenger wastes shall be modern equipment in good repair. When more than one vehicle is used by an applicant, each vehicle shall bear an identifying number.
(Code 1987, § 23½-6.04)
Secs. 82-197—82-215. - Reserved.
