ARTICLE XI. - STREETS, SIDEWALKS, PUBLIC PLACES, AND RAILROADS

Sec. 11-1. - General authority over streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, and public places.
The mayor and city council shall have full and complete power and authority over all the streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, crossings, parks, and public lands of the city. They shall have full and complete power and authority to manage, control, direct, work, grade, drain, and pave the same, or cause the same to be done. They shall have full and complete power and authority to remove or cause to be removed any building, stall, booth, tent, steps, gate, fence, post, wire, pole, or other obstruction or nuisance thereon; and if the owner of the same shall fail or refuse to remove the same within such reasonable time as may be fixed by the mayor and city council, after notice thereto served upon such owner, his agent or tenant in charge, then the city authorities may remove the same at the owner's expense, and execution shall issue against the owner for the expenses thereof, and he shall be also subject to punishment for maintaining a nuisance. They shall have full and complete power and authority to regulate, lay out, open, grade, drain, and control new streets, lanes, alleys, crossings, and sidewalks whenever, in their discretion, it may be necessary or proper to do so. They shall have full and complete power and authority to condemn property and exercise the right of eminent domain for the purpose of laying out and opening new streets, lanes, alleys, and sidewalks and for extending, widening, straightening, grading, draining, or in any manner whatever changing the grade, street lines, and sidewalks of the city. And whenever the mayor and city council shall desire to exercise the power and authority granted in this section, they may do so whenever the land to be condemned is in the hands of an owner, trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, agent, or other fiduciary in the manner provided by Article IV, Section II, Paragraph V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia and O.C.G.A. ยง 22-1-1 et seq.
Section 11-2. - Authority to vacate, close, or abandon streets or alleys, to sell or alienate same.
The mayor and city council of Statesboro are given the authority to vacate, close, or abandon certain streets or alleys or both when in the opinion of the mayor and city council of the City of Statesboro the vacating, closing, or abandonment of the streets or alleys will not inconvenience the general public. The mayor and city council are hereby given the right to sell or alienate streets or alleys or both and to give a title thereto as in other cases of sale of municipal property.
Section 11-3. - Bonds for street improvements.
The mayor and city council shall have power and authority to issue bonds for the purpose of street improvements including, but not limited to, paving in accordance with the Constitution and general laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 11-4. - Railroad, street railway tracks running along street at time of improvement; improvement of right of way.
Any railroad or street railway having tracks running along a street at the time of the proposed improvements as provided herein shall be required by the mayor and council to pave the width of its track and two feet on each side with the same materials and in the same manner as the rest of the street, and such work shall be done under the supervision and subject to the approval of the city's engineer; and if such railroad or city railway shall not, within a period of 30 days after the service of written notice to do such work, agree in writing to comply with such order, or if the work is not completed to the satisfaction of the city engineer within such time as may be determined by the mayor and council, the mayor and council may proceed to have the work done and charge the cost and expense thereof to the railroad or street railway company, to be paid by it in cash, and the same until paid shall constitute a lien against all the property of the railroad or street railway company located in the city, which lien shall have the same rank and priority and be subject to the same method of enforcement as other liens. The mayor and council may in their discretion require the paving to be of a different material and manner of construction.
Section 11-5. - Effect of railroad right of way traversing city streets.
When the right of way of any railroad company crosses any street within the limits of the city, such railroad company shall be deemed, for all the purposes of this Charter, as the owner of the property on both sides of the street, to the extent of the full width of the right of way, irrespective of the use to which the same may be put or what portion thereof may be actually occupied by its tracks, and the railroad company shall enjoy all the rights and powers and be subject to all the penalties provided herein for individual property owners.
