ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Section 2 of an Act adopted March 2, 1995, repealed Art. III in its entirety and set out a new Art. III codified herein. The old Art. III pertained to similar subject matter and derived from 1987 Ga. Laws, page 4557. At the editor's discretion, and for purposes of clarity, the title "Officers and Employees" has been retained for Art. III although the Act adopted March 2, 1995, did not specify a title.

Section 3-1. - Executive powers of the mayor.
The mayor shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the city council;
(2)
Be the head of the city for the purpose of service of process and for ceremonial purposes and be the official spokesperson for the city and the chief advocate of policy;
(3)
Have the power to administer oaths and to take affidavits;
(4)
Sign as a matter of course on behalf of the city all written and approved contracts, ordinances, and other instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing;
(5)
Fulfill such other executive and administrative duties as the city council shall by ordinance establish; and
(6)
Establish such ad hoc committees as he or she deems necessary. Each committee shall consist of a chairperson and at least one other councilmember, with terms set and appointments being made by the mayor.
(Act of 3-2-95; Ga. L. 2000, p. 3786, § 4)
Section 3-2. - Officers and employees.
(a)
The mayor and city council shall have the power to appoint and, when necessary, to suspend a city clerk, city treasurer, city attorney, city engineer, city auditor, city manager, and such other officers and employees as are deemed necessary for the efficient administration and operation of the city government and the provision of services. The mayor and city council shall have the power to create departments, offices, and agencies necessary for the administration of government and provision of services and to delegate to a city manager or the head of a department, office, or agency the power to appoint, suspend, or remove subordinates in such department, agency, or office; provided, however, that such appointments, suspensions, or removals shall be subject to the personnel policies adopted by the mayor and city council and may further be superseded by affirmative action of the city council within 30 days of occurrence. The appointment, suspension, or removal of a city manager, any department head, the city clerk, the city engineer, city attorney, and city auditor shall be made directly by the mayor and city council, which shall establish a procedure for recruitment and review of candidates for open positions.
(b)
The mayor and city council may, in their discretion, create the administrative office of a city manager. The city manager's duties shall be established by the policy set by the mayor and city council. The city manager shall be further subject to the direction and control of the mayor as the chief executive and administrative officer of the City of Statesboro. In addition to the duties established by the policy of the mayor and city council, the mayor may delegate such administrative duties as he or she deems necessary to the city manager.
(Act of 3-2-95; Amd. of 5-18-99)
Section 3-3. - Oaths, bonds.
All officers, employees, and appointees shall take an oath to perform faithfully the duties of their respective offices and give such bond and security as may be required and set by the mayor and city council.
(Act of 3-2-95)
Section 3-4. - City clerk.
The clerk of the city council of the city shall be ex officio treasurer of the city and shall be ex officio a member of the board of tax assessors of the city, and the duties of the office shall be prescribed by the mayor and city council. The clerk shall be required to give such bond and security as the city council may fix, conditioned upon faithful performance of the duties of treasurer of the city; provided, however, that the mayor and city council shall retain authority to separate by ordinance the office of clerk and treasurer, prescribe duties of each office, fix salaries, and require bonds and security.
(Act of 3-2-95)
Section 3-5. - City manager; appointment; qualifications; compensation.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term and shall fix his or her compensation. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his or her executive and administrative qualifications and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and city council. Any vacancy in the office of city manager shall be filled by the mayor and city council.
(Ga. L. 2000, p. 3786, § 5)
Section 3-6. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
The city council shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city.
(b)
Each department head or superintendent and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
There shall be a department head or superintendent of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each department head or superintendent shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his or her department or agency.
(d)
All department heads and superintendents under the supervision of the city manager shall be appointed by the city manager. The city manager may suspend or remove any employee under his or her supervision in accordance with personnel policy or resolution.
(Ga. L. 2000, p. 3786, § 5)
Section 3-7. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the mayor and city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this Charter or by law.
(c)
The mayor and city council by budgetary measures may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by charter or by law, no member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city, except those appointed in an advisory role as a city council liaison.
(e)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed for the original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law.
(f)
Any member of a board, commission, or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of three members of the city council during a regular or called meeting of the city council.
(Ga. L. 2000, p. 3786, § 5)
