ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL

Section 2-1. - Oath of office of mayor, members of council.
Before entering upon the discharge of their respective offices, the mayor and council shall each make and subscribe the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully discharge all duties devolving on me as mayor (or councilman as the case may be) of the City of Statesboro, during my continuance in office, according to the best of my ability and understanding, so help me God."
The oath signed by each officer shall be entered upon the records of the city.
Section 2-2. - Vacancy declared in offices of mayor and council if officer changes residency to one outside city.
The mayor and each member of the council of the city shall reside within the corporate limits of the city during their terms of office. If any officer changes residency to one outside of the city, such officer's office shall be declared vacant.
Section 2-3. - Filling vacancy in office of mayor, member of council.
(a)
In case of a vacancy in the office of mayor caused by death, resignation, failure to elect, or removal of residency from the city, or for any other reason, the city will hold an election to elect a mayor for the unexpired term, in accordance with O.C.G.A. Tit. 21, Ch. 2, the "Georgia Election Code." In the event a vacancy occurs on the city council for any reason other than the expiration of the term of office, a special election to fill the unexpired term shall be held in accordance with O.C.G.A, Tit. 21, Ch. 2, the "Georgia Election Code," and the applicable terms of this Act in respect to residency and qualification. In the event a councilmember moves his or her residency from the district he or she represents, his or her office shall be automatically vacated and shall be filled in the same manner as for other vacancies.
(b)
The mayor and councilmembers elected as provided in this section shall take the oath of office prescribed in section 2-1 of this Act before entering upon the duties of office.
(Ga. L. 2000, p. 3786, ยง 2)
Section 2-4. - Mayor pro tempore; selection, function, duties.
The city council shall, at its first meeting after election and qualification, elect one of its members as mayor pro tempore, who shall, in the absence or disqualification of the mayor, be the presiding officer of the city council, shall be allowed to vote on all questions, and shall, in the absence or disqualification of the mayor, exercise all the functions of the office of mayor; and all the duties, powers, rights, and privileges conferred by this Charter upon the mayor may and shall be exercised by the mayor pro tempore in the absence or disqualification of the mayor or when the mayor, from sickness or from other reasons, is unable to act.
Section 2-5. - Meetings, minutes, proceedings of council.
(a)
The city council of the city shall be presided over at its meetings by the mayor or, in his absence, by the mayor pro tem, and a majority of the council shall be necessary to form a quorum for the transaction of business. The council shall cause to be kept in a well-bound book an accurate record of all its proceedings, bylaws, acts, orders, ordinances, and resolutions, which book shall be fully indexed and open to the inspection of anyone who is required to pay taxes in the city. The council shall hold monthly, semimonthly, or weekly sessions as it may determine, and the mayor or mayor pro tem may cause to be held such other and additional meetings as emergencies may, in his discretion, require.
(b)
Three councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact the business of the council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by a voice vote and shall be recorded in the official minutes, but any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote. The affirmative vote of a majority of the members present shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion, except as otherwise provided in this Charter.
(Ga. L. 2000, p. 3786, ยง 3)
Section 2-6. - Committees.
(a)
The mayor and city council shall create by ordinance such committees as they deem necessary to oversee the operation and provision of city services and the administration of city government. The following committees shall be standing committees: property, police, fire, streets, sanitation, natural gas, water and sewer, waste water, finance, and solid waste disposal. The mayor shall establish additional ad hoc committees as he or she deems necessary. Each committee shall consist of a chair and one other councilmember, with terms set and appointments being made by the mayor.
(b)
Each committee provided for in this section shall meet periodically with the city administrator and department heads and other appropriate employees or appointees from the committee's assigned area of services. The committee shall recommend to the mayor and city council such policies and measures deemed necessary and expedient for the health, safety, and welfare of the city or for the implementation or improvement of the provisions of city services. Each committee shall oversee and recommend the preparation of annual budgetary requests to the mayor and city council for the committee's assigned area of services. Each committee shall also review bids; review and recommend major construction and infrastructure repairs and improvements; hear policy appeals related to its department or assigned area of services; and perform such other duties required by the mayor and city council.
(Act of 3-2-95)
