ARTICLE II. - BUSINESS ETHICS

Sec. 54-16. - Policy overview.
The proper operation of county government requires that public officials and employees be independent, impartial, and responsible to the people; that government decisions and policy be made through proper channels of the government structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government.
County employees are in a unique category. Not only are they employed by the County, more importantly, they serve the citizens of Stephens County. Employees have an obligation not only to their supervisors, department heads, county commissioners, and other elected officials, but also to the public. County employees are highly visible to the community, and must adhere to high moral and ethical standards in their work activities and personal conduct. Each employee has an obligation to conduct county business within guidelines that prevent actual or potential conflicts of interest.
The purpose of these guidelines is to provide general direction and clarification on issues involving acceptable standards of operation. While it is not possible to outline specific rules to govern each employee's conduct in all aspects of the job, this section [article] of the handbook sets forth some common or frequent situations which may arise, and provides guidelines to assist employees in carrying out duties in a professional manner. Also, it is not the county's intent to dictate the nonworking time of county employees; however, when off-duty conduct has an impact on county operations or brings discredit on county government, such conduct does legitimately become a concern and can result in disciplinary action against the employee concerned. Contact the county administrator for specific information or questions about issues involving business ethics.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § B-1)
Se. 54-17. - Conflicts of interest.
No employee may have ownership of greater than one percent in a company holding a contract with Stephens County government or its affiliated agencies. No employee may acquire an interest in any contract at a time when they have reason to believe that such interest will be affected either by his/her own official actions of by the official actions of the county. No employee may hold investments in real property or business in the immediate vicinity of a county project that might appear to be speculative.
If any employee has a financial interest in a business or activity that they have reason to believe may be affected by his/her official actions or by the actions of the county, the employee must disclose the exact nature and value of the interest in writing to the appropriate persons. Any employee who has a financial interest as described above must disqualify himself/herself from participating in any official action directly affecting this interest.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § B-2)
Sec. 54-18. - Civic and political activities.
Employees are encouraged to engage in outside community activities, including civic organizations and political activities. However, unless officially authorized by the county commissioners or other elected officials, such activities should occur during nonworking time.
(1)
Civic activities. Employees should use good judgment to ensure their civic activities do not conflict with the interests of the county. When participating in civic activities, employees should not disclose information that is not available to the public, unless disclosure of such information has been authorized. Further, employees' civic activities should not affect their ability to perform the essential functions of their jobs, and off-duty conduct of the employees should not have a negative impact on county operations or bring discredit on county government.
(2)
Political activities. No employee covered under these policies may engage in political activities at the work place or during business hours. No employee may make use of county time, county equipment, or other county assets to aid a political candidate, political party, or political cause; nor may any employee use his/her county position to persuade, coerce, or intimidate any person in the interest of a political candidate, party, or cause. All employees of Stephens County have a right to be free of any and all political persuasion or coercion in relationship to their employment, and should report any such job-related activity to the county administrator.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § B-3)
Sec. 54-19. - Use of influence.
An actual of [or] potential conflict of interest occurs when an employee is in a position to influence a decision that may result in a personal gain for that employee or for a relative as a result of the county's business dealings. For the purposes of this policy, a relative is any person who is related by blood or marriage, or whose relationship with the employee is similar to that of persons who are related by blood or marriage.
No employee may use his/her position and influence in Stephens County government to promote personal gain, or to benefit friends, relatives, or associates. Personal gain may result not only in cases where an employee or relative has a significant ownership in a firm with which the county does business, but also when an employee or relative receives any kickback, bribe, substantial gift, or special consideration as a result of any transaction or business dealings involving the county.
No "presumption of guilt" is created by the mere existence of a relationship with outside firms. However; if an employee has any influence on transactions involving purchases, contracts, or leases, it is imperative that they disclose to the county administrator (or other appropriate county representative) the existence of any actual or potential conflict of interest as soon as possible, so that safeguards can be established to protect all parties. All purchasing transactions should be conducted in accordance with the county's established purchasing policies and procedures.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § B-4)
Sec. 54-20. - Gifts, gratuities, and favors.
No employee may request or receive a gift, gratuity, favor, or loan for himself/herself or another person if it tends to, or appears to, influence his/her opinion or judgments in the performance of official duties. No employee may accept any gift, gratuity, or loan from any organization, business concern, or individual with whom the employee has official relationships on business of Stephens County government.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § B-5)
Sec. 54-21. - Confidential information.
During the course of employment, employees often learn confidential and restricted information regarding county operations, activities, or personnel; about business associates and their operations; about county citizens and their personal business; or other information acquired through their job. It is county policy that such information should be discussed with any unauthorized person, either inside or outside the workplace.
Information regarding employee compensation and benefits is considered strictly confidential, and employees should not discuss such issues with other employees or individuals other than the immediate supervisor, manager, or county administrator.
Employee medical information is also required to be treated confidentially. All employees are responsible for respecting and maintaining the confidentiality of employee medical information, and to take reasonable precautions to protect such information from inappropriate disclosure.
Further, no employee may make use of or reveal any confidential information acquired through employment with the county for private gain or for the private gain of any other persons or groups. Revealing confidential information may be considered grounds for dismissal.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § B-6)
Sec. 54-22. - Outside employment or business activity.
Outside employment by full-time employees of Stephens County government is discouraged because it is likely to interfere with the employee's regular work with the county. No employee may engage in any paid employment or private business in addition to his/her employment with the county if the outside employment or private business may interfere with efficient performance of work with the county. No employee may use county equipment, materials, supplies, or property to engage in any outside business activity or employment. No employee may engage in outside business activity or employment which is performed during hours for which they are being compensated by the county, or which conflicts with or limits the county's demands on the individual with respect to the employee's availability for overtime work.
Further, outside business activity or employment is strictly prohibited whenever the outside activity conflicts with the business interest or other interests of the county, would reflect adversely on the county, or would raise the appearance, of, or potential for, a conflict of interest.
Any county employee must receive advance approval from the department hear and/or the county administrator or department head before accepting or engaging in any outside business activity or employment. If such activity should create a conflict of interest situation between the employee and the county, the employee will be expected to resign on of the positions, or termination of employment with the county may result.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § B-7)
Sec. 54-23. - Nepotism/employment of relatives.
It is the policy of Stephens County government to avoid hiring individuals who are relatives of (or who have personal relationships with) any county employee or official for positions that may involve or lead to conflicts of interest, complaints of favoritism, lack of objectivity, or morale/dissension problems in the workplace. For purposes of this policy:
• A "direct line of supervision" is defined as a situation in which the employee or official would be in a position to affect the terms and conditions of another's employment, to include making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or performance evaluation.
• A "relative" is defined as a spouse, parent, son, daughter, brother/sister, grandparent, parent-in-law, step-parent, brother-/sister-in-law, step-brother/sister, stepchild, step-grandchild, or any person whose relationship to the employee is that of a dependent, or any two persons who have established a cohabitated relationship and share the same household. This policy is not limited to relatives, and applies to other relationships between employees in which actual or potential conflicts of interest in the workplace may exist.
No county employee, or elected/appointed county official, may serve in or be appointed to a position involving direct line supervision with a relative of the county employee or official. This policy applies to new employees, promotions, demotions, transfers, and reinstatements. Employment of relatives is not prohibited by the county as long as none of the related persons are employed in a supervisory role in which they might have an effect on a relative's progress, performance, or welfare as an employee.
No employee will be penalized as a result of a departmental reorganization which places the employee in violation of this policy. However, if, by reason of marriage or cohabitation, county employees come to be in violation of this policy, one or the other must accept a job reassignment of equal or lesser pay, if available, or must elect to resign their position within 60 days of said marriage or cohabitation. If that decision is not made within 60 days by the individuals involved, county management will initiate appropriate action. Exclusion—This section does not apply to any situations which constitute a violation of this policy at the time of the policy's adoption.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § B-8)
Sec. 54-24. - Standards of conduct.
As a representative of Stephens County government, each employee is expected to observe the highest standards of professional conduct and to act responsibly, both on duty and off duty. The county expects that each employee will respect, support, and comply with ethical standards and rules of conduct established by the county for its employees and officials.
All employees should comply with county policies, and with all rules and regulations of federal, state, and local governments and of applicable regulatory agencies. Employees should show respect, courtesy, honesty, and integrity in all personal and professional interactions, and should act responsibly, in good faith, and with due care, without knowingly misrepresenting material facts.
Certain actions or forms of behavior are considered unacceptable in the workplace, and will not be tolerated. While it is not possible to list all of the actions considered unacceptable, the following are examples of misconduct which may result in disciplinary action, up to and including immediate termination of employment:
• Theft, destruction, unauthorized use, or inappropriate removal or possession of property, including property of the county, other employees, customers, or others doing business with the county.
• Possession of dangerous or unauthorized materials (such as weapons, firearms, or explosives) in the workplace.
• Disorderly conduct or violence in the workplace, including fighting, threatening, abusing, or intimidating other individuals; using physical force against another individual except in self-defense; provoking a fight; causing a disturbance; engaging in horseplay or boisterous, disruptive activity; engaging in lewd, obscene, or otherwise inappropriate conduct.
• Use of obscene, profane, hostile, threatening, abusive, or disruptive language on county property.
• Insubordination; refusal or failure to follow instructions or perform duties as assigned; or other disrespectful conduct.
• Sexual or other unlawful harassment or discrimination.
• Reporting to work under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs.
• Possession, distribution, sale, transfer, or use of illegal drugs on county property; or unauthorized use of alcohol in the workplace, while on duty, or while operating county vehicles or equipment.
• Negligence or improper conduct leading to damage of property (such as county or customer property).
• Unauthorized use of county communication systems (such as computers, e-mail, internet, telephones, voice mail, pagers, regular mail, etc.); unauthorized use of county equipment or vehicles (or of property of customers).
• Excessive absenteeism or tardiness, failure to notify employer of absence or tardiness in a timely manner, any absence without notice, or leaving a scheduled work shift without authorization.
• Dishonesty; falsification of county documents or records, including timekeeping records, personnel records, employment applications, or expense reports.
• Violation of county policies.
• Unsatisfactory performance or conduct; conduct or behavior that negatively reflects on the county.
• Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.
• Mishandling of county funds; failure to follow county procedures governing reporting or use of funds.
• Any other action which the county reasonable believes presents a negative impact to or negative reflection on the county.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § B-9)
Sec. 54-25. - Cooperation in internal investigations.
All county employees are expected to cooperate to the fullest extent possible in any internal investigation conducted by the county. Such cooperation may involve the use of a polygraph test. Failure to cooperate will be considered grounds for adverse disciplinary action, including dismissal.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § B-10
Secs. 54-26—54-30. - Reserved.
