ARTICLE XVII. - ADMINISTRATION, INTERPRETATION, ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND REMEDIES

Sec. 59-1700. - Administration and interpretation.
The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the planning director who shall be appointed by the board of commissioners and serve at its pleasure. The planning director shall be responsible for interpretation of the provisions of this chapter and for maintenance of the official zoning map.
Sec. 59-1701. - Enforcement.
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the building official, planning director or lawful designee of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 59-1702. - Building permit required.
No building, structure or sign, except as specifically exempted by this chapter, (1) shall be erected, moved, extended, enlarged or structurally altered, nor (2) shall any excavation or filling of any lot for the construction of any building be commenced until the building official has issued a building permit for such work in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
All building permits shall be issued by the building official, under guidelines set forth by the planning director, the planning commission and the board of commissioners. The building official and planning director positions may be held by the same person. In cases of uncertainty regarding whether a proposed building or structure conforms to any provisions within this resolution, the building official shall consult with the planning director for his interpretation and ruling unless both positions are held by the same person.
Building permits shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it shall have been commenced within 90 days of its date of issue, or if the work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months or more.
Sec. 59-1703. - Reserved.
Sec. 59-1704. - Penalties for violation.
Any person, firm or corporation violating, neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined (1) not less than $50.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense, or (2) as determined by the court of proper jurisdiction. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Sec. 59-1705. - Remedies.
In addition to any other penalty herein, if (1) any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or (2) any building structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of any provision of this chapter, then appropriate actions will be taken to ensure compliance.
The building official, planning director, lawful designee of the board of commissioners or any other appropriate authority may, in addition to other remedies and after due notice to the owner of the violation, (1) issue a citation for violation of this chapter requiring the presence of the violator in the court of proper jurisdiction, (2) institute an injunction or (3) take other appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use to correct or abate such violation to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land.
Sec. 59-1706. - Reserved.
