ARTICLE X. - OTHER EMPLOYMENT ISSUES

Sec. 54-161. - Dress code.
Dress, grooming, and personal cleanliness standards contribute to employee morale and affect the business image the county presents to citizens and visitors. All county employees are required to maintain a neat appearance that is appropriate for their work and reflects positively on the county. Department managers will describe requirements for attire and personal appearance for each position.
Uniforms. Stephens County government will furnish uniforms for those employees in positions requiring uniforms. Nonuniform-type clothing will not be furnished unless specifically authorized by the board of commissioners. Employees are expected to maintain uniforms in a neat, clean manner. Upon termination of employment, each employee is expected to return all county-provided uniforms to their supervisor.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-1)
Sec. 54-162. - Use, misuse, and monitoring of county property and work areas.
(a)
Overview. Stephens County provides work areas, desks, computers, vehicles, equipment, tools, supplies, and other county property for use by employees in association with their employment with the county. These items are property of the county, and employees are entrusted with use of this county property in order to perform their jobs. The county retains the right to inspect or monitor such property as a matter of routine. Under no circumstances should county property be utilized for the personal use of any employee, not may county property be used in an in appropriate or illicit manner. The misuse, abuse, or misappropriation of county equipment, supplies, or funds can lead to appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
(b)
No right to privacy. Employees should not expect privacy with respect to their use of county property. The county can make no assurances about privacy or security of any office, desk, file cabinet, locker, computer, or other county facility, and discourages storage of valuables, perishables, or other personal items. Employees should keep any personal records or personal business at home. No items of an inappropriate or illicit nature may be contained in or on county property.
(c)
Care of property. All employees are expected to follow operating instructions and safety guidelines, perform required maintenance, and exercise care in using equipment. Supervisors can provide guidance about each employee's responsibility to care for and maintain equipment used on the job. Employees should notify supervisors if any equipment or tools appear to be damaged, defective, or in need or repair.
(d)
Property inspections. Since work areas, desks, computers, telephones, vehicles, equipment, tools, supplies, and other property provided for use by employees in their jobs are county property, they are subject to monitoring and inspection by county management at any time. The county reserves the right to open and inspect any vehicles or items of any kind on county property, and the contents of same, at any time, with or without reason, notice, or consent. Employees on county property, and the contents of any item carried by employees on county property, may be subject to search.
(e)
Workplace monitoring. Workplace monitoring may be conducted by the county to ensure quality control, employee safety, security, and customer satisfaction. Employees who regularly communicate with customers may have their telephone conversations monitored or recorded. Telephone monitoring is used to identify and correct performance problems through targeted training. The county may conduct video surveillance of nonprivate workplace areas. Video monitoring is used to identify safety concerns, maintain quality control, detect theft and misconduct, and discourage or prevent acts of harassment or violence. However, the county is sensitive to the legitimate privacy rights of employees, and every effort will be made to ensure that workplace monitoring is done in an ethical and respectful manner.
(f)
Monitoring of communication systems. Computers and communications systems furnished for the use of employees are county property and, as such, may be monitored. The county reserves the right to access and search all directories, indices, diskettes, files, databases, faxes, e-mail, messages, voice mail messages, or other electronic transmissions contained in or used in conjunction with county systems, including the county's computer, voice mail, e-mail, telephone, or other communication systems, with no prior notice. This right applies both during an employee's employment with the county and after cessation of employment for any reason, including whether the cessation is voluntary or involuntary, for any reason or no reason, or by death of disability.
(g)
Business telephone use. Employees are expected to maintain a professional, courteous demeanor in telephone communications, and to incorporate proper telephone etiquette and customer service skills into all telephone conversations. To maintain consistency and effectiveness in county operations, employees should always use county-approved greetings when answering telephone calls.
(h)
Personal telephone use. Personal telephone calls during work time must be kept to a minimum. It is understood that certain personal calls are necessary; however, personal calls should be local and should be brief, as they disrupt normal work process. In the event it becomes necessary for an employee to make a personal long-distance call during the workday, the employee should take an uncompensated break and the call may not be charged to the county.
(i)
Mail systems. The use of county-paid postage for personal correspondence is not permitted. This includes stamps, machine-applied postage, downloaded postage, shipping/mailing services, delivery services, or any other type of mail system funded by the county.
(j)
Use of county vehicles for personal use. Employees who are "on call" or otherwise authorized to take an assigned county vehicle to/from their residences may, with permission from their department head, use their county vehicle for incidental personal purposes, but should refrain from extended personal use. It is absolutely prohibited for any employee to allow an unauthorized non-employee to operate a county vehicle.
(k)
Return of county equipment. Each employee is responsible for all county property issued to the employee, in the employee's possession, or in the employee's control. Such items may include vehicles, radios, equipment, tools, keys, pagers, cell phones, software, manuals, files, written materials, county funds or checks, credit cards, or other items. Employees must return all county property immediately upon request or upon termination of employment (on or before the last day of employment), and to provide Stephens County with a signed, written statement certifying that all county property has been returned. Employees may not retain any copies of such property. The county may withhold final paychecks or take other action as appropriate to recover or protect property not returned upon request.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-2)
Sec. 54-163. - Internet policy.
Stephens County government provides internet service as a tool to assist authorized employees in performing their work efficiently. This tool, and the work product it contains, is the property of Stephens County and should be used for business purposes only. Employees who do not require access to the internet as part of their official duties may not access the internet using county equipment under any circumstances.
(1)
De minimis use. The county will allow "de minimis" personal use of the internet, meaning that a limited amount of personal communications, while not sanctioned, is not prohibited by this policy. Generally, de minimis personal use includes such uses as adding a personal comment to an official e-mail, sending a short personal note to a colleague, or other personal interactions that are a routine part of day-to-day business interaction. Reasonable judgment should be applied to individual circumstances. The county retains sole discretion to determine what use is considered de minimis and to discipline for all other use.
(2)
Personal internet accounts. No personal internet accounts (paid for by the employee) may be accessed using county equipment during regular work hours at any time.
(3)
Inappropriate use. Use of the internet is a privilege, not a right, and inappropriate use will result in disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
a.
"Inappropriate use" is defined as a violation of the intended use or purpose of the internet authorization, such as use of recreation games or chain letters, attempts to gain unauthorized access, harassment, threats, racial slurs or epithets directed to any racial group, advocacy of the supremacy of any racial group, or any other actions that are disruptive to the internet or internet users.
b.
Inappropriate use includes obscene activities or violations of generally accepted social standards for the use of a publicly owned and operated communication system. Obscene activities include, but are not limited to, the receipt, storage, or distribution of profanity or other offensive language and sexually explicit materials, including nudity and other graphic or textual depictions of sexually explicit activities.
c.
Inappropriate use also includes illegal activities, or any violations of federal, state, or local law.
d.
Inappropriate use also applies to copyright violations. Most information on the internet is copyrighted, or protected under the law. It is illegal to reproduce or distribute copyrighted information regardless of the source. Violation of copyright laws can also involve heavy fines.
(4)
No right to privacy. An employee's rights while accessing the internet by use of county property do not include the right to privacy. The county reserves the right to monitor in any way the activities of employees while accessing the internet. All internet activity is subject to log-in and monitoring to provide a chronological history of events and to maintain audit trails of usage. The county may automatically monitor internet activity via software.
(5)
Authorization. County management will determine which employees will require authorization for internet access in association with their job. Each internet account will be issued to one authorized user only. Each user is responsible for all activity in the assigned account, and for maintaining confidentiality of the password.
(6)
Precautionary measures. Individual users must be aware of, and at all times attempt to prevent, potential county liability in their use of the internet. All outgoing messages which do not reflect the official position of the county must include the following disclaimer. "The opinions expressed here are my own and do not necessarily represent those of the Stephens County government." Internet users are advised not to use the Internet for any purpose that would reflect negatively on the county or its employees.
Employees may find some information on the internet offensive or otherwise objectionable. Individuals should be aware that the county has no control over and, therefore, cannot be responsible for the content of information available on the internet.
Files are not to be downloaded from the internet without express consent by the department head. All files expressly approved for downloading must first be scanned by virus detection software. Resources of any kind that require a fee must not be accessed or downloaded without prior approval of the department head. Resources that are not used for a clear county purpose may not be accessed or downloaded. Websites or other electronic communication databases may not be created or implemented without prior approval of the department head and review by the county administrator.
Violations of county policy regarding internet use may result in disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-3)
Sec. 54-164. - E-mail policy.
(a)
The county uses electronic communications as a tool to facilitate communications, promote increased efficiency, and reduce costs. Any form of an e-mail system installed on county equipment is for county business purposes only. Employees are accountable for their use of electronic communications just as they are for other conduct and communications in the workplace.
(b)
The county reserves the right to monitor e-mail messages in any way. The county may enter the e-mail system to review, copy, or delete any messages, to disclose such messages to others, and to use the messages to support disciplinary or other action.
(c)
Employees should not assume that messages are confidential, even if a password is used. For private communications, employees should not use the e-mail system. All e-mail messages are considered to be public records, and the public has a right to examine public records. E-mail should not be used as a communication tool if one is concerned about public disclosure or internal disclosure. The county will view the appropriateness of any communication on the basis of how it would have been perceived and dealt with had it been conducted by telephone, in person, or in writing.
(d)
Employees should know the source of e-mail before attempting to open messages. Computer viruses are commonly spread by embedding the virus within e-mail attachments. Virus scanning software is installed on personal computers with e-mail capabilities. Each employee is responsible to ensure that virus-scanning software has been installed on his/her computer, and is operative.
(e)
The following represent prohibited actions:
(1)
Use of e-mail should be reserved for official county business and not for personal use.
(2)
Racism, sexism, and other inappropriate behavior are not tolerated by Stephens County, including in the e-mail environment.
(3)
Confidential and sensitive issues should not be communicated via e-mail.
(4)
E-mail is not to be used to create, send, or copy any offensive, harassing, or disruptive message.
(5)
E-mail is not to be used to send, receive, or download copyrighted materials, financial information, or similar materials without prior authorization.
(6)
Communications that would be inappropriate under other county policies are equally unacceptable if delivered via electronic communication, including harassing or discriminatory comments, breaches of confidentiality, and insubordinate statements.
(7)
E-mail is not to be used to solicit for commercial ventures, religious or political causes, outside organizations, or other nonjob-related solicitations.
(8)
Employees are not authorized to retrieve or read any e-mail messages that are not sent to them.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-4)
Sec. 54-165. - County drivers.
All employees who are required to drive a Stephens County vehicle in the performance of their jobs, or who drive a personal vehicle while conducting county business, must adhere to the county driving policy as described in this handbook. Any employee who violates any of the requirements described herein will lose his/her right to operate a county vehicle, and will be subject to possible termination for failure to meet the minimum requirements of his/her job.
(1)
Requirements for all drivers. Any employee who operates a vehicle while acting within the scope of his/her duties as a county employee must meet the following requirements:
a.
Must meet all current state driver's licensing requirements including, but not limited to, having a valid and current driver's license and/or commercial driver's license, if applicable.
b.
Must immediately report any change in the status of the driver's license to their supervisor.
c.
Must immediately report any accident or incident (a) involving a county vehicle, or (b) occurring when the employee is operating a personal vehicle while conducting county business.
d.
Must immediately report all traffic citations received from any source for any driving offense.
e.
Must maintain a driving record as described below:
1.
No major violations in the last three years, which includes, but is not limited to, eluding a police officer, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, reckless driving, license suspension and/or revocation, vehicular homicide, or leaving the scene of an accident.
2.
No more than two speeding violations in the last three years.
3.
No more than one at-fault accident in the last three years.
4.
No more than two accidents in the last three years.
5.
No convictions of a drug-related offense of any kind.
6.
No felony convictions involving a vehicle.
f.
Must submit to a drug and alcohol screening immediately following any accident while operating a county vehicle.
(2)
Process to approve drivers. An individual may be designated to drive a county vehicle, or to drive a personal vehicle while acting within the scope of his/her duties, through employment, transfer, promotion, or volunteer work. The appropriate department head must verify that the employee possesses a valid, current state driver's license with endorsements appropriate for the vehicle(s) to be driven. The department head may also request a driver's history report. After evaluating the driving background of the proposed driver, the department head will submit a recommendation regarding approval to the county administrator. If both the department head and the county administrator approve the submission, the employee will be eligible to drive county vehicles or to drive personal vehicles while acting in the scope of their duties. If the proposed driver has not met the criteria, the department head must take action to ensure the rejected applicant does not drive any vehicles while acting within the scope of his/her duties.
Stephens County will periodically check the driving record of each employee required to drive a vehicle to verify that the employee is in compliance with county policy. In addition, any supervisory personnel who become aware of an employee who has violated any of the requirements listed above must immediately report the violation to the county administrator. Supervisors who intentionally withhold information of violations will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including possible termination.
(3)
Driver responsibilities. All individuals who operate a vehicle while acting within the scope of their duties as a county employee are responsible for the following:
a.
Knowing and obeying all traffic laws of the state and/or the jurisdiction in which the vehicle is being operated.
b.
Obtaining and/or maintaining a current and valid state driver's license.
c.
Operating county vehicles in a safe manner at all times.
d.
Wearing safety belts when the vehicle is being driven, and ensuring that all passengers are wearing safety belts when the vehicle is being driven. Vehicles include all pickup trucks effective July 1, 2010.
e.
The use of seatbelts is required on all mobile equipment that is equipped with seatbelts and a rollover protection device.
f.
Using county vehicle only for the purpose of conducting Stephens County business, except as authorized by appropriate county officials, and as otherwise allowed by IRS regulations regarding de minimis use, and with prior approval (such as a stop for a personal errand between a business delivery and the employee's home, or an on-call employee commuting to/from residence); or if personal use of a county vehicle is established as a condition of the employee's compensation agreement. Noncounty employees are not allowed to operate the county vehicle.
g.
Immediately reporting any change in the status of their driver's license.
h.
Immediately reporting traffic citations received from any source for any violation.
i.
Immediately reporting any accident involving a county vehicle, or occurring during the course of county business, to appropriate personnel.
j.
Conducting pretrip safety inspections:
1.
Examine assigned vehicle using vehicle guidelines; ensure vehicle is in safe operating condition;
2.
Keep vehicle interior and exterior clean and neat;
3.
Report any damage or operating problem immediately; and report anything out of ordinary to supervisor.
k.
Never pick up hitchhikers. Only county-affiliated passengers are allowed in the vehicle.
l.
Leaving county vehicles on site at assigned county facilities (unless waived by supervisor). Transportation to/from site is the responsibility of the employee.
m.
Not driving county vehicles outside the state without prior approval of the employee's immediate supervisor.
n.
Ensuring no alterations to the county vehicles are made (i.e., additional audio equipment, disabling of alarm systems, bumper stickers, cutting seatbelts, etc.).
Every employee in charge of any vehicle owned by the county must exercise care in the operation of that vehicle and avoid accidents; disregard of this obligation will be grounds for discharge.
Driving a county vehicle while intoxicated or under the influence of a controlled or illegal substance will result in immediate termination. If an employee is cited for driving while intoxicated or under the influence of a controlled or illegal substance while on other than county business, the employee must take a defensive driving test with 30 calendar days of the citation. Evidence of registration and completion of the defensive driving class must be provided to the employee's supervisor. In the event that the employee's driver's license is suspended, the employee will not be allowed to drive the assigned county vehicle, will result in inability to perform the assigned job. At its discretion, the county may elect to provide work which does not require driving until the driver's license is reinstated or final disposition is obtained. A second offense will result in employee dismissal.
Incurring an avoidable vehicle accident in any 12-month period will result in a written reprimand. A second avoidable accident in this period will result in a written reprimand and the requirement that the employee complete an approved driver training course at the employee's expense. Refusal to take this course, or to complete the course, will result in termination of employment. A third preventable accident will result in termination of employment.
Failure to report an accident involving a county vehicle, failure to report a change in driver's license status, or failure to report a traffic citation may result in immediate revocation of the employee's approval to drive a county vehicle, and may result in suspension without pay pending a review of the employee's motor vehicle record and driving qualifications. If at that time the employee is not qualified for approval to drive a county vehicle, and the employee's position is such that driving is a required duty, the employee may be dismissed.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-5; Ord. of 8-10-2010)
Sec. 54-166. - Security clearances.
In certain employment areas, such as accounting, finance, public safety, or other areas where the public has a compelling interest in the security of property or life, all applicants for employment, promotion, or transfer may be required to provide additional personal information that would not be needed in other areas of employment. Such applicants/employees may also be subject to additional background screening, which may include driver's history reports, criminal history reports, credit reports, or other review. County employees may also be required to meet the requirements to be bonded under a blanket policy at the County's expense, to satisfy the requirements of state and federal agencies.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-6)
Sec. 54-167. - Smoke-free workplace policy.
Stephens County is dedicated to providing a healthy, safe, and comfortable environment for all employees and visitors. In keeping with this goal, smoking and/or the use of tobacco of any kind is not permitted throughout county facilities. This includes, but is not limited to, smoking of cigarettes, cigars, and pipes. This policy applies to all employees, visitors, contractors, and customers.
(1)
Prohibited areas. Use of tobacco is prohibited in any enclosed county facility, including offices, common work areas, conference rooms, lobbies, break rooms, rest rooms, hallways, stairs, elevators, or any other enclosed areas. In addition, employees are prohibited from smoking while performing their job duties, regardless of whether they work indoors or outdoors. In all cases, smoking is prohibited in any area in which a fire hazard exists, and in any area in which smoking is prohibited by state or federal law.
(2)
Permitted areas. County management will identify designated smoking areas with "Smoking Permitted" signs. Such locations may only occur outside buildings, and away from any public entrances to ensure that secondhand smoke does not enter the enclosed area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or any other means.
Employees are expected to exercise common courtesy with regard to the county's smoke-free workplace policy, and to respect the needs and sensitivities of coworkers. Smokers have a special obligation to keep smoking areas litter-free, and are not to abuse break of work rules.
(3)
Assistance for smokers. Stephens County promotes employee health, and urges smokers to contact the Lung Association, the county health department, local medical center, or other resources for information about smoking-cessation programs.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-7)
Sec. 54-168. - Solicitation policy.
Stephens County prohibits the solicitation, distribution and posting of materials on or at county property by any employee or non-employee, except as may be permitted by this policy. To avoid disruption of county operations, the following rules apply to solicitation or distribution of literature on county property:
(1)
Non-employees. Persons not employed by the county may not solicit or distribute literature on county property at any time, for any purpose.
(2)
Employees. County employees may not solicit or distribute literature for any purpose during working time or in working areas. Working time includes the working time of both the employee doing the soliciting/distributing and the employee to whom the soliciting/distributing is being directed. Working time includes all time when an employee's duties require that they be engaged in work tasks, but does not include meal breaks or scheduled breaks. Working areas include all areas of county property.
The sole exceptions to this policy are charitable and community activities supported by county management and county-sponsored programs related to county services.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-8)
Sec. 54-169. - Inclement weather and emergency situations.
In the event of inclement weather the following will apply:
(1)
The county administrator and any one commissioner will make the decision to open county offices late or not to open the offices because of inclement weather. If the administrator is not available, the county finance director or public works director will assist in the decision to open county offices late or not to open.
(2)
If the individuals set forth above determines to open late, employees who report for work at the specified time will not be required to take leave or leave without pay. If the employee does not feel comfortable or safe in thief [their] effort to go to or from work they do not have to report; however, they will either have to take a leave or leave without pay for the day.
(3)
If the decision is made to close for the day as a result of weather or weather-related shutdowns, employees will not be required to report, will not be charged leave and will be compensated for the day.
(4)
When inclement weather makes roads hazardous, employees should find a safe means of transportation to work. However, employees are not required to take unreasonable risks.
* Note: Does not include staff specifically requested to report or who have been designated in advance as essential in dealing with such emergencies.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-9)
Sec. 54-170. - Posting of management information.
The county maintains a centralized bulletin board or other central location for posting/conveying official county information from management to employees, such as notices from federal or state agencies, safety information, legal notices, benefit information, job announcements, or information of special interest. Employees are responsible for reading all information posted. No personal announcements may be posted in this location.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-10)
Sec. 54-171. - Travel expense reimbursement.
Stephens County will bear the cost of all reasonable and authorized expenses incurred by employees or county officials while traveling on official county business. All travel at the expense of the county must be approved by the department manager and/or county administrator prior to the time such expenses are incurred.
(1)
Travel requisitions and approval. Employees should complete appropriate forms and follow established procedures to request and receive approval for travel prior to incurring any expenses. Requests should include all available information concerning purpose, location, dates, and costs of the event, and should be submitted as far in advance as possible. Departmental needs and budgetary constraints will be considered to determine if the requested travel event is appropriate.
(2)
Travel advances. If the travel event is approved, the employee may submit a travel advance request no less than one week prior to departure. Travel advances will be limited to maximum allowable amounts multiplied by the number of days.
(3)
Reimbursable expenses. Employees are expected to show good judgment and proper regard for economy in the matter of travel expense. Typical expenses that may be reimbursed by the county include transportation, lodging, meals, telephone, parking, and registration fees. Other expenses require specific consideration and approval. The county may establish limitations for reimbursement of certain expenses, and employees should review current reimbursement guidelines prior to incurring travel expenses.
(4)
Submittal of expense reports. After completion of travel, the employee must complete the county's designated expense report form and submit with original receipts to the department head for approval. Any travel funds advanced to the employee must be reflected on the expense report. Expense reports are considered due on the first working day after completion of travel. If an employee should fail to return a completed expense report, any amount disbursed as a travel advance will be considered income to the employee and will be reported to the Internal Revenue Service as such.
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-11)
Sec. 54-172. - Housekeeping.
Each employee is responsible for assisting to uphold a level of professionalism in the workplace and is requested to assist in maintaining work areas. Employees' desks, offices, and immediate work areas should be kept neat and free from clutter. Employees are asked to assist in keeping common areas (such as lobbies, conference rooms, break rooms, supply rooms, etc.) clean and orderly. Any food or beverage containers should be removed from desks at the end of each workday, and accidental spills should be cleaned immediately.
Kitchen/break room facilities are provided as a benefit and convenience to all employees. Each employee is responsible for cleaning any dishware, silverware, or other items used. All employees who use kitchen or break room areas are expected to help with cleaning of coffee machines, countertops, refrigerators, microwaves, or other facilities. Any food stored in kitchen cabinets or refrigerator must be in an appropriate covered container, and food must be removed or discarded within a reasonable period of time. Employees should be aware that food or personal items left in the kitchens for any length of time may be thrown away (including containers).
(Ord. of 5-26-2009, § J-12)
