ARTICLE XII. - CI—COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 59-1200. - Purpose and intent.
The commercial industrial district is established for the purpose of reserving certain areas, with adequate water and sewerage facilities and access to major arterial highways, for industrial operations. This district is not to be placed in close proximity to residential and other districts that may be damaged by the objectionable circumstances such as: the emission of noise, vibration, smoke, dust, gas, fumes, odors, radiation, large vehicles, heavy traffic, create fire or explosion hazards or have other objectionable conditions. Certain industries having an open storage characteristic where goods or materials are stored in an open or transportable container, or which are most appropriately located within an industrial area, are also included within this district.
Sec. 59-1201. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Permanent sawmills, lumber and wood products processing or storage, pulpwood yards.
(b)
Textile manufacturing, processing, fabrication, assembly.
(c)
Metals, cement, asphalt, concrete, plastics or wood products manufacturer, fabrication, production or building materials.
(d)
Truck and cargo transfer terminals, bus and truck garages.
(e)
Wholesale building supply and material storage or sales and warehousing, including mini-storage and mini-warehousing facilities.
(f)
Bottling works and ice manufacturing plants.
(g)
Recycling facilities which recycle non-waste related, non-hazardous materials and materials which will not produce noxious odors.
(h)
Baking and other food processing plants.
(i)
Building material or other outdoor storage yards, except junkyards, provided that the goods or building materials stored do not create or cause noxious odors.
Sec. 59-1202. - Conditional uses.
modified
(a)
Any other industrial use that the planning commission or board of commissioners determines not to be dangerous, offensive, unhealthy, nor detrimental to the community that is not listed as prohibited activities or uses in the county.
(b)
Airports or airfields, after planning director review and county commission approval.
(c)
Mining, dredging, sand or gravel removal operations and any other ancillary uses to a quarry, after planning commission determines not to be dangerous, offensive, unhealthy, nor detrimental to the community that is not listed as prohibited activities or uses in the county.
(d)
Storage of petroleum products, but only after the location of the premises has been approved by the EMA director and, further provided that residential homes shall not be located within 100 yards of the location.
(e)
Public recreation facilities, such as racetracks and outdoor firing ranges.
(f)
Public services uses subject to the review, approval and conditions of the planning commission. These uses include, but are not limited to: substations, transformers, telephone exchanges, pump houses, etc.
(g)
Adult entertainment.
(h)
Heavy machine and equipment sales, service, rental and repair.
(i)
Transportation, communication and utility facilities.
(j)
Waste recycling centers and composting production facilities and operations, if assurances and controls are in place to control any odors emanating from any such facility in addition to meeting the criteria for approval of a conditional use set forth in this chapter. An example of an additional assurance may include but not be limited to, an engineer's certification regarding the lack of odor.
Sec. 59-1203. - Prohibited uses.
Prohibited uses include, but are not limited to crematoriums.
Sec. 59-1204. - Building requirements.
modified
The minimum area, yard, setback and building requirements in the CI district are as follows:
(1)
Lot size—Minimum: The minimum lot size shall be determined by the setbacks called for in this article of these regulations.
(2)
Building setbacks—Minimum:
EXPAND
Front yard - 80 feet on parkways;
- 80 feet on state highways;
- 80 feet on all other collector streets;
Side yard - 25 feet;
Rear yard - 25 feet.
  Rear and side setbacks when abutting a residential district, an additional 100 feet of landscaped evergreen vegetative buffer shall be required. Where the CI district abuts a residential district, a buffer shall be required as presented in section 59-1416 of these regulations. Additional requirements for access, curb cuts, deceleration and acceleration lanes, traffic signals, water, sewer, etc., will be determined and required by the planning commission on an individual site basis.
(3)
Maximum building height. Buildings designed for human occupancy shall not be higher than 75 feet. Non-occupied buildings may be permitted if no hazard or other adverse effect is created for adjacent properties as determined by the planning commission after public notice and hearing.
(4)
Additional requirements. The planning commission and board of commissioners reserve the right to set special requirements for certain industries which may require greater screening and buffer requirements, thereby creating greater lot or area requirements.
(5)
Corner lot ingress/egress: 100 feet from intersection.
(6)
Acceleration, deceleration and turn lanes, as called for by the planning commission. The planning commission shall consider recommendations by law enforcement and county fire services and may consult traffic studies and data to determine if such lanes are necessary to protect the safety of the public.
(7)
Location with access to a major thoroughfare in the county.
Sec. 59-1205. - Full disclosure.
Commercial or industrial businesses shall, as part of their building permit or license application process, provide the planning director with full disclosure of all hazardous or dangerous products used in their commercial or industrial processes together with an explanation of safety measurers, disposal measures and emergency medical and evacuation procedures. The planning director shall then forward this information to the emergency management director, the fire department and the sheriff's department.
Sec. 59-1206. - Reserved.
