Chapter 3 - UNIFORM POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE CALLING AND CONDUCTING OF PUBLIC HEARINGS RELATING TO VARIOUS COUNTY LAND USE ORDINANCES, ZONING AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES

Sec. 3-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Zoning and Land Use Public Hearing Policies and Procedures Ordinance of Stephens County, Georgia" (hereinafter referred to as the "chapter").
(Ord. No. 2010-4, 1-26-2010)
Sec. 3-2. - Intent.
As the governing body of Stephens County, Georgia ("Stephens County"), it is the intention of the Stephens County Board of Commissioners ("governing body") to adopt a chapter enacting uniform practices and procedures to govern the calling and conducting of public hearings relating to Stephens County's various land use and zoning ordinances which now exist or which may be hereafter enacted, including without limitation, those hearings required by the Georgia Zoning Procedures Law (O.C.G.A. ยง 36-66-5 et seq., as amended).
(Ord. No. 2010-4, 1-26-2010)
Sec. 3-3. - Definitions.
The following terms when used in this chapter with the first letter capitalized shall have the meanings given in this section:
Person. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, institution, public official or public body including any trustee, assignee or other representative and including, without limitation, the governing body and the planning committee.
Property Owner. The person or persons who own property being considered under any zoning or land use ordinance.
Zoning or Land Use Ordinance. Any zoning ordinance, the subdivision regulations or land use regulations, adopted as heretofore or hereafter amended and any other Stephens County land use ordinance which may by its terms provide that this chapter shall be applicable thereto.
Zoning Ordinance. Any ordinance or resolution of Stephens County, whether now existing or hereafter enacted, which falls within the definition of "zoning ordinance" provided by the Zoning Procedures Law (O.C.G.A. ยง36-66-3 (5)) or any successor provision thereto or any ordinance or resolution of Stephens County that requires compliance with the Zoning Procedures Law.
Zoning Procedure Law. The State of Georgia Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. title 36, chapter 66, enacted by Georgia Laws 1985, page 1139, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2010-4, 1-26-2010)
Sec. 3-4. - Applicability.
These policies and procedures shall apply to all hearings of the governing body relating to any of the following:
(a)
The adoption of any Zoning or Land Use Ordinance;
(b)
The adoption of any amendment to or restatement of any Zoning or Land Use Ordinance which changes the text of the ordinance;
(c)
The adoption of any amendment to the official zoning map which rezones property from one zoning classification to another;
(d)
The issuance of any conditional use permit under any Zoning or Land Use Ordinance;
(e)
The grant of any variance under any Zoning or Land Use Ordinance;
(f)
The adoption of any amendment to or restatement of this chapter; and
(g)
Any other action requiring a public hearing pursuant to the Zoning Procedures Law.
(Ord. No. 2010-4, 1-26-2010)
Sec. 3-5. - Procedures for adoption of amendment of text of Zoning or Land Use Ordinances and this chapter.
(a)
Initiation of changes. The governing body may from time to time, on its own motion, or, in its discretion, upon recommendation of staff or any other Person, initiate a proposal to adopt, or to amend or restate the text of, any Zoning or Land Use Ordinance or to amend or restate this chapter.
(b)
Submission of proposals. Any proposal to adopt, or to amend or restate the text of, any Zoning or Land Use Ordinance or to amend or restate this chapter which the governing body initiates shall be submitted by the governing body to staff for review and recommendation.
(c)
Call of public hearings. Upon receipt of any such proposal the governing body shall set the dates, times, and places for holding a public hearing before the governing body to consider the proposed action. No final action may be taken by the governing body until after the public hearing of the governing body has been concluded.
(d)
Notice of public hearings. After the date, time and place for a public hearing has been set, the governing body shall cause notice of the hearing to be published at least one time in a newspaper of general circulation in Stephens County at least 15 days but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the public hearing. Such published notice shall include, as a minimum, the purpose, location, date and time of the public hearing.
(Ord. No. 2010-4, 1-26-2010)
Sec. 3-6. - Conduct of public hearings.
All public hearings held by the governing body to which this ordinance applies shall be held in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
The presiding officer shall open the public hearing by stating the matter being considered at the hearing. At this time the presiding officer may summarize the public hearing procedures.
(2)
The applicant will present a description of the proposal, and any applicable background material.
(3)
Persons who support the proposal will be asked to comment first. The Person initiating the proposal or his designated agent (the "proponent") may, upon recognition and upon statement of name, address and relationship to the matter, present and explain the proposal. The proponent shall be required to attend the public hearing unless written notice of hardship is received prior to the hearing. Failure of the proponent to attend the public hearing, except in cases of hardship, may be due cause for dismissal or denial of such application. After completion of the presentation of the proponent, other persons who support proposal will be asked to comment, and will be allowed to speak in support of the proposal upon recognition and upon identification of the Person's name, address, and relationship to the matter.
(4)
Persons who oppose the proposal will next be asked to comment. All interested Persons, after being recognized and providing their names, addresses and relationship to the matter, shall be afforded an opportunity to address the proposal.
(5)
The proponent shall have an opportunity for summary remarks rebuttal concerning the proposed application.
(6)
The presiding officer, in his discretion, may impose time limitations on comments of each Person not less than ten minutes, and may require that each Person (other than any Stephens County official or his agent) who desires to speak sign in at the beginning of the meeting and indicate whether such Person will be speaking for or against the proposal
(7)
All public comments having been heard, the members of the governing body considering the application may discuss the matter among themselves. During this discussion period, the members of the body may call on the proponent or other Persons to clarify points made previously, to answer questions or to provide additional information. Such Persons may respond upon recognition.
(8)
Public hearings may be delayed, rescheduled or continued to another time and date, provided announcement is given at the time and place of the scheduled hearing, of the new time, place and date of the public hearing, which announcement shall constitute public notice for the hearing. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the presiding officer shall adjourn the hearing.
(9)
The presiding officer or the applicant may require that any public hearing be transcribed by a court reporter provided that such Person has made arrangements with the court reporter to have the court reporter attend and transcribe the hearing. All costs of any court reporter shall be borne by the applicant.
(Ord. No. 2010-4, 1-26-2010)
Sec. 3-7. - Severability.
Should any article, section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof which is not specifically declared to be invalid.
(Ord. No. 2010-4, 1-26-2010)
Sec. 3-8. - Public availability.
Printed copies of this chapter shall be made available for distribution to the general public.
Sec. 3-9. - Repealer.
This chapter shall supersede all portions of any ordinances or resolutions which are in conflict herewith.
(Ord. No. 2010-4, 1-26-2010)
Sec. 3-10. - Effective date.
This chapter shall become effective immediately upon its adoption.
(Ord. No. 2010-4, 1-26-2010)
