ARTICLE XI. - HOTELS, LODGINGHOUSES AND ROOMINGHOUSES[9]
Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Cross reference— Hotel or motel occupancy tax, § 146-76 et seq.
Land development code references— Housing code, § 8-2181; housing code requirements for roominghouses, boardinghouses, residence hotels, single room occupancy residences and buildings with special uses, app. F, § 26.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 30-751. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Roominghouse means a house or building in which sleeping or eating facilities or both are provided for the accommodation of five or more persons who are charged for boarding or rooms or both, by the day, week, month or for each meal. This definition of a roominghouse shall not include an apartment house, which means a building wherein living facilities, such as a living room, bedroom, kitchen and bath, are provided for a person or family and where the building is capable of accommodating two or more families who would have separate living facilities. Any house or residence called an apartment shall be considered a roominghouse under this definition if the house or apartment is used to room or board five or more persons who are charged for board or rooms and who do not have separate living facilities, such as living room, bedroom, kitchen and bath.
(Code 1977, § 14-6171)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-752. - Permit for bellhops and house detectives in hotels.
(a)
Required. It shall be unlawful for any employee of a hotel performing the duty of a bellhop or house detective to continue or begin this employment without first obtaining a permit before entering or continuing upon this employment.
(b)
Application. Each employee and prospective employee as a bellhop or house detective shall file a statement with the department of police to the effect that such person is or expects to be employed in one of the employments named, stating such person's correct name and giving such person's address, together with such person's age and former employment, and any other information required by the police chief. The application shall be in writing and shall be filed with the police chief. The statement or application shall have endorsed thereon a statement or shall be accompanied by a letter signed by three reputable citizens, not related by blood or marriage to the applicant, who are residents of the city, none of whom have any interest in the hotel where the employee is to work or serve, attesting to the good character of the applicant.
(c)
Investigation; issuance or denial. Upon the filing of an application for a permit under subsection (b) of this section, the police chief shall fingerprint each applicant and cause an investigation to be made as to the good character of the applicant and shall issue a permit or deny the application for cause. If the police chief denies the application for a permit, the action shall be appealable to the license review board within ten days after notice of the denial. Upon the receipt of notice of appeal, the board shall fix a time and place for a public hearing thereon. At the public hearing testimony shall be heard for or against the granting of the permit. After the hearing, the board shall make its favorable or unfavorable report to the mayor at its next regular meeting, and the mayor shall either adopt or reject the report of the board. However, the mayor, license review board or police chief shall have no authority to issue a permit to any applicant who has been convicted of any of the following enumerated offenses, federal or state: murder, voluntary manslaughter, mayhem, rape, indecent molestation of children, assault and battery, kidnapping, stabbing and shooting, blackmail, sending or delivering threatening letters, peeping Tom, eavesdropping, drugs, prostitution, procuring for prostitution, unlawful alcoholic beverages sales, white slavery, burglary, robbery, theft, sex perversion or any section of this Code or other city ordinance dealing with prostitution or procuring for prostitution committed not more than five years prior to the date of application for a permit or five years from the termination of any penal servitude by the applicant for a conviction of any of such crimes, whichever shall have last occurred.
(d)
Issuance. If an application is approved by either the police chief, license review board or mayor, the police chief shall issue a permit to the applicant.
(e)
Employing person without permit. The manager and person in charge of the hotel are prohibited from employing any person who is denied a permit under this section, and any person violating this subsection shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction the license to operate the hotel where the person is employed shall be subject to revocation by the mayor.
(f)
Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any bellboy or house detective to continue in or enter upon the employment provided in subsection (a) of this section in violation of this section. It shall further be unlawful and shall be grounds for the revocation of or refusal to issue the permit if, in filing the statement, a fictitious name or address or any false information is given by the applicant. It shall be unlawful for the manager or person in charge of any hotel to fail to keep a book or list showing the correct name and address of employees or to refuse to exhibit it to any member of the department of police under penalty of subjecting the license to operate the hotel wherein the offense occurred to revocation by the mayor.
(g)
Revocation. Any bellhop or house detective issued a permit under this section who shall subsequently be convicted of any of the offenses set forth in subsection (c) of this section shall be subject to revocation of the permit after notice and hearing. For the purposes of this subsection notice and hearing shall consist of a written notice of a hearing for revocation setting forth the grounds for the revocation, mailed to the last known address of the licensee ten days prior to a hearing upon the revocation before the license review board. Upon proof of the charges before the license review board, the board shall revoke the permit.
(Code 1977, § 14-6175)
Sec. 30-753. - Locking doors to upper floors during certain hours.
It shall be unlawful for any person operating a public roominghouse or hotel located on the second floor or other upper floors of a building with stairways leading thereto to keep the doors located in the stairways or in the halls to which the stairways lead locked between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight. During those hours the doors shall remain unlocked so that members of the department of police shall have free and unrestricted access thereto when necessary to suppress disorder or detect crime.
(Code 1977, § 14-6176)
Secs. 30-754—30-765. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 30-766. - Required.
Any person desiring to open or operate a hotel, lodginghouse, roominghouse or similar place shall, before opening or operating this house or place, obtain a license according to the procedures established in this division.
(Code 1977, § 14-6172)
Sec. 30-767. - Application.
(a)
Application for a license required under this division to open or operate any such business shall be in writing and shall be filed with the department of police. The application shall state the location of the desired business and the name, residence and occupation of the applicant and shall be signed by three citizens of the city certifying to the character of the applicant. The application when so filed shall be referred to the license review board, which shall cause an investigation to be made. When the investigation has been completed, the license review board shall hold a public hearing on the application at a regularly scheduled license review board meeting and shall recommend to the mayor that the application for a license be granted or denied.
(b)
The mayor, upon receiving the recommendation of the license review board, may, within 60 calendar days of receipt of said recommendation, deny or grant an application for a new license. In addition, within said 60-day period, if the mayor determines there is a need to correct a clear error or prevent a manifest injustice, the mayor may remand the application back to the license review board for further hearing. If the mayor fails to take action within the 60-day period, the recommendation of the license review board shall become the final decision of the mayor.
(Code 1977, § 14-6173; Ord. No. 2008-79(08-O-1677), § 14, 11-6-08)
Sec. 30-768. - Revocation.
(a)
Any license granted under this division shall be subject to revocation for cause. If any officer or employee of a hotel, lodginghouse or other place having a register containing the names of guests shall fail or refuse to permit a police officer to check the register, it shall be deemed a sufficient cause for revocation of a license. The failure of the applicant, license holder, the property owner or any person acting as an agent for or on behalf of such person to pay property taxes, hotel/motel occupancy taxes or any other taxes required by law to be paid in association with the operation of the business or licensed premises shall constitute grounds for the denial of an application for an original or renewal license and the revocation of a current license to operate the hotel, motel, lodging house, or rooming house.
(b)
Whenever in the opinion of the license review board there is cause to revoke a license, a written notice of intention to revoke shall be furnished the holder of the license three days before a regular or called meeting of the license review board, at which time the holder of the license may make such showing as the holder of the license may deem proper. After a hearing, the license review board shall report its recommendation to the mayor, who may revoke the license if in the mayor's discretion it is to the best interest of the peace and good order of the city.
(Code 1977, § 14-6174; Ord. No. 1999-71, § 1, 9-29-99)
Secs. 30-769—30-790. - Reserved.
