ARTICLE V. - COUNTY DEPOSITORY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1916 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 304), p. 392, as enacted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Office abolished.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that the office of the county treasurer of Coffee County be and the same is hereby abolished.
Sec. 2. - Delivery to county commissioners.
Be it further enacted, that all books, papers, records and other property and business of the said office of county treasurer of Coffee County shall be delivered to and disposed of by the county commissioners of said Coffee County as soon as this law becomes effective.
Sec. 3. - Bank to be depository; bond; premium payment; chosen annually; payments.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the county commissioners of Coffee County shall, on their first regular meeting in January of each and every year after this Act goes into effect, or as soon thereafter as practicable, select some chartered bank or trust company located in Coffee County to act as a county depository for the purpose of handling and paying out and otherwise disposing of all county funds and for the performance of the duties now performed by the county treasurer of Coffee County, as shall be required of them by said commissioners. Said bank or trust company shall be required to give bond in the sum of not less than $20,000.00, and not more than $30,000.00, for the faithful performance of their duty, and where bond is given in some regular bonding company the premium thereon shall be paid by the county commissioners out of any county funds available therefor, but no other compensation shall be allowed to said bank or trust company. Such county depository shall be chosen annually, as herein provided, or more often upon a failure or refusal to perform the duties of said position by any one so chosen. All county warrants and disbursements shall be drawn on and paid by such county depository, instead of the county treasurer, as is now done.
Sec. 4. - Effective date.
This Act shall not become effective and operative until on and after January 1, 1917.
Sec. 5. - Repealing clause.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
Approval Date: Approved August 2, 1916.
