ARTICLE VIII. - BOARD OF EDUCATION[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1970 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 934), p. 2441, as enacted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Any provisions regarding the notice to introduce legislation and the jurat have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Created.
The Board of Education of Coffee County which existed on December 31, 2001, is continued in existence but on and after January 1, 2002, shall be constituted as provided in this Act. The Board of Education of Coffee County so continued and constituted, sometimes referred to in this Act as the 'board,' shall continue to have the powers, duties, rights, obligations, and liabilities of that board as existed immediately prior to January 1, 2002.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1356) § 1, p. 6856; 1994 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 657) § 1, p. 3672; 2001 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 2EX29) § 1, p. 755)
Sec. 2. - Qualifications; terms.
(a)
Those members of the Board of Education of Coffee County who are serving as such on December 31, 2001, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. On and after January 1, 2002, the Board of Education of Coffee County shall consist of five members all of whom shall be elected from education districts described in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
For purposes of electing members of the board of education, the Coffee County School District is divided into five education districts. One member of the board shall be elected from each such district. The five education districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: coffeewk3 Plan Type: LOCAL User: Buck Administrator: CNTY-COFFEE.
(c)
When used in such attachment, the terms "Tract" and "BG" (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a BG heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the Coffee County School District which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the Coffee County School District which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any education district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1356) § 1, p. 6856; 1994 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 657) § 1, p. 3672; 2001 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 2EX29) § 1, p. 755)
Editor's note— The attachment referred to as "Plan Name: coffeewk3 Plan Type: LOCAL User: Buck Administrator: CNTY-COFFEE," has been omitted from this printing at the discretion of the editor. It may be found at 2001 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 2EX28), p. 755, 757—762.
Sec. 2A. - [Eligibility.]
(a)
No person shall be a member of the board if that person is ineligible for such office pursuant to Code sections 45-2-1 [O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1] and 20-2-51 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 20-2-51] or any other general law applicable to that office.
(b)
In order to be elected as a member of the board from an education district, a person must receive the number of votes cast as required by general law for that office in that district only. Only electors who are residents of that education district may vote for a member of the board for that district. At the time of qualifying for election as a member of the board from an education district, each candidate for such office shall specify the education district for which that person is a candidate. A person elected or appointed as a member of the board from an education district must continue to reside in that district during that person's term of office or that office shall become vacant.
(2001 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 2EX29) § 1, p. 755)
Sec. 2B. - [Initial terms and designations.]
(a)
The first members of the reconstituted Board of Education of Coffee County shall be elected at the general election on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2002. Those members of the board elected thereto from Education Districts 1, 2, and 4 in November, 2002, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election and shall serve for initial terms of office which expire December 31, 2006, and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. Those members of the board elected thereto from Education Districts 3 and 5 in November, 2004, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election and shall serve for initial terms of office which expire December 31, 2008, and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. Those and all future successors to members of the board whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the time of the state-wide general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and shall serve for terms of office of four years each. Members of the board shall serve for the terms of office specified therefor in this subsection and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
Education Districts 1 through 5, as they exist on December 31, 2001, shall continue to be designated as Education Districts 1 through 5, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and on and after January 1, 2002, such members of the board serving from those former education districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this section.
(c)
All members of the board who are elected thereto shall be nominated and elected in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], the Georgia Election Code.
(2001 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 2EX29) § 1, p. 755)
Sec. 3. - Vacancies.
(a)
In the event a vacancy occurs on the board for any reason other than the expiration of the term of office, the remaining members of said board shall elect a person who shall serve for the unexpired term.
(b)
At the board's first regularly scheduled meeting in January, the members of the board shall elect, by majority vote, one of their number to serve as chairperson for one year and until the subsequent election of a chairperson in the same manner as provided above and one of their number to serve as vice-chairperson for one year and until the subsequent election of a vice-chairperson in the same manner as provided above. A member shall be eligible to succeed himself or herself as a member of the board and also as chairperson and vice-chairperson of the board.
(2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 675) § 1, p. 3949)
Editor's note— 2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 675) § 1, p. 3949 only amended subsection 3(b) of the original Act.
Sec. 4. - Compensation.
Beginning on the effective date of this section, the members of the Board of Education, including the chairman, shall each receive $500.00 per month as compensation for their services; and, as a cost-of-living adjustment, the amount of the monthly compensation received by such members shall increase in each year by a percentage equal to any cost-of-living adjustment provided to teachers under the jurisdiction of the board of education.
(1984 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1015) § 1, p. 4483; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 174) § 1, p. 3954; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 817) § 1, p. 5804)
Sec. 5. - Present board.
The board of education of Coffee County existing on the effective date of this Act shall continue in existence through December 31, 1970, but the terms of all members of such board shall expire at that time and such board shall stand abolished. The board created herein shall be the successor to such abolished board and shall be subject to all provisions of law relative to county boards of education except those provisions of law which are in conflict with the provisions of this Act.
Sec. 6. - Superintendent.
(a)
The board of education created herein shall appoint, by a majority vote of its members, the county school superintendent who shall serve at the pleasure of the board. The first superintendent appointed by said board shall be appointed at the first meeting of the board held in 1971. Such superintendent shall take office immediately after his appointment. The county school superintendent holding office on the effective date of this Act shall continue to serve the term of office for which he was elected and until his successor is appointed by the board as provided herein. In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of county school superintendent prior to the expiration of the present term of office, such vacancy shall be filled as provided herein. No election for county school superintendent by the people shall be held in 1972.
(b)
The county school superintendent appointed by the board shall receive such compensation as the board shall provide by a majority vote of its members. The compensation of the superintendent shall be fixed by the board, and the amount of such compensation shall be duly recorded in the minutes of the board. The county school superintendent appointed by the board shall be subject to all provisions of law relative to county school superintendents except those provisions of law which are in conflict with the provisions of this Act.
Sec. 7. - Referendum.
Not more than 45 days after the date of the approval of this Act by the Governor, or after it otherwise becomes law, it shall be the duty of the ordinary [Probate Court Judge] of Coffee County to issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting this Act to the voters of Coffee County for approval or rejection. The ordinary [Probate Court Judge] shall set the date of such election for a day not less than 30 nor more than 45 days after the date of the issuance of the call. The ordinary [Probate Court Judge] shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof, in the official organ of Coffee County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
"For approval of the Act providing for a new board of education of Coffee County, the membership of said board, the election of the members of said board, the filling of vacancies on said board, the election of a chairman of said board, the appointment of a county school superintendent by said board to serve at the pleasure of said board, the compensation of said superintendent, and all matters relative to the foregoing."
"Against approval of the Act providing for a new board of education of Coffee County, the membership of said board, the election of the members of said board, the filling of vacancies on said board, the election of a chairman of said board, the appointment of a county school superintendent by said board to serve at the pleasure of said board, the compensation of said superintendent, and all matters relative to the foregoing."
All persons desiring to vote in favor of the Act shall vote for approval, and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote against approval. If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, it shall become of full force and effect, otherwise it shall be void and of no force and effect. The expense of such election shall be borne by Coffee County. It shall be the duty of the ordinary [Probate Court Judge] to hold and conduct such election. He shall hold such election under the same laws and rules and regulations as govern special elections, except as otherwise provided herein. It shall be the duty of the ordinary [Probate Court Judge] to canvass the returns and declare and certify the result of the election. It shall be his further duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
Editor's note— The county follows the procedures which were approved by referendum as described in § 7 of the original Act regarding membership of the board of education, the election of the members of the board of education, the filling of vacancies on the board of education, the election of a chairman of the board of education, the appointment of a county school superintendent by the board of education to serve at the pleasure of said board, the compensation of said superintendent, and all matters relative thereto.
Sec. 8. - Repealing clause.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
