ARTICLE III. - SIDEWALK FOOD SALES

Sec. 8-75. - Intent and purpose.
The city council finds and declares that:
(1)
The uncontrolled placement and maintenance of restaurant tables and chairs in public rights-of-way and in access ways to buildings presents an inconvenience and danger to the safety and welfare of persons using such rights-of-way; including pedestrians, persons entering and leaving vehicles and buildings, and persons performing essential utility, traffic control and emergency services.
(2)
Restaurant tables and chairs so located as to cause an inconvenience or danger to persons using public rights-of-way constitutes public nuisances.
(3)
It is a matter of public necessity that the city protect persons on its public streets, sidewalks, transportation facilities and other public rights-of-way from any dangerous condition created by sidewalk dining facilities.
( Ord. No. 2004-4, 9-16-2004 )
Sec. 8-76. - Permit.
An application generated by the office of the planning director shall be provided to any owner of a licensed restaurant within the highway business district (B2), the historic business district (B3) and the central business district (CBD) who desires to implement outdoor dining and seeks to utilize public sidewalk rights-of-way for restaurant sales. Outdoor dining on private property within these districts is also allowed subject to compliance with these regulations except as noted herein.
( Ord. No. 2004-4, § 1, 9-16-2004 ; Ord. No. 2004-4, Amend. 1, 4-3-2017 )
Sec. 8-77. - Fee.
There shall be an annual permit fee in the amount established by the city.
( Ord. No. 2004-4, § 2, 9-16-2004 )
Sec. 8-78. - Criteria for granting of the permit.
In reviewing the application, the city manager or his designee must ascertain that the following criteria are satisfied prior to granting of the permit:
(1)
Arrangement. A drawing of the proposed sidewalk utilization identifying placement of all tables, chairs and any other item to be placed on the sidewalk must accompany the application if the permit application is to be reviewed for compliance. Said drawing shall be identified as the arrangement (hereinafter "arrangement") of tables and chairs.
(2)
The city manager or his designee shall review the proposed arrangement of tables and chairs within the area to determine whether the arrangement allows for pedestrian, vendor and handicapped access consistent with the width of the sidewalk and the relationship of the sidewalk to streets, crosswalks, parking and access to adjacent businesses. However, at a minimum, the arrangement shall demonstrate that at least five feet of unobstructed space is set aside on the sidewalk between the arrangement and the curb or nearest obstacle. Signs are not allowed in the outside table service area, except as necessary to satisfy the alcohol restrictions set forth in other city regulations. Further, a divider may be erected to separate the sidewalk café from the remaining sidewalk area by a removable divider constructed of a sturdy material with a self-supporting base, or other such materials deemed safe to the appropriate location. Barrier railing may be constructed out of a nylon material, or other materials deemed safe to the appropriate location and design. The divider shall be not less than three feet nor more than four feet in height. The entirety of the arrangement shall be enclosed within this divider. On private property, these regulations shall be applicable as to the divider requirement only.
(3)
The applicant must acknowledge by signature his awareness that food and alcoholic beverages may be sold outdoors only under the provisions of the permit granted under this article, and only within the arrangement as defined and under the following conditions:
a.
Sales shall occur only within an area of the zoned premises approved by the city manager or his designee and that limits access to the outdoor dining area.
b.
Approved signage must be displayed within said area to advise patrons that alcoholic beverages cannot be removed from the outdoor dining area under any circumstances.
c.
Any alcohol sold by the permittee cannot be served in bottles, cans, plastic cups, or any other disposable containers, but only in approved glass containers.
(4)
Area. The area in which sidewalk dining is authorized shall abut the outside front wall of the restaurant to which it is an extension and shall not extend parallel in either direction beyond the outside front wall of the restaurant. This regulation is not applicable as to private property.
( Ord. No. 2004-4, § 3, 9-16-2004 ; Ord. No. 2019-04, 1-10-2019 )
Sec. 8-79. - Regulations.
The use of the space by the permittee must conform to the arrangement which was approved as part of the application process.
(1)
All tables and furniture shall be kept in a good state of repair and maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition and in accordance with county health department regulations.
(2)
A covered trash container of at least 32-gallon capacity, containing a disposable plastic liner or bag, shall be provided within each sidewalk cafe area and shall be emptied and washed as often as necessary to prevent overflow or other unsanitary conditions. It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to maintain such area, including sidewalks, and all equipment and furnishings in such conditions so as to be clean, sanitary and safe at all times.
(3)
All components of the arrangement shall be placed indoors at the close of the business day or 10:00 p.m., whichever is earlier every day (i.e. leaving the outside space free of any furnishings whatsoever).
(4)
No music, recorded or live, or other amplified sound shall be allowed within the area of the arrangement, and umbrellas, when used, shall have canopies which extend to at least the same diameter as the tables served by the umbrellas, and shall be anchored with a weighted base. No text, graphics, or logos shall be allowed on the umbrellas or tables, and all umbrellas must be matching in color and size. The umbrella can be of any one of the following colors: black, white, dark green, dark blue, beige, dark red, or maroon and must be approved by the city manager or his designee. The umbrella panels may alternate colors so long as no more than two colors are used alternating on the umbrella panels; however, the umbrellas used throughout the arrangement must be identical in size and colors chosen.
(5)
The city may suspend or modify the permits granted under this article at any time, including, but not limited to, the time in which the city may grant permits to special events. The city manager, upon petition of the planning director, shall have the authority to require any sidewalk café operating under permit issued pursuant to this article to suspend operation and clear such area, or to move or modify the location or operation of the sidewalk cafe and to set the required time period for compliance with the order of the city manager.
( Ord. No. 2004-4, § 4, 9-16-2004 )
Sec. 8-80. - Indemnification of the city.
(a)
As a condition of issuance, the approved applicant and any person acting under or pursuant to said approval, agrees to indemnify, hold harmless, release and defend (even if the allegations are false, fraudulent, or groundless) to the maximum extent allowed by law, the city manager, planning director, the city, the city council, and each member thereof, and its officers, employees, advisory board members and representatives, from and against any and all liability, loss, suits, claims, damages, costs, judgments and expenses (including attorney's fees and costs of litigation) which in whole or in part result from, arise out of, or are claimed to result from or to arise out of any acts, negligence, errors, or omissions of an approved applicant, its employees, representatives, contractors, subcontractors, or agents by reason of or arising out of, or in any manner connected with, any and all acts, operations, privileges authorized, allowed or undertaken pursuant to the use approval under this article, including, without limitation, any condition or property used in operations.
(b)
This agreement of indemnity includes, but is not limited to, personal injury (including death at any time) and property or other damage sustained by any person (including, but not limited to, companies, corporations, the approved applicant and its employees or agents, and members of the general public).
(c)
As a further condition of issuance of the approval, the approved applicant covenants not to sue the city manager or his designee, the city, the city council and each member thereof, and its employees, agents and representatives and shall cause its insurers to waive subrogation against the same with respect to any action, claim or demand in any way resulting from or connected with any or all undertakings and operations conducted pursuant to the use approval.
( Ord. No. 2004-4, § 5, 9-16-2004 )
Sec. 8-81. - Liability insurance.
The approved applicant shall be required to have general liability insurance providing for the following limits naming the city as an additional insured in the following minimum amounts: $500,000 per person; and $1,000,000 per occurrence, with an additional $1,000,000 umbrella coverage. This regulation is not applicable as to private property.
( Ord. No. 2004-4, § 6, 9-16-2004 )
Sec. 8-82. - Penalties for violation.
Any violation of this article shall be punished by a fine up to $500.00 for each offense via citation to municipal court. Each day in which a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
( Ord. No. 2004-4, § 7, 9-16-2004 )
Secs. 8-83—8-99. - Reserved.
