ARTICLE IX. - R-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 901. - Purpose and intent.
The Single-Family Residential District is intended to establish and preserve quiet, stable single-family residential neighborhoods at low densities (up to approximately one and one-half units per acre) free from other uses except those which are compatible with and convenient to the residents of such a district.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 )
Sec. 902. - Permitted uses.
1.
Single-family detached dwellings, but not including mobile homes, travel trailers used as residences, or modular homes.
2.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the principal residential use of the property, including home gardens, non-commercial greenhouses, and shelters or enclosures for three (3) or less household pets that meet applicable health requirements. The keeping of four (4) or more animals shall constitute a kennel. Non-commercial livestock is a permitted accessory use on lots with a minimum area of three (3) acres, provided that any buildings or enclosures for the maintenance or shelter of animals shall be setback a minimum of one hundred fifty (150) feet from any property line.
3.
Churches, temples, synagogues and places of worship, and their solely owned and operated customary accessory facilities, including cemeteries, provided such uses are located on a lot with a minimum area of two (2) acres, principal buildings are setback a minimum of fifty (50) feet from any property line, and parking areas are located outside of the required front yard and separated from any side or rear property line by a minimum six (6) foot high, opaque fence or wall, or a densely planted landscape strip of at least ten (10) feet in width.
4.
Home occupations, as defined in Article III and limited in Section 713.
5.
Parks, playgrounds, community centers, tennis courts, swimming pools, golf courses and other recreational facilities, operated on a non-profit basis.
6.
Public and semi-public buildings and uses, as defined in Article III.
7.
Schools, public elementary, middle and secondary.
8.
Schools, parochial and private offering courses in general education substantially similar to that of a public school, not offered for profit.
9.
Community center.
( Ord. No. 91-9(Amd. 21), 9-6-2016 ; Ord. No. 2018-08, 8-13-2018 )
