Chapter 101 - GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

Sec. 101-1. - Application of chapter 1.
The provisions of chapter 1 apply to this subpart.
Sec. 101-2. - Legal status.
This subpart B is a codification of ordinances pertaining to land use or land development and subpart A is a codification of other ordinances; however:
(1)
The failure to include provisions in subpart B that relate to land use or land development does not excuse noncompliance with such provisions.
(2)
The inclusion in subpart B of provisions that do not relate to land use or land development does not excuse noncompliance with such provisions.
Sec. 101-3. - Standards governing the exercise of zoning power.
In exercising the zoning powers granted to the mayor and city council by state law, the city council shall apply the following standards in making zoning decisions, weighing each standard to the extent appropriate or relevant to each zoning decision:
(1)
Standards for consideration of rezonings.
a.
Whether the zoning proposal will permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property.
b.
Whether the zoning proposal will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property.
c.
Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use that will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools.
d.
Whether the zoning proposal is consistent with the comprehensive plan, transportation plans, or other plans adopted for guiding development within the city.
e.
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of property that give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning or special use proposal.
(2)
Standards for considering the adoption of or amendment to Ordinance No. 91-9, as amended, or other "zoning" ordinances.
a.
Is the proposal consistent with the purpose and intent of the ordinance or regulation under consideration?
b.
Does the proposal further, or is it compatible with, the purpose and intent of the comprehensive plan?
c.
Is the proposal required to adequately address new or changing conditions or to properly implement the comprehensive plan?
d.
Does the proposal reasonably promote the public health, safety, morality or general welfare?
( Ord. No. 2016-7, art. 1, 2016 )
Sec. 101-4. - Policies and procedures which govern the calling and holding of a public hearing on zoning matters.
Prior to making any zoning decision, the city council shall conduct a public hearing. The public hearing shall be called and a public notice provided in accordance with the provisions of Ordinance No. 91-9, as amended, and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. ยง 36-66-4 Public Hearing Notice, as follows:
(1)
A notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days, prior to said public hearing in the official legal organ of the city or another newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the city. The notice shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing in accordance with O.C.G.A. ยง 36-66-4. If the proposed amendment is a rezoning of property or special use initiated by a party other than the city council, then:
a.
The published notice, in addition to the foregoing, shall include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property, and the proposed zoning classification of the property; and
b.
A sign containing that same information shall be placed on the property by the city not less than 15 days, nor more than 45 days, prior to the date of the hearing. The sign shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property frontage in such manner as to be legible from the public road. On lots with more than one road frontage, a sign will be placed facing each public road. If the property has no road frontage, a sign shall be placed at a location on each road where access will be gained to the property.
(2)
Public hearing. All public hearings regarding applications considered by the board of zoning appeals, planning commission, and city council shall be held in accordance with any procedures adopted by said body and, in addition, shall be governed by the following procedure:
a.
As a preliminary matter, the applicant and any opponents to the zoning decision shall acquaint themselves with the provisions of O.C.G.A. ยง 36-67A-3, regarding disclosure of campaign contributions and shall comply with the provisions of that statute.
b.
The presiding officer (as used herein the term "presiding officer" shall mean the chair of the body or the city attorney) shall open the hearing by stating the specific application being considered at the public hearing. At this time, the presiding officer may summarize the public hearing procedures. The applicant may, upon recognition and upon statement of his name and address, present and explain his application. The applicant shall be provided a full opportunity to be heard and may present any evidence, information or materials which the applicant desires for the body to consider in arriving at its determination. The applicant, or his designated agent, shall be required to attend the public hearing unless written notice of hardship is received prior to such meeting. Failure of the applicant or his agent to attend the public hearing or meeting, except in cases of hardship, may be due cause for dismissal or denial of such application. A time limitation may be imposed at the discretion of the presiding officer, but in no event shall such time limitation provide for less than ten minutes, nor shall it be any less than the time allowed for those persons speaking in opposition to the application.
c.
Persons who oppose the application will be asked to comment next. All interested parties, after being recognized, shall be afforded an opportunity to address the proposed application by standing before the appropriate body and identifying their name and address along with any comments on the proposed application. A time limitation may be imposed at the discretion of the presiding officer, but in no event shall such time limitation provide for less than ten minutes, nor shall it be any less than the time allowed for those persons speaking in favor of the application. Public comments will be accepted and individuals making public comments may present any evidence, information and/or materials that the individual desires for the body to consider in arriving at its determination.
d.
All comments shall be directed to the body and shall be made in an orderly manner.
e.
The applicant shall then have an opportunity for summary remarks and rebuttal concerning the proposed application.
f.
Upon the completion of any comments from interested parties and the summary by the applicant, the public hearing shall be completed and adjourned.
g.
A member of the city staff will then briefly summarize the requested application and staff shall respond to any questions from the body regarding the staff recommendation related to the proposed application, any applicable background material, and the recommendations and reports of the planning commission if appropriate. All public comments having been heard, the members of the body considering the application may discuss the request among themselves. During this discussion period, the members of the body may call on the applicant or other interested parties to clarify points made previously or to answer questions. Said applicant or interested parties may respond upon recognition.
h.
The mayor and council will then take the matter under consideration for voting but may ask questions of the staff, consultants, applicant or other persons in attendance during the voting process.
( Ord. No. 2016-6, art. 1, 2016 )
Sec. 101-5. - Building permit and other development fees.
Notwithstanding any other provision of any ordinance of the city to the contrary, fees for the following shall be as established by the city:
(1)
Building permits for any building or structure required by city ordinance or building code to be permitted.
(2)
Plumbing permit.
(3)
Electrical permit.
(4)
Heating and air permit (mechanical).
(5)
Low voltage permit.
(6)
Mobile home permit.
(7)
Sign permit, which permit is required before a sign is installed, constructed, enlarged, moved or converted.
(8)
Banner permit.
(9)
Swimming pool permit.
(10)
Certification of appropriateness.
(11)
Other miscellaneous fee schedules.
(12)
Application fee for rezoning, variance, conditional use and appeal.
(13)
Application fee for zoning text amendment or application fee for alteration or extension of conditional zoning.
(14)
Application fee for plan approval for mobile home park, residential condominium and planned unit development (PUD).
(15)
Application fee for preliminary subdivision/development plan approval.
(16)
Application fee for final subdivision/development plan approval.
(17)
Copy of official zoning map.
( Ord. No. 94-4, Amend. 6, 2-2-2009 )
