Chapter 8 - ANIMALS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal means any living creature, domestic or wild.
Animal, dangerous means any wild mammal, reptile, or fowl which is not naturally tame or gentle but is of a wild nature or disposition and which, because of its size, vicious nature or other characteristics, would constitute a danger to human life or property if not kept or maintained in a safe manner or in secure quarters; and any domestic mammal, reptile, or fowl which, because of its size, vicious propensity, or other characteristic, would constitute a danger to human life or property, if not kept or maintained in a safe manner or in secure quarters.
At large means off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the owner, a member of his immediate family, or some other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or other control device.
Domestic animal means any animal that has been bred or raised to live in or about the habitation of humans and is dependent on people for food and shelter, including but not limited to dogs, cats, birds, rabbits, hamsters, mice, turtles and the like.
Domestic farm animal means cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats, fowl or other similar animals.
Domestic fowl means birds commonly associated with farms and used for eggs and meat, including but not limited to chickens, ducks, geese and turkeys.
Farm means a parcel of land containing a minimum of ten acres on which produce, crops or flowers are grown primarily for off-premises consumption, use or sale, or on which livestock are housed or raised for personal consumption, use or sale.
Livestock means any animal customarily kept by humans for the purpose of providing food, clothing, or work, including but not limited to equine (horses), bovine (cattle), ovine (sheep), caprine (goats), porcine (swine), and fowl.
Public nuisance animal means any animal that is repeatedly found at-large; damages the property of anyone other than the owner; is declared dangerous; attacks without provocation; creates unsanitary conditions or offensive and objectionable odors in enclosures or surroundings and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept; an animal which is not being kept in conformity with county zoning resolutions; is in heat and not confined within a secure enclosure to prevent unintentional breeding; chases vehicles, bicycles, or people.
Running at large or straying means any livestock which is not under manual control of a person and which is on any public road of this city or on any property not belonging to the owner of the livestock, except by permission of the owner of such property.
(Code 1994, § 30-101; Ord. of 8-18-2014(1), § 1(Exh. A))
Sec. 8-2. - Violations.
Any animal control officer of the city is authorized to issue and serve citations for appearance before the municipal court for violations of any provisions of the animal control ordinances of the city and/or the "Georgia Animal Protection Act" located in O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.
(Code 1994, § 30-104)
Sec. 8-3. - Dangerous animals.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any kind to run at large in the city. If the animal causes injury to another person who does not provoke the injury, then the owner shall be liable in damages to the person so injured.
(b)
The police officers of the city shall be authorized to use such force as is necessary to prevent any such dangerous or vicious animal from causing harm to any person or property.
(Code 1994, § 30-102)
Sec. 8-4. - Strays.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats, poultry, dogs, or cats to run at large in the city. If any such animal is found to be running at large in any public place in the city, it shall be impounded in the manner provided in this chapter.
(Code 1994, § 30-103)
Sec. 8-5. - Cruelty.
It shall be unlawful for any person to work an animal who is lame, starved or in a famished condition, or to overload, whip, beat, maim, bruise, deprive of food, torture or abuse, in any manner, any animal in this city.
(Code 1994, § 30-105)
State Law reference— Cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; wild animals, O.C.G.A. § 27-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 8-6. - Dead animal disposal act.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city who owns or is caring for an animal which has died or has been killed to abandon the animal, its parts, or blood. Such person should dispose of the carcass in the manner outlined in state law.
(Code 1994, § 30-106)
State Law reference— Disposal of dead animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 8-7. - Livestock.
Except in districts of the city designated as Agricultural Residential (AR), Low Density Residential (R1) and Medium Density Residential (R2) under the zoning ordinance of the city, as amended, no livestock shall be kept, maintained or raised within the corporate limits of the city.
In Agricultural Residential (AR), Low Density Residential (R1) and Medium Density Residential (R2) districts within the corporate limits of the city (as defined by the city's zoning ordinance), the noncommercial keeping of livestock, or other large animals shall be permitted only on lots of one acre or more in size. The keeping of noncommercial fowl shall be permitted on lots less than one acre on a ratio basis per the chart below. Roosters are prohibited within the Low Density Residential (R1) and Medium Density Residential (R2) districts. This section does not regulate farms, as defined in this article, in the Agricultural Residential (AR) district.
The total number of all such animals (other than their young under the age of six months) or fowl allowed on a lot shall be limited to the square footage of the lot, divided by the total minimum areas required per animal or fowl as listed in the following table:
EXPAND
Sheep or goat 20,000 square foot
Horse/mule 43,560 square foot
Cow 43,560 square foot
Fowl 50 per 43,560 square foot
Hog/pig 43,560 square foot
  Area requirements are based on minimum acreage recommended by the Georgia Cooperative Extension Service.
All livestock shall be properly housed with an adequate food and water supply and confined within a fenced enclosure. The fenced enclosure shall be installed and maintained in such a manner as to keep any average livestock animal from escaping the enclosed compound and causing damage, accidents or injury to any person or property. Owners keeping livestock in the city are hereby required to keep such livestock confined and not allow said livestock to run on any property other than the owners. Owners of such livestock shall be liable for any damage, accidents or injuries.
All houses, hutches, pens, stables, sheds, stalls and enclosures, wherever located, shall have adequate space for each animal or fowl. All houses, hutches, pens, stables, sheds, or stalls where such livestock are kept shall be located in the rear yard of property a minimum of 40 feet from the property boundary.
All places wherein livestock are kept shall have adequate drainage sufficient to prevent standing water in enclosures. All enclosures wherein livestock are kept shall be regularly covered with lime or other suitable chemical agents, to prevent bad odors or nuisances to neighbors.
In the Agricultural Residential (AR) district within the corporate limits of the city (as defined by the city's zoning ordinance), commercial agriculture, production of livestock or poultry or their products, and forestry shall be permitted only on lots of ten acres or more in size. No structure accessory to such use that contains poultry, livestock, manure or other odor- or dust-producing substance or use shall be located within 200 feet of a property line; provided, however, that any such structure existing at the time of the passage of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall be allowed to extend to the existing building line but no nearer the property line than any existing portion of such structure. All livestock and poultry kept on any such lot shall be limited to the square footage limitations listed above.
Property owners wishing to house livestock in a residential district shall submit the following information to the city clerk:
• Name, address and contact information of owner.
• A recorded plat of the property.
• A site plan indicating location and size of structures and enclosures required per animal.
• Type of fencing to be utilized for enclosures.
• The number and type of animal or fowl to be housed on the property.
• A written plan indicating measures to be taken to minimize odor and disposal of manure and carcasses.
Owners of any such public nuisance animal may be impounded and the owner or possessor charged for a violation of this section.
Owners of livestock impounded for violation of this section or any state and/or federal laws, will be charged in accordance with actual costs of impoundment plus impounding and boarding fees.
Impounded livestock shall be held for a period of 21 days. If such impounded animals are not claimed by the owner during that period of time, the animals may be given to persons willing to accept them, in the discretion of animal control or law enforcement.
This section shall be read in conjunction with any similar provision contained in the zoning ordinance of the city. Any provision contained in the zoning ordinance which is at variance with the provisions contained in this section shall prevail.
(Code 1994, § 30-107; Ord. of 8-18-2014(1), § 1(Exh. A))
Secs. 8-8—8-32. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS

Sec. 8-33. - Control of rabies.
The governing authority is authorized and required, in the control of rabies, to regulate and/or license animals. No dog shall be kept, harbored or maintained within the city, unless such dog has been inoculated against rabies by the administration of antirabies vaccine, approved by the state department of human resources, and administered by a licensed veterinarian, and shall have attached by collar a numbered tag showing such inoculation, in accordance with the regulations of the state department of human resources and in accordance with state law. There shall be no fee for issuance of such rabies tag.
(Code 1994, § 30-201)
State Law reference— Control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.
Sec. 8-34. - Dogs running at large.
It is hereby declared to be unsafe and dangerous to the safety of the residents of the city for dogs to run loose and not be under control. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any entity, person or corporation owning or keeping a dog to permit the dog to run at large within the city. Any dog found abandoned or running at large and violating this provision shall be taken into custody and impounded in the City of Madison pound or other suitable place.
(Code 1994, § 30-202)
State Law reference— Assistance for the control of wild or abandoned dogs, O.C.G.A. § 27-1-7.
Sec. 8-35. - Holding and reclaiming.
Any dog seized shall be impounded and placed in a pound or shelter designated by the mayor and city council for a period of three days. When a dog is impounded a record of same shall be made by the dog catcher and kept in city hall and the shelter, which record shall identify the dog as to sex, color, and size as much as possible. If the owner is known, such owner shall be notified and allowed to reclaim the dog after payment of a fee. The amount of the fee shall be established by the city council from time to time and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges, available for examination in the office of the city clerk/treasurer.
(Code 1994, § 30-203)
Sec. 8-36. - Adoption or destruction.
Upon all further and additional violations of this article and the impounding of the same dog, or in the event this article is violated and the owner or keeper of the dog does not, within 72 hours following impoundment, pay the fines and fees set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk/treasurer and comply with the provisions herein regarding inoculation and does not obtain possession of the animal, the dog shall be destroyed; provided, however, that should anyone other than the owner or keeper of the dog desire to adopt and take possession of the dog within the said 72 hours, such person may do so at the end of said 72-hour period by having the dog inoculated against rabies if not previously done and by obtaining a rabies tag from city hall.
(Code 1994, § 30-204)
Sec. 8-37. - Cruelty to dogs.
No person shall perform a cruel act on any dog; nor shall any person harm, maim or kill any dog, or attempt to do so except to defend his person or property, or the person or property of another from injury or damage being caused by a dog.
(Code 1994, § 30-205)
Sec. 8-38. - Rabies.
(a)
If a dog is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by a dog suspected of having rabies, such dog shall be confined by a leash or chain on the owner's premises and shall be placed under the observation of a veterinarian at the expense of the owner for a period of two weeks. The owner shall notify the poundkeeper or health department of the fact that his dog has been exposed to rabies, and at his discretion the poundkeeper or health department is empowered to have such dog removed from the owner's premises to a veterinary hospital and there placed under observation for a period of two weeks at the expense of the owner.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting a dog to have rabies to allow such dog to be taken off his premises or beyond the limits of the city without the written permission of the poundkeeper or health department.
(c)
Whenever a dog is ascertained to be rabid, notification of same shall be made to the poundkeeper, who shall cause such dog to be removed to the city pound or summarily destroyed.
(Code 1994, § 30-207)
Sec. 8-39. - Dog bites.
Whenever any dog bites a person, the owner of such dog shall immediately notify the poundkeeper or health department who shall order the dog held on the owner's premises or shall have it impounded at the owner's expense for a period of two weeks. The dog shall be examined immediately after it has bitten anyone and again at the end of the two-week period. If at the end of two weeks a veterinarian is convinced that the dog is then free from rabies, the dog shall be released from quarantine or from the pound as the case may be. If the dog should die in the interim, its body shall be sent to the appropriate agency for examination for rabies.
(Code 1994, § 30-208)
Sec. 8-40. - Muzzling.
Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from the dangers of rabies, the mayor, if he deems it necessary, may issue a proclamation ordering every person owning or keeping a dog to confine it securely on his premises unless such dog shall have a muzzle of sufficient strength to prevent its biting any person. Any unmuzzled dog running at large during the time of the proclamation shall be seized and impounded in the manner provided in section 8-35, unless such dog shall be noticeably infected with rabies, in which case it shall be summarily disposed of.
(Code 1994, § 30-209)
Sec. 8-41. - Animal control officer—Authorized.
The animal control officer of the county is authorized to conduct all animal control situations and duties mutually agreed upon by the board of commissioners of the county and the affected incorporated area.
(Ord. of 3-19-2001, § 1)
Sec. 8-42. - Same—Duties.
The duties of the animal control officer of the county, in the affected incorporated areas, shall be enumerated in the contract for services between the city council and the affected incorporated areas.
(Ord. of 3-19-2001, § 2)
