CODE OF ORDINANCES CITY OF EAST POINT, GEORGIA
____________
City Charter and Related Laws
And
The General Ordinances of the City
____________
Ordained and Published by Order of the Mayor and Council
____________
PRM LAW PUBLISHERS
157 Luckie Street, N.W.
Atlanta, Georgia 30303
____________
Commencing With Supplement No. 1 in 1981, Published By:
OFFICIALS
OF THE
CITY OF EAST POINT, GEORGIA
2014
Mayor
Jannquell Peters
Council Members
Ward A
Sharon D. Shropshire, At-Large
Alexander Gothard
Ward B
Karen René, At Large
Lance Rhodes
Ward C
Nanette Saucier, At Large
Myron B. Cook
Ward D
Deana Holiday Ingraham, At Large
Latonya Martin
City Clerk
S. Diane White
PREFACE
PRM LAW PUBLISHERS, a division of Public Research and Management, Inc., of Atlanta, Georgia, is pleased to publish the Code of East Point, Georgia. This volume contains the City Charter, related laws and the code of ordinances of the city.
The Code of Ordinances is an entirely new codification of all ordinances of a general and permanent nature. All obsolete, illegal, or superseded ordinances have been repealed as part of the codification. The Code has been adopted by the mayor and council through the enactment of a single ordinance and thus constitutes the general body of ordinance enactments of the city.
The Code includes several features that will facilitate its use. The various chapters and articles of the Code follow one another in a natural, logical order. The table of contents, with a complete outline of this order, will often provide sufficient reference points for the reader. In addition, the reader may consult the index at the end of the volume. At the beginning of each chapter there is a section by section analysis of articles within the chapter.
Nontextual provisions such as severability clauses, repeals, and enacting clauses are omitted from the text but are covered in Part 1 of this Code that applies to the entire Code of Ordinances. In most instances, references to "this ordinance" in the text of an ordinance have been changed to "this chapter" or "this article" as deemed appropriate. Various editorial notes such as state law references and cross references have been included throughout the code to clarify its provisions.
This Code is designed to serve as a complete compilation of ordinances and as a reliable reference guide. The citations included at the end of sections refer to the official source and date of former Code sections and original ordinances. Sections of the Code which do not have a citation represent new ordinances that have been added to fill in gaps or to replace ordinances which have become outdated.
Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida, will publish supplements to keep the Code current. Supplements are printed in looseleaf form so that all new ordinances may be inserted in the Code on a regular basis.
We gratefully acknowledge the cooperation and assistance rendered by the municipal officials in the preparation of this Code.
PRM LAW PUBLISHERS
Atlanta, Georgia
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
An Ordinance of the City of East Point, Georgia, Adopting and Enacting a New Code for East Point, Georgia; Establishing the Same; Providing for the Repeal of Certain Ordinances Not Included Therein, Except as Herein Expressly Provided; Providing for the Manner of Amending Such Code; Providing When this Ordinance Shall Become Effective; Providing Certain Penalties; and for Other Purposes.
BE IT ORDAINED by the City of East Point, Georgia, and it is hereby ordained by authority of the same as follows:
Section 1. The document entitled the "Code of East Point, Georgia," a copy whereof accompanies this ordinance and is incorporated herein and made a part hereof, is hereby adopted and shall be treated and considered as a new and original comprehensive ordinance.
Section 2. All ordinances and resolutions of a general and permanent nature of East Point, Georgia, enacted on final passage on or before September 19, 1977, and not in the code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
Section 3. The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution of the city promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or to the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city; nor shall this repeal affect any rights or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the city to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city; nor shall this repeal affect the present annual appropriation of the city; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing charges, fees or taxes now due or accrued; nor shall this repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or resolution or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4. The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as provisions of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of the effective date of this code, are intended, and shall be considered, as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Section 5. Any and all additions or amendments to the code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the city council to make the same a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code so that reference to the "Code of East Point, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
Section 6. A copy of the code shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk, and preserved in looseleaf form, or in such other form as the city clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the city clerk or someone authorized by the city clerk, to insert in their designated places all amendments, ordinances or resolutions which indicate the intention of the city council to make those provisions a part of the code, when those provisions have been reprinted in page form, and to extract from the code all provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the city council. A copy of the code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine it and shall be considered the official Code of East Point, Georgia.
Section 7. As pages of the code are replaced because the matter contained on them shall have been repealed, amended, or otherwise shall have been superseded or rendered obsolete or inoperative, the city clerk shall retain copies of the pages of the code so superseded, rendered obsolete or otherwise rendered inoperative in a file so that the former provisions of the code may be readily available and easily found. The purpose of this section is to permit anyone desiring to do so to ascertain the precise status of any section of the code as of any given date.
Section 8. In case of the amendment of any section of the code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in the city charter of the code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
Section 9  It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of the code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code in any manner whatsoever which may cause the law of East Point, Georgia to be misrepresented thereby.
Section 10  All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 11  This ordinance shall be in force and take effect on November 17, 1980.
Adopted this 17th day of November, 1980.
ATTEST:
/s/ Bruce L. Bannister
Mayor
/s/ Mary V. Holleman
Clerk-Treasurer
/s/ George Sparrow
City Attorney
