ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 7-101. - Reserved.
Sec. 7-102. - Oath.
All persons appointed as city managers, city attorneys, and city clerks appointed by the city council; all chief and associate judges of the municipal court; and all individuals appointed to serve on boards, commissions, and authorities created by the city council shall, prior to taking such offices, qualify by taking and subscribing before some officer authorized by law to administer oaths the following oath: "I, (name), do solemnly swear and affirm that I will honestly and faithfully perform the duties of (position) of the City of East Point. I further swear that I am not the holder of any unaccounted for public money due this state or any political subdivision or authority thereof; that I am not the holder of any office of trust under the government of the United States, any other state, or any foreign state from which I am by the laws of the State of Georgia prohibited; that I am otherwise qualified to hold said office according to the Constitution and the laws of Georgia; that I will support the Constitution of the United States and this state and observe the provisions of the charter and code of ordinances of the City of East Point. So help me God or so I affirm."
Sec. 7-103. - Existing ordinances.
(a)
All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter shall be declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
(b)
Within six months after the adoption of this charter, the city council shall provide for the review of all ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the city and shall readopt, repeal, or amend each so that a remodification, as required by subsection (b) of Section 2-208 of this charter, is accomplished.
Sec. 7-104. - Existing personnel.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all personnel and officers of the city and their rights, privileges, and powers shall continue beyond the time this charter takes effect for a period of 90 days before or during which the existing city council shall pass a transition ordinance detailing the changes in personnel and appointed officers required or desired and arranging such titles, rights, privileges, and powers as may be required or desired to allow a reasonable transition.
Sec. 7-105. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue, and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the city council.
Sec. 7-106. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
Sec. 7-107. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Sec. 7-108. - Repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of East Point in the County of Fulton, approved August 19, 1912 (Ga. L. 1912, p. 862), shall be repealed in its entirety and all acts of the General Assembly or of the city council that amended the act that incorporated East Point in 1912 shall also be repealed in their entirety. All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this charter are hereby repealed.
Sec. 7-109. - Effective date.
This charter shall become effective on July 1, 2007.
