ARTICLE III. - Election and Removal
CHAPTER 1. - Conduct of Elections

Sec. 3-101. - Applicability of general laws.
All municipal general or special elections and primaries shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia.
(Ga. L. 1968, p. 885), as now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 3-102. - Regular elections; terms.
(a)
After January 1, 1991, the general municipal election for the City of Hapeville shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in 1991 and on such day in each odd-numbered year thereafter.
(b)
The three (3) council members, two (2) of whom are from wards and one (1) of whom is at-large, whose terms of office expire December 31, 1990, shall continue to serve out their terms of office and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Their successors shall be elected at the general municipal election which shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in 1990, and they shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election and shall serve for terms of office which expire December 31, 1993, and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. All successors thereafter to the three (3) council members whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected in the general municipal election held immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and shall serve for terms of office of four (4) years each and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
The mayor and alderman-at-large whose terms of office expire December 31, 1991, shall continue to serve out their terms of office and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Their successors shall be elected at the general municipal election which shall be held in 1991, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election and shall serve for terms of office of four (4) years each and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. All successors thereafter to the mayor and the alderman-at-large whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the general municipal election held immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election, and shall serve for terms of office of four (4) years each and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(Ga. Laws 1980, p. 3769; Ga. Laws 1984, p. 4599; Ga. Laws 1990 Act No. 739, ยง 1)
Sec. 3-103. - Manner of election.
(a)
The city shall be divided into two (2) wards, designated respectively as wards No. 1 and No. 2. The boundaries of wards No. 1 and No. 2 shall be as specifically described and set forth in Appendix C of this charter.
(b)
The mayor shall be elected from the city at-large.
(c)
Two (2) council members shall each reside respectively in wards No. 1 and No. 2 and shall be elected from the city at-large.
(d)
One (1) council member, to be known as a "councilman-at-large," may reside at any location within the city and shall be elected from the city at-large.
(e)
One (1) council member, to be known as "alderman-at-large," may reside at any location within the city and shall be elected from the city at-large.
(f)
All municipal elections shall be non-partisan and the names of candidates shall be listed alphabetically upon the ballot without party label.
Chapter 2. - Vacancies and Removal from Office

Sec. 3-201. - Occurrence of vacancies.
A vacancy in the office of mayor or council member occurs when a duly elected person fails to qualify, or when a person who has been duly elected and qualified either dies, resigns, becomes disabled, or is removed from office, as provided by this charter. Vacancies shall be filled as is provided by section 3-202 of this charter.
Sec. 3-202. - Filling of vacancies.
In the event the office of the mayor or any council member shall become vacant by death, removal, disqualification, resignation or other cause, the remaining members of the mayor and council shall within 30 days order a special election to fill the vacancy or vacancies for the unexpired term or terms. Every special election for such purpose shall be held and conducted in all respects in accordance with the provisions of the code relating to general elections.
Sec. 3-203. - Impeachment.
The mayor and council shall have the sole right to try all impeachments. When sitting for the purpose they shall be under oath or affirmation. When the mayor is tried the judge of the City Court of Atlanta or any judge of the Superior Court in this State shall preside, and no person shall be convicted without the concurrence of two-thirds of the members present, and judgment shall not extend further than removal from and disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust or profit in the City of Hapeville; but any party so convicted shall be liable to indictment and trial and upon conviction shall be punished as prescribed by law.
