APPENDIX A. - Specific Powers Enumerated

Sec. 1. - Authority to contract with industrial or development authority.
The City of Hapeville, by and through its governing authority, shall have the power to contract with any duly created industrial or development authority, or both, for the operation, maintenance, and use of any public project, public building, or other public facility, including, and not limited to, parking lots, garages, or other parking structures, or projects, buildings or facilities, essential for the public purposes of development and promotion of civic and cultural growth, public welfare, trade, commerce, education, amusement, recreation, or other public purposes in the City of Hapeville.
Sec. 2. - Authority to contract with water and sewer authority.
The City of Hapeville, by and through its governing authority, is authorized to contract with any duly created water and sewer authority for the purposes of operating, maintaining, and providing water and sewer services to the City of Hapeville and its citizens.
Sec. 3. - Appropriations for relief of poor and for charitable purposes.
The mayor and council shall have power by appropriate action to appropriate money for the relief of the poor and for charitable purposes as they may deem proper.
Sec. 4. - Nuisances on vacant lots—Definition.
Any property in the City of Hapeville on which weeds, debris, trash or waste matter has been allowed to accumulate to such extent that the presence of such matter on the vacant property creates conditions likely to cause a fire or, spreading of fire, or an imminent danger to the health or welfare of the adjacent community by the spread of disease or epidemic, shall be subject to be declared a nuisance and abated in the manner herein set out.
Sec. 5. - Same—Abatement.
Proceedings for the abatement of the nuisance declared in the above section shall be as follows or as otherwise provided by state law:
The Director of Community Service shall cause summons to be issued form the municipal court of the City of Hapeville, directed to the owner, if known, if the owner is a resident of the City of Hapeville, or if the owner is a nonresident but said property is under the management of an agent, to the agent of the owner to show cause why the nuisance should not be abated. Said notice to set out the particulars in what manner said vacant lot constitutes a nuisance, and the same shall be personally served on the owner, if a resident, and upon his agent if he is not a resident, and if the owner is unknown and his residence is unknown, with no resident agent in charge of said property, then by publication one time in a newspaper of general circulation, published in the City of Hapeville five days before the date of the hearing, such summons and notice shall state the time and place of the hearing to be had in the municipal court of the City of Hapeville or by such other process duly adopted by ordinance of the Mayor and Council.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 4(app. A, § 5), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 6. - Same—Judgment against offender.
If on said hearing before the judge it shall be adjudged that the said nuisance should be abated the judgment of said judge shall provide that unless said nuisance be abated within 30 days by the party proceeded against, the Director of the Community Service or his assistants shall be authorized service to enter upon said vacant property and abate said nuisance by the cleaning off and removal of the matter thereon constituting the nuisance, which shall be done by said city authorities at the expense of the owner and charged against the property and judgment for costs of court.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 4(app. A, § 6), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 7. - Same—Costs and expenses, collection.
In the event the director of public service or his assistants abate said nuisance, the actual cost and expense of said city in clearing away and removing said matter declared to be a nuisance shall be declared a charge and a lien upon the said property on which said nuisance was abated. Said charge and lien shall be fixed in the following manner: Upon the abatement of said nuisance the director of public service shall render a written statement to the owner of said property if known, or to the owner's agent if the owner be a nonresident, or if the residence of the owner be unknown, by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Hapeville, by being published one time, showing the actual cost of abating said nuisance and demanding the payment of said expense, and if the same be not paid within thirty days from the date of said notice, the director of public service shall certify to the mayor and general council a statement showing the actual cost of abating said nuisance and the cost of advertising, and the mayor and council are authorized by ordinance to declare said charge and expense a lien against the real estate on which said nuisance was abated, which lien or charge may be enforced by execution, levy and sale in the manner as executions now authorized under the provisions of the charter of the City of Hapeville for street improvements. The property owner shall have the same rights and defenses to the said execution, as now exist in defense of executions issued under assessments for paving of streets.
Sec. 8. - Same—Cleanliness and safety of premises, authority to provide.
The Mayor and Council of the City of Hapeville shall have the authority and power, in the interest of health, sanitation, the public safety and welfare, to provide for the cleaning, cleaning off and making and keeping sanitary and/or free from fire or other hazards, any and all real property, either vacant or improved, within the corporate limits of the City of Hapeville; to provide for the removal from such property all debris, grass, weeds or other growth, or other unsanitary or combustible matter or materials; to provide for the height and trimming of hedges, shrubbery and other growth; to fix and to impose penalties upon owner and occupants of property in respect to such requirements; to provide for the performance of such services by the city and for the assessment and collection of charges therefor; for the creation and assessment of liens against property and the owners and occupants thereof so served and for the collection and enforcement of such liens the same as assessments for taxes, paving of streets and sidewalks, and other liens of the city are now executed and enforced; and further that the said Mayor and Council of the City of Hapeville be and they hereby are authorized and empowered to adopt such ordinances and/or resolutions and/or other acts of a like nature to enforce this provision of the city charter.
Sec. 9. - Authority to assess for cost of improvements.
(a)
The mayor and council shall be authorized to make special assessments with or without petition against benefited property within the corporate limits of the city for:
(1)
Constructing, reconstructing, paving, widening, installing curbs and gutters, and otherwise building and improving streets;
(2)
Constructing, reconstructing, paving, widening, and otherwise building or improving sidewalks in any public street;
(3)
Constructing, reconstruction, extending, and otherwise building or improving water systems;
(4)
Constructing, reconstructing, extending, and otherwise building or improving sanitary sewer lines; and
(5)
Constructing, reconstructions, extending and otherwise building or improving sewage disposal systems.
(b)
Assessments may be made on the basis of:
(1)
The frontage abutting on the project, at an equal rate per foot of frontage; or
(2)
The area of land served, or subject to being served, by the project, at an equal rate per unit of area; or
(3)
The value added to the land served by the project or subject to being served by it, being the difference between the appraised value of the land without improvements as shown on the tax records of the county, and the appraised value of the land with improvements according to the appraisal standards and rules adopted by the county at its last revaluation, at an equal rate per dollar of value added; or
(4)
The number of lots served, or subject to being served, where the project involves extension of an existing system to a residential or commercial subdivision, at an equal rate per lot; or
(5)
A combination of two or more of these bases.
Whenever the basis selected for assessment is either area or value added, the mayor and council may provide for the laying out of benefit zones according to the distance of benefited property from the project being undertaken, and may establish differing rates of assessment to apply uniformly throughout each benefit zone.
For each project, the mayor and council shall endeavor to establish an assessment method from among the bases set out in this section which will most accurately assess each lot or parcel of land according to the benefit conferred upon it by the project. The council's decision as to the method of assessment shall be final and conclusive and not subject to further review or challenge.
(c)
The procedures for execution of the power and authority granted herein shall be as prescribed by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council.
Sec. 10. - Territorial jurisdiction.
For all police purposes, such as peace, good order, health, morals, the control and regulation over the water pipes, valves, hydrants, meters and accessories used in supplying of water wherever extended, or through which water is served and supplied by the City of Hapeville Waterworks outside the city limits of Hapeville, and for the full distance of all said water pipes, and for the full length of said mains, and for all pipes and service connections extending therefrom, and for a distance of 300 feet on all sides of said mains or pipes, the City of Hapeville shall have jurisdiction of the enforcement of all ordinances, rules and regulations of said city, having for their purpose the exercise and control over the water service supplied by said city; and furthermore, the city shall have the right to make laws, rules and regulations for the control of water services wherever supplied inside or outside of the limits, and to fix penalties for the violation thereof. Any person guilty of the violation any of the ordinances, rules and regulations of the City of Hapeville enacted for said purposes as aforesaid within the jurisdiction as above extended shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the municipal court of the City of Hapeville in the same manner as for offenses committed within the city limits.
(Ord. No. 2004-23, § 5(app. A, § 10), 12-21-2004)
Sec. 11. - Rules and regulations.
The Mayor and Council of the City of Hapeville be, and they are, hereby authorized and empowered to make rules and regulations not inconsistent with law for the regulation of its waterworks system, and also to require the owner of any improved real estate within the corporate limits of said city to provide suitable water closet accommodations upon such improved premises, whenever in their judgment and discretion such improvements are necessary or proper to preserve the health or protect the sanitary interests of the citizens of any neighborhood or community of said city; and to prevent the use of water from wells and any and all places in said city for domestic purposes, whenever in their discretion they deem it necessary or proper to preserve the health of the citizens of any neighborhood or community within the corporate limits of said city.
Sec. 12. - Payment of certain supplemental retirement benefits.
The mayor and council shall have the authority, by ordinance, to provide for the payment, from the general fund of the city, of any supplemental benefits, contributions, or other payments, deemed just and equitable by the mayor and council to assure fair and equitable treatment of all past or present employees of the city.
(Ord. No. 85-1, 7-16-1985)
