Appendix A - ZONING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein are the zoning regulations of the City of Reynolds, Georgia, as adopted by the mayor and city council as a resolution on December 10, 1979. Amendments to the resolution are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original resolution. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. Where needed, headings and catchlines have been editorially supplied without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1. - Preamble.
This Ordinance is designed to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers, to promote health and the general welfare, to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue concentration of people, to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public purposes.
ARTICLE 2. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT: PROVISION FOR OFFICIAL ZONING MAP

Sec. 2-1. - Zones established.
The City of Reynolds, Georgia, is hereby divided into zoning districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this Ordinance.
Sec. 2-2. - Certification.
The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, and bearing the seal of the City under the following words:
"This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Article 2 of Ordinance Number 95-02 of the City of Reynolds, Georgia."
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning Map, which may from time to time be made or reproduced, the Official Zoning Map shall be located in the office of the City Clerk.
Sec. 2-3. - Amendments to the map.
If, in accordance with the provisions hereof, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City Council. Failure to portray changes promptly on the map shall not invalidate the changes.
Sec. 2-4. - Rules for interpretation of district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply. They shall be applied in the first instance by the Zoning Administrator, subject to appeal to the Board of Appeals.
a.
Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
b.
Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be construed as following city limits;
c.
Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines;
d.
Boundaries indicated as following railroad tracks shall be construed to be midway between the main tracks;
e.
Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such center lines;
f.
Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated in subsections a. through e. above shall be so construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the scale of the map;
g.
Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not covered by subsections a. through f. above, the Board of Appeals shall interpret the district boundaries.
Sec. 2-5. - Application of district regulations.
The regulations set herein for each district shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
a.
No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity with all the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
b.
No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected, altered or used:
(1)
to exceed the height or bulk herein allowed;
(2)
to accommodate or house a greater number of families than herein allowed;
(3)
to occupy a greater percentage of buildable areas of the lot than herein allowed;
(4)
to have narrower or smaller front yards, rear yards, side yards or other open spaces than herein required; or in any manner be contrary to the provisions hereof.
c.
No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying herewith, shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
Sec. 2-6. - Provisions of Ordinance declared to be minimum requirements.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions hereof shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. Wherever the requirements of this Ordinance are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions, or covenants, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards, shall govern.
ARTICLE 3. - INTERPRETATIONS & DEFINITIONS

Sec. 3-1. - Definitions; rules of construction.
For the purposes of this Ordinance, certain terms or words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
The word person includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual.
The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number includes the plural, and the plural number includes the insular [singular].
The word shall is mandatory, and the word may is permissive.
The words used or occupied include the words intended, designed, or arranged to be used or occupied.
The word lot includes the words plot or parcel.
Accessory Use or Structure - A use or structure on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or structure.
Agriculture - The raising of soil crops in a customary manner on tracts of land at least five (5) acres in size and shall include all associated activities. Agriculture does not include poultry and/or livestock or swine.
Alteration - Any change or rearrangement in structural parts or exit facilities, or an enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height, or any change in use.
Applicant - An owner or his/her designated representative who is submitting an application for consideration under any provision of this Ordinance.
Automobile Service, Major - Automobile repair services which generally require substantial replacement/repair of major components of an automobile. Examples of major automobile services include, but are not limited to, transmission repairs/replacement, paint and body work, engine overhaul, and radiator repair.
Automobile Service, Minor - Automobile maintenance services which generally only require very brief adjustments and replacement of minor components. Examples of minor automobile services include, but are not limited to, tune-up, oil change, lubrication, brake repair, air conditioning system servicing, muffler replacement, and alignment.
Automobile Service Station - A building or premises where products necessary for automobile service or maintenance are sold, provided there is no storage of automobiles, and only minor services are rendered and all repairs are performed indoors. An automobile service station is not a repair garage nor a body shop.
Billboard - A free-standing sign larger than thirty-five (35') feet in gross area, or a wall sign covering more than ten (10%) percent of the area to which it is affixed.
Board of Appeals - The Mayor and City Council of Reynolds, Georgia, designated to hear various appeals and zoning matters.
Boarding [House] or Rooming House - A building dedicated to the lodging and/or feeding, for compensation, of three or more non-transient guests who are not related to the operator's family by blood or marriage, and who neither need nor are provided nursing or supervisory services on the premises.
Body Shop - See Automobile Service, Major.
Buffer - That portion of a lot or parcel of land established for permanent vegetation and open space and intended to separate properties with a different and a possible incompatible type of use/or zoning classification. This area is a distance as specified pursuant to this Ordinance and typically as measured from the common property line of the different uses and/or zoning classifications.
Buffer, Natural - A buffer which is left to remain in its natural state except for minor maintenance activity as may be authorized under this Ordinance.
Buffer, Opaque - A buffer which is of sufficiently dense vegetation and/or other features (such as a fence or earthen berm) as to preclude uninterrupted vision from one side to the other.
Buffer, Planted - A buffer which consists of planted vegetation as provided for in this ordinance.
Buffer, Undisturbed - A buffer, which once installed, is not to be reduced or altered except for minor maintenance as may be authorized under this Ordinance. This term "installed" as used herein refers to the time at which either: (a) the natural buffer is staked out, or (b) the planned buffer is planted and approved.
Buildable Area - The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have been provided.
Building - Any combination of materials, whether portable or affixed to the ground, used for sheltering, housing or the enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, property, or materials of any kind. Such "building" shall include open porches, open breeze ways and any other roofed areas.
Building, Principal - A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is located.
Building Height - The vertical distance of a building measured from the average elevation of the finished grade adjacent to the structure to the highest point of the roof. The measurement shall not include roof appurtenances such as chimneys, antennas, or church steeples.
Building Line, Minimum - The line located no closer to a property line than the required minimum yard lines, behind which all structures shall be located except as otherwise provided herein.
Care Home - An orphanage, rest home, nursing home, convalescent home, boarding home for the aged, personal care home or similar use established to render domiciliary care in which nursing or supervisory care is provided, but not including in-patient facilities providing hospital or clinical treatment for the care of mental patients, epileptics, alcoholics, drug addicts and not including nursery schools.
Center Line of Streets - A line surveyed and monumented as such, or if a center line has not been surveyed and monumented, it shall be the center line of the improved street as it is presently utilized.
City - The City of Reynolds, Georgia.
Clinic - An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are admitted for examination and treatment by one (1) physician or dentist or a group of physicians or dentists practicing medicine.
Club or Lodge, Private - An incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political, recreational, or like activities, operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the general public.
Club House - An accessory structure appurtenant to a golf course, tennis court or swimming pool and used only for the patrons of such uses.
Commercial - Pertaining to the exchange of cash, goods, services or any other remuneration for goods, services, lodging, meals, entertainment in any form.
Common Open Space - That land designated in a development which is undeveloped and of sufficient size and good quality, open, natural, unpaved, except for recreational structures, and easily accessible, which is specifically set aside for common use and enjoyment, and restricted only for such recreational and conservation uses as parks, playgrounds, swimming, golf courses and conservation areas. While the term "common land" may be either singular or plural, the intention and emphasis is on quality and suitability rather than numbers of parcels.
Conditional Use - A use which may be permitted within a zoning district subject to meeting those conditions contained in this Ordinance or required and approved by the Mayor and Council.
Condominium - A building, or group of buildings, in which units are owned individually, and the structure, common areas and facilities are owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis, as more specifically provided in the Code of Georgia. It is a legal form of ownership of real estate and not a specific building style and shall be considered a multi-family dwelling.
Curb Cut - The segment of the boundary of lands bordering and adjacent to a public street providing access for vehicular ingress and/or egress to the property from an abutting public street.
Day Care Center - A business enrolling four (4) or more children under five (5) years of age and where tuition, fees or other forms of compensation for the care of the children is charged.
Driveway - The legal access to a structure from a public street.
Duplex - A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two (2) families living independently of each other.
Dwelling - A building designated or used for permanent living quarters for one (1) or more families or individuals.
Dwelling, Multi-family - A building designed or used as a residence for three or more families living independently of each other in a complete dwelling unit.
Dwelling, Single-Family - A detached building designed for or occupied exclusively by one (1) family.
Factory Built Home - Any structure or component thereof which is designed primarily for residential occupancy and which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation, or assembly and installation, on the building site.
Family - Any number of people occupying a dwelling unit, who are living together as a single housekeeping unit, not to include any housekeeping unit such as a personal care home, nursing home or other arrangement where non-related persons pay or receive compensation for goods or services other than room and board. Provided, further, that unless all members are related by blood or marriage, no such family shall contain more than five (5) persons.
General Service or Repair Establishment - A commercial establishment, the primary concern of which is the rendering of service and repair activities on equipment and appliances rather than the sale of goods. Such establishments include, but are not limited to: watch, clock, radio, television, home appliances, and bicycle repair, but shall not include automotive, truck and earth-moving equipment repair.
Hospital - Any institution receiving in-patients, or a public institution receiving out-patients, and authorized under Georgia law to render medical, surgical, and/or obstetrical care. The term "hospital" shall include a sanitarium for the treatment and care of the mentally ill, but shall not include office facilities for the private practice of medicine or dentistry.
Hotel or Motel - A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary abiding place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which there are six (6) or more guest rooms, and in which no provisions are made for cooking in any individual room or suite.
Junkyard or Salvage Yard - Any business or place of storage or deposit, whether in connection with another business or not, which has stored or deposited: two or more motor vehicles which are no longer intended or in condition for legal use on the public highways, wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles, motor vehicle parts, old iron, metal glass, cordage, paper, batteries, rags, brass, copper, rope, rubber, debris, waste, tires, old metals, bottles, cotton or woolen mill waste, unfinished cloth or other waste or discarded or second-hand material. Junkyards or salvage yards are not permitted within the City.
Lot - For purpose of this Ordinance, a lot is a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on an approved private street, and may consist of:
(a)
Depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between the midpoints of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear.
(b)
Width of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between straight lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot, measured across the rear of the required front yard, provided however that width between side lot lines at their foremost points (where they intersect with the street line) shall not be less than eighty (80%) percent of the required lot width except in the case of lots on the turning circle of culs-de-sac, where the eighty (80%) percent requirement shall not apply.
Lot of Record - A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the County Clerk, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
Lot Types - The diagram (Figure 1) illustrates terminology used in this Ordinance with reference to corner lots, interior lots, reversed frontage lots and through lots.
In the diagram:
A - corner lot, defined as a lot located at the intersection of two or more streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty-five degrees. See lots marked A(1) in the diagram.
B - interior lot, defined as a lot other than a corner lot with only one (1) frontage on a street.
C - through lots, defined as a lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one (1) street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as double frontage lots.
D - reversed frontage lot, defined as a lot on which the frontage is at right angles or approximately right angles (interior angle less than 135 degrees) to the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot (A-D in the diagram), an interior lot (B-D) or a through lot (C-D).
Manufactured Housing - Any structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8') body feet or more in width and forty (40') body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320') square feet or more, and which is built on a permanent foundation when connected to required utilities, which include plumbing, heating and electrical heating systems contained therein. Homes built since June 15, 1976, are constructed in accordance with the standards of the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and bear that department's insignia. Manufactured housing as defined herein shall not include preside [pre-site] built housing.
Manufacturing - Industrial activity which is not offensive to nearby commercial or residential uses, as described below, including manufacture or assembly processes carried on completely inside a building. Manufacturing shall not produce any of the following adverse impacts, as determined at the boundary of the lot:
a.
noise at a level greater than typical street or traffic noise;
b.
hazardous solids, liquids, or gases for emission to the environment;
c.
offensive odors or glare;
d.
offensive vibration; or
e.
any other adverse impact as may be determined by the Mayor and Council, based on evidence presented.
Manufactured Home Park - A lot containing all required utility connections where space is rented for the placement of two (2) or more Manufactured Homes for a period exceeding thirty (30) days.
Mobile Home - Any portable housing unit not meeting the definition of Manufactured Home or Modular House. Mobile homes are prohibited within the City.
Mobile Home Park - Any parcel of land under single ownership designed to accommodate two or more mobile homes to be used for living or sleeping purposes, including any land, building, structure, or other facilities used by the occupants of mobile homes on the property.
Modular House - A factory-fabricated transportable dwelling unit at least twenty-four (24') feet in width, built in sections, and constructed to Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCI) standards showing proof of SBCCI certification and designed to be incorporated on a permanent enclosed foundation with wheels and tongue removed.
Non-Conforming Use - Any use that existed before the adoption of this Ordinance, which does not conform to the district regulations of this Ordinance.
Nursing Home - See Care Home.
Off-Street Loading Space - Space logically and conveniently located for bulk pick up and deliveries, sealed to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are full. Required off-street loading space is not to be included as off-street parking space in computation of required off-street parking space.
Off-Street Parking Space - For the purposes of this Ordinance, an off-street parking space shall consist of a space adequate for parking an automobile with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room.
Office - A portion of a building wherein services are performed involving predominantly administrative, professional or clerical operations.
Outdoor Advertising Business - Provision of outdoor displays or display space on a lease or rental basis only.
Outdoor Storage - Placement on a lot not within a building or structure of supplies, materials, goods, products or surplus materials for more than seven (7) consecutive days or more than thirty (30) days in any year if not fully screened from public view.
Personal Service Establishment - A commercial establishment, the primary concern of which is the rendering of a service to persons or individuals, rather than the sale of products. Such establishments, by way of illustration, include, but are not limited to: barber and beauty shops, shoe repair, dry cleaning and laundry services (pickup and delivery only), and tailoring or dressmaking.
Principal Building - The building containing or to contain the principal use of a lot.
Principal Use - The principal purpose for which a lot or the main building therein is designed, arranged, or intended, and for which it is or may be used, occupied, or maintained.
Recreation Vehicle - A vehicular portable structure, either towed or operated under its own power, designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation or vacation uses, such vehicles being commonly known as "campers," "recreational vehicles," or "travel trailers."
Residential Zoning District - As used herein, the term residential zoning refers to AR, R-1, and R-2.
Restaurant - An establishment whose principal business is serving food and which does not include any of the following operations:
a.
An establishment whose principal business is the sale of food and/or beverages in previously prepared, prepackaged, ready-to-consume individual servings; or
b.
An establishment that includes a drive-up or drive-through facility or curb service; or
c.
An establishment where there are fewer than fifteen (15) customer seats per one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area in the establishment; or
d.
An establishment that does not provide waiter/waitress service to the customer seating area (exclusive of salad bars).
Restaurant, Fast Food - An establishment whose principal business is the sale of foods, frozen desserts, or beverages in ready-to-consume individual servings, for consumption either within the restaurant building or for carry-out, and where:
a.
foods, frozen desserts, or beverages are usually served in paper, plastic, or other disposable containers; or
b.
where the majority of customers are not served their food, frozen desserts, or beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or counter where the items are consumed; or
c.
the establishment includes a drive-up or drive-through service facility or offers curb service.
Right-of-Way - A strip of land that is generally used for the location of a street, walkway, utility line or other access way, that is separate and distinct from the lots and parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such other lots or parcels.
Satellite Dish Antennas - A device incorporating a reflective surface that is solid, open mesh, or bar-configured and is in the shape of a shallow dish cone, horn, or cornucopia, used to transmit and/or receive radio or electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based uses. This definition is meant to include, but not be limited to what are commonly referred to as satellite earth stations, TVROs, and satellite microwave antennas.
Shopping Center - A group of commercial establishments having a building composition that is an architectural unit and is not a miscellaneous assemblage of stores, planned, developed, analyzed as a unit, related in location, size and type of shops to the trade area that the unit serves, and providing on-site parking in definite relationship to the types and sizes of stores. Shopping Centers are classified by type, each distinctive in its own function.
a.
Neighborhood Shopping Center - provides for the sale of convenience goods (foods, drugs, sundries, etc.) and personal services (laundry, dry cleaning, barbering, shoe repair, etc.) for the day-to-day living needs of the immediate neighborhood, and is usually built around a supermarket which is the principal tenant.
b.
Community Shopping Center - in addition to the convenience goods and personal services of the neighborhood center, provides a wider range for the sale of soft lines (apparel, etc.) hard lines (hardware and appliances) and includes eating facilities, making more depth of merchandise and services available. It is usually built around a junior department store or variety store which is the principal tenant.
c.
Regional Shopping Center - provides for general merchandise, apparel, furniture and home furnishings in full depth and variety. It is built with one (1) or more full-line department stores as the focal point.
Sign - Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons not on the premises on which the sign is located, provided however, that the following shall not be included in the application of the regulations herein:
a.
signs not exceeding one (1') square foot in area and bearing only property numbers, post box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
b.
flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in connection with commercial promotion;
c.
legal notices, identification, information, or directional signs erected or required by governmental bodies;
d.
integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights;
e.
signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property, but bearing no advertising matter.
Sign, Off-Site - A sign other than an on-site sign.
Sign, On-Site - A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on the premises. On-site signs do not include signs erected by the outdoor advertising industry in the conduct of the outdoor advertising business.
Signs, Number and Surface Area - For the purpose of determining number of signs, a sign shall be considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements organized, related, and composed to form a unit. Where matter is displayed in a random manner without organized relationship of elements, each element shall be considered to be a single sign.
The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area within a regular geometric form or combinations of regular geometric forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not bearing advertising matter shall not be included in computation of surface area.
Special Exception - A use which within certain districts specified by this Ordinance is not permitted as a matter of right, but may be permitted within these districts by the City Council after it has:
a.
reviewed, in conjunction with the Standards of Review, the proposed site plans, its location within the City, its arrangements and design, its relationship to neighboring property and other conditions peculiar to the particular proposal which would determine its desirability or undesirability; and
b.
found the proposal not to be contrary to the intent of this Ordinance.
Street - A thoroughfare used, or intended to be used, for passage or travel by motor vehicles.
Structure - A combination of materials for occupancy or use, such as a building, bridge, trestle, tower, framework, tank, satellite dish, tunnel, tent, stadium, platform, shelter, pier, wharf, bin, sign, fences and retaining walls over six (6') feet in height, swimming pools, sports courts, or the like.
Subdivision - The division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions, the combination of two or more lots or parcels to form one, the division of land involving the dedication of a new street, easement, or other public way for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, transference, legacy, development or other purposes, includes re-subdivisions, and, where appropriate, relates to the process of subdividing the land or area subdivided. Exemptions are as follows:
a.
the public acquisition of land for use in widening existing streets; and
b.
the transference of part of one lot or tract in an existing subdivision to adjacent lot or tract in the same subdivision providing that the transference does not reduce any lot or tract to an area or width less than the zoning minimum of the area and does not increase the total number of lots; and
c.
division of land into five (5) acre minimum lots where no new road is constructed or dedicated.
Swimming Pool - Any constructed or prefabricated pool over eighteen (18") inches in depth used for swimming or bathing.
Structure - Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences, billboards, and poster panels.
Travel Trailer - A vehicular portable structure, either towed or operated under its own power, designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation or vacation uses, such vehicles being commonly known as "campers," "recreational vehicles," or "travel trailers."
Trailer - A vehicle designed for towing, not intended for use as a dwelling, either temporary or permanent, and restricted to such uses as a temporary construction office and/or storage facility, temporary operations office pending construction of a permanent facility, and the like.
Transmission Tower - Any structure used to transmit or retransmit, for commercial purposes, electronic wireless communication.
Truck Terminal - Land and buildings used as a relay station for the transfer of a load from one vehicle to another or one party to another. The terminal cannot be used for permanent or long-term accessory storage for principal land uses at other locations. The terminal facility may include storage areas for trucks and buildings or areas for the repair of trucks associated with the terminal.
Variance - A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the Zoning Ordinance where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the Ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. As used in this Ordinance, a variance is authorized only for height, area, and size of structure or size of yards and open spaces; establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by variance, nor shall a variance be granted because of the pressure of non-conformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district.
Warehouse - A building used exclusively, except for appurtenant office space, for the storage of goods or merchandise.
Yard - A required open space other than a court unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure or portion of a structure from thirty (30") inches above the general ground level of the graded lot upward, provided however than fences, walls, poles, posts, and other customary yard accessories, ornaments, and furniture may be permitted in any yard subject to height limitations and requirements limiting obstruction of visibility.
Yard, Front - A yard extending between side lot lines across the front of a lot adjoining a public street.
In any required front yard, no fence or wall shall be permitted which materially impedes vision across such yard above the height of thirty (30") inches, and no hedge or other vegetation shall be permitted which materially impedes vision across such yard between the heights of thirty (30") inches and ten (10') feet.
In the case of through lots, unless the prevailing front yard pattern on adjoining lots indicates otherwise, front yards shall be provided on all frontages. Where one of the front yards that would normally be required on a through lot is not in keeping with the prevailing yard pattern, the administrative official may waive the requirement which shall not exceed the average of the yards provided on adjacent lots.
In the case of corner lots which do not have reversed frontage, a front yard of the required depth shall be provided in accordance with the prevailing yard pattern and a second front yard of half the depth required generally for front yards in the district shall be provided on the other frontage.
In the case of reversed frontage corner lots, a front yard of the required depth shall be provided on either frontage, and a second front yard of half the depth required generally for front yards in the district shall be provided on the other frontage.
In the case of corner lots with more than two frontages, the administrative official shall determine the front yard requirements, subject to the following limitations: (1) At least one (1) front yard shall be provided having the full depth required generally in the district; (2) No other front yard on such lot shall have less than half the full depth required generally.
Depth of required front yards shall be measured at right angles to a straight line joining the foremost points of the side lot lines. The foremost point of the side lot line, in the case of rounded property corners at street intersections, shall be assumed to be the point at which the side and front lot lines would have met without such rounding. Front and rear front yard lines shall be parallel.
Yard, Rear - A yard extending across the rear of the lot between inner side yard lines. In the case of through lots and corner lots, there will be no rear yards, but only front and side yards.
Depth of a required rear yard shall be measured in such a manner that the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by district regulations with its inner edge parallel with the rear lot line.
Yard, Side - A yard extending from the rear line of the required front yard to the rear lot line, or in the absence of any clearly defined rear lot line to the point on the lot farthest from the intersection of the lot line involved with the public street. In the case of through lots, side yards shall extend from the rear lines of front yards required. In the case of corner lots, yards remaining after full- and half-depth front yards have been established shall be considered side yards.
Width of a required side yard shall be measured in such a manner that the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by district regulations with its inner edge parallel with the side lot line.
The diagram (Figure 2), see attached map, illustrates location and methods of measuring yards on rectangular and non-rectangular lots.
Zoning Administrator - The individual selected by the Mayor and Council whose duty it shall be to administer and enforce the provisions of this Ordinance.
ARTICLE 4. - NON-CONFORMANCES

Sec. 4.1. - Non-conforming lots.
a.
Structures shall be permitted on a lot having frontage or an area which is less than that required by said district, if said structure is permitted by right within that district and if the following provisions are met:
(1)
The lot was a lot of record and duly recorded at the Taylor County Registry of Deeds prior to the adoption of the original Zoning Ordinance on July 7, 1977;
(2)
The lot is capable of supporting a well and septic system designed and installed in compliance with all applicable City and State of Georgia wellhead regulations;
(3)
All uses, buildings, structures, wells or septic systems shall comply with applicable setback requirements; and
(4)
Sufficient access by way of a City maintained highway or approved subdivision road located in the City of Reynolds must be available.
b.
If two (2) or more lots of record are contiguous and in single ownership on the effective date of this Ordinance, and if any of said lots are vacant and do not comply with the dimensional requirements of frontage and area, then those lots shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this Ordinance. This provision shall not apply to lots in a subdivision approved by the Planning Staff.
c.
No portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes compliance with frontage and area requirements established by this Ordinance, not shall any division be made which creates a lot with frontage or area below said requirements. Further, yard dimensions and requirements other than those applying to area and frontage shall conform to the regulations for the district in which the lot is located.
Sec. 4.2. - Non-conforming structures.
Where a lawful building or structure exists at the effective date of this Ordinance or applicable amendment that could not be built under the terms of this Ordinance or amendment by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards or other dimensional requirements, the building or structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
a.
No such non-conforming building or structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its non-conformity, but any building or structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its non-conformity;
b.
A non-conforming building or structure which is destroyed by fire or other hazard may be restored to its former bulk provided that it was not destroyed voluntarily, less than seventy-five (75%) percent of the structure was destroyed, and restoration is begun within twelve (12) months after the act of destruction;
c.
Should a nonconforming building or structure be intentionally moved for any reason for any distance whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located after it is moved.
Sec. 4.3. - Non-conforming uses.
Where on the effective date of adoption of this Ordinance or applicable amendment, a lawful use of land exists which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this Ordinance or amendment, the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided that:
a.
No such non-[con]forming use shall be enlarged or increased nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance;
b.
No such non-conforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to any portion of the lot other than that occupied by such use at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this Ordinance;
c.
If any such non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period of more than twelve (12) consecutive months, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by this Ordinance for the district in which such use is located;
d.
No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this section shall be erected in connection with such non-conforming use of land;
e.
No junkyard may continue as a non-conforming use for more than one (1) year after the effective date of the adoption of this Zoning Ordinance of the City of Reynolds, except that a junkyard may continue as a non-conforming use in a commercial or industrial district if within that period it is screened, with screening not less than eight (8') feet in height and in any case sufficient so as to screen completely the operations of the junkyard. Plans of screening shall be approved by the Planning Staff before they are erected.
ARTICLE 5. - DISTRICT REGULATIONS

Sec. 5.1. - Schedule of district regulations adopted.
District regulations shall be as set forth in the Schedule of District Regulations, hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this Ordinance. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to interpret the schedule, subject to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Sec. 5.2. - Visibility of intersections in residential districts.
On a corner lot in any residential district, nothing can be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially to impede vision between a height or two and a half (2½') and ten (10') feet above the center line grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines fifty (50') feet from the point of intersection.
Sec. 5.3. - Fences, walls and hedges.
On any required yard in any residential district, fences, walls, and hedges may be permitted, provided that no fence, wall or hedge along the side or front edge of any front yard shall be over two and one-half (2½') feet in height.
Sec. 5.4. - Accessory buildings.
No accessory building shall be erected in any required yard, and no accessory building shall be erected within five (5') feet of another building.
Sec. 5.5. - Erection of one principal structure on a lot.
In any district, only one (1) principal structure housing a permitted or permissible use may be erected on a single lot. Mobile homes and manufactured homes must be on separate lots.
Sec. 5.6. - Structures to have access.
Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a public street and abut said street for twenty (20') feet, or have access to any approved private street to provide safe and convenient access for servicing, fire protection and required off-street parking.
Sec. 5.7. - Exceptions to height limitations.
Height limitations contained in the Schedule of District Regulations do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level not intended for human occupancy.
Sec. 5.8. - Performance standards of industrial activities.
All activities in any industrial district, shall be in conformance with standards established by the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 5.9. - Lot size and occupance [occupancy].
No lot, even though it may consist of one (1) or more adjacent lots in the same ownership at the time of passage of this Ordinance, shall be reduced in size so that lot width or size of yards or lot area per family or any other requirement of this Ordinance is not maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public use.
Sec. 5.10. - Minimum lot sizes for residences using septic tank systems.
No single-family residence shall be permitted on a lot of less than forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560') square feet which is to be served by septic tank(s), regardless of the zoning district classification. With respect to existing platted lots, the Taylor County Board of Health will evaluate each individual request for a permit on a case-by-case basis. This restriction on lot size does not apply to residential development served by a central sewage system approved by the Mayor and Council and the Department of Natural Resources.
Sec. 5.11. - General provisions.
a.
No owner or occupant of land in any district shall permit ruins from a fire or a naturally collapsed structure to be left, but shall remove the same within six (6) months.
b.
Any persistent uses that may be obnoxious or injurious by reason of the product or emission of odor, dust, smoke, refuse matter, fumes, noise, vibration, or similar conditions or that are dangerous to the comfort, peace, enjoyment, health or safety of the community are prohibited.
c.
All developments shall comply with the parking requirements, specified herein.
(1)
The temporary use of a trailer by a person engaged in adjoining construction work, or for whom a residence is being built, shall be allowed provided that such use is shown to be a temporary expedient, and if permitted by the City Council. The City Council may grant such permission for a period not to exceed three (3) months, except that they may renew, in their discretion, such permission at the expiration of said three (3) month period.
(2)
Any property owner or lessee may accommodate one (1) recreation vehicle of a nonpaying guest in their yard for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days in any one year.
d.
Within any residential district, no wall or fence shall exceed two and one half (2½') feet in height within or along a boundary of a front yard. No wall or fence shall exceed six (6') feet in height within or along a boundary of a rear yard. Any wall or fence within or along side yard boundaries must be set back at least eight (8') feet from the front setback requirements and may not exceed four (4') feet in height.
e.
All non-residential developments shall install and maintain a twenty (20') foot wide undisturbed buffer between their property and any abutting residential utilized properties.
f.
All non-residential developments shall install and maintain screened areas for the purposes of service, refuse and/or storage. These areas shall be screened from public view from streets and/or adjoining properties.
Sec. 5.12. - Use regulations.
a.
A use is permitted as a matter of right in the district in which it is denoted, subject to all other applicable local, state and federal regulations. Uses allowed in each district shall not include those uses allowed in any other districts, unless specifically provided.
b.
A use denoted by the letter "c" following a zoning designation is permitted by right only when in compliance with the conditions imposed as specified in the Zoning Ordinance herein or by the Mayor and Council as otherwise authorized herein, subject to all other applicable local, state and federal regulations.
Sec. 5.13. - Home occupations.
Business occupations, trades, or professions customarily carried on by occupants in dwelling units as secondary uses of such dwellings and which are clearly incidental to the uses of dwelling units for residential purposes are allowed in Residential and Agricultural Zoning Districts as accessory uses, subject to the following provisions, conditions and restrictions:
a.
Location. Home occupations shall be conducted only within the principal residential structure.
b.
Use of Premises. An area equal to not more than twenty-five (25%) percent of the floor area of the principal structure may be utilized for home occupational purposes.
c.
Employees. Only members of a family residing on the premises may be employed on the premises in pursuit of the business, trade or occupation or profession.
d.
Visibility of Merchandise. No merchandise shall be displayed in such a manner as to be visible from off the premises.
e.
Outdoor Storage. No outdoor storage of any items related to the business, trade, profession or occupation shall be allowed in connection with any home occupation.
f.
Maintenance of Residential Character. No alteration of the residential character of the premises may be made, and the home occupation shall not be allowed to create a nuisance or to create any undue disturbance.
g.
Signs. No signs relating to the home occupation shall be allowed on the premises.
h.
Noise. No business, trade, profession or occupation shall qualify as a home occupation if the pursuit of such generates noise which is audible beyond the property lines of the property upon which the premises is located.
i.
Vehicles. No business, trade, profession or occupation which generates vehicular trips of non-residents to the premises normally exceeding five (5) per day shall qualify as a home occupation. Nor shall delivery of merchandise by common carrier to the premises of the business holding the home occupation license exceed more than one (1) trip per week.
j.
Vehicle Advertising. No vehicles which display advertising relating to an occupation, business, trade or profession carried on the premises of a home occupation may be utilized in such a manner so as to avoid the restriction on signs contained above.
k.
Vehicle Limitations. No more than one (1) passenger vehicle displaying advertising related to the business, trade, profession or occupation carried on the premises may be parked on or about the premises at any one time. Off-street parking must be provided on paved surfaces.
l.
Storage or Parking of Equipment. Except as allowed by item (k) above, no business, trade, occupation or profession otherwise qualifying as a home occupation shall be permitted to park or store any vehicular or motorized equipment, including, but not limited to, trucks, vans, tractors, earth-moving equipment, construction vehicles, trailers or like items used in the conduct of such business on the premises.
m.
Chemicals. No business, trade, occupation or profession which would otherwise qualify as a home occupation may store any chemical not normally used for common household purposes on the premises.
n.
Inspections. As a condition for the granting of a home occupation license, the licensee agrees that the City shall conduct an inspection prior to issuance of a permit and may conduct reasonable inspections during normal business hours for the purpose of determining whether or not the provisions of this code section are being complied with.
o.
Occasional Use. The occasional use of portions of the premises for the receipt of telephone calls or consultation with clients, or the maintenance of a home office by an employee or owner of a business which maintains an active office location in a properly zoned area shall not require a home occupation permit, provided that all the other limitations of this section shall control.
p.
Fee, Violations, Penalties.
(1)
All persons, as that term is defined elsewhere in this code, operating a business, occupation, trade or profession in a residence, except as provided in item (o) above, shall obtain a home occupation permit from the Zoning Administrator and shall obtain a business license from the City. The fee for the issuance of the Home Occupation Permit shall be as established by the Mayor and Council from time to time. Pursuit of a business, trade or profession within a residence without compliance with these provisions shall be a violation hereof and shall subject the violator to punishment as elsewhere provided in this case.
(2)
In addition to and not in lieu of the fine, the City may initiate business license revocation proceedings against any person violating these provisions.
Sec. 5.4[14]. - Structures and uses common to all residential districts.
There exist certain uses of land and buildings where are compatible and acceptable when located in various residential districts provided that each structure and use conform to the use, development intensity restrictions, development dimensional requirements, and other specified conditions for the specific structure and use and/or the particular residential district. Uses specified in this section are allowed in the various residential districts subject to the restrictions and requirements imposed by the particular district regulations, this section, and other sections of this Ordinance.
a.
Permitted Structures and Uses.
(1)
Single-family dwellings other than manufactured home dwellings;
(2)
Publicly owned and operated parks and recreation areas;
(3)
City governmental buildings;
(4)
Home occupations;
(5)
Accessory structures and uses as specified;
(6)
Club houses.
b.
Accessory Structures and Uses.
(1)
Accessory structures not exceeding district height restrictions and uses are permitted provided that an accessory structure shall be located entirely within the rear yard and shall be located at least ten (10') feet from any property line. However, accessory structures shall not be located within any drainage or sewage easement.
Specific accessory structures and uses thus permitted include:
(a).
Carports and garages;
(b).
Storage and utility buildings;
(c).
The parking of one (1) unoccupied recreation vehicle or pleasure boat owned or used by the owner of the property or residents of the property on which it is located.
(2)
Recreation areas and structures owned, operated and maintained exclusively for the use of residents and guests of residents of the subdivision, multiple family, or mobile home park development for which such areas and structures were developed are permitted provided, that said areas and structures are controlled by the development's property owners.
c.
Conditional Structures and Uses. Upon application to, and favorable decision thereon by, the Mayor and Council pursuant to the Standards of Review, the conditional structures and uses specified herein are permitted in residential districts provided that their establishment promotes the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the City. Specific conditional structures and uses which may be permitted are as follows:
(1)
Electric and natural gas utility substations, when located in accordance with the requirements and restrictions set forth in the specific district's regulations. All such substations shall have a landscaped and/or masonry barrier of at least eight (8') feet in height on all sides as specified by the Zoning Administrator and shall be at least one hundred (100') feet from the nearest resident.
(2)
Country clubs including golf courses, swimming pools, tennis clubs and neighborhood club houses all of which shall be located on a tract of land of at least one (1) acre and open only to paid memberships. Sleeping accommodations may only be provided for one (1) caretaker, manager, employee or security guard.
ARTICLE 6. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT, BUILDING PERMITS, AND CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE

Sec. 6.1. - Administration and enforcement.
The Zoning Administrator shall administer, interpret, and enforce this Ordinance. If the administrative official shall find that any of the provisions of this Ordinance are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures, removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes, discontinuance of any illegal work being done, or shall take any other action authorized by this Ordinance to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
Sec. 6.2. - Building permits required.
No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a building permit therefor, issued by the administrative official. No building permit shall be issued by the administrative official except in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance, unless he receives a written order from the Board of Appeals in the form of administrative review.
Sec. 6.3. - Application for building permit[s].
All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by plans in triplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and locations on the lot of buildings already existing, if any, and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or alteration. The application shall include such other information as lawfully may be required by the administrative official, including, but not limited to, existing or proposed uses of the building and land, the number of families, conditions existing on the lot, and such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of, this ordinance.
One (1) copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the administrative official, after he shall have marked such copy either as approved or disapproved and attested by his signature on such copy. The original and one (1) copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the zoning official.
Sec. 6.4. - Certificates of zoning compliance for new, altered, or non-conforming uses.
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued therefor by the administrative official stating that the proposed use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this Ordinance.
No non-conforming structure or use shall be maintained, renewed, changed, or extended until a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the administrative official. The certificate of zoning compliance shall state specifically wherein the non-conforming use differs from the provisions of this Ordinance, provided that upon enactment or amendment of this Ordinance, owners or occupants of non-conforming uses or structures shall have three months to apply for certificate of zoning compliance. Failure to make such application within three (3) months shall be presumptive evidence that the property was in conforming use at the time of enactment or amendment of this Ordinance.
No permit for erection, alteration, moving, or repair of any building shall be issued until an application has been made for a certificate of zoning compliance, and the certificate shall be issued in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance upon completion of the work.
A temporary certificate of zoning compliance may be issued by the administrative official for a period not exceeding six (6) months during alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion, provided that such temporary certificate may include such conditions and safeguards as will protect the safety of the occupants and the public.
The administrative official shall maintain a record of all certificates of zoning compliance, and a copy shall be furnished upon request to any person.
Failure to obtain a certificate zoning of compliance [certificate of zoning compliance] shall be a violation of this Ordinance.
Sec. 6.5. - Expiration of building permit.
If the work described in any building permit has not begun within ninety (90) days from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire; it shall be canceled by the administrative official, and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected.
If the work described in any building permit has not been substantially completed within two (2) years of the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and be canceled by the administrative official, and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed unless and until a new building permit has been obtained.
Sec. 6.6. - Construction and use to be as provided in applications, plans, permits, and certificate of zoning compliance.
Building permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the administrative official authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and applications. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that authorized shall be deemed violation of this Ordinance.
Sec. 6.7. - Schedule of fees, charges, and expenses.
The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and expenses and a collection procedure for building permits and other matters pertaining to this Ordinance. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the administrative official, and may be amended only by the City Council.
Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
Sec. 6.8. - Complaints regarding violations.
Whenever a violation of this Ordinance occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the administrative official. He shall record properly such complaint, immediately investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this Ordinance.
ARTICLE 7. - BOARD OF APPEALS: ESTABLISHMENT AND PROCEDURE

Sec. 7.0 - General appointment and authority.
The Mayor and Council shall constitute the Board of Appeals unless others are appointed and shall have the following powers and duties.
Sec. 7.1. - Duties of administrative official, board of appeals, and courts on matters of appeal.
It is the intent of this Ordinance that all questions of interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the Zoning Administrator, and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of Appeals only on appeal from the decision of the Zoning Administrator, and that the recourse from the decisions of the Board of Appeals shall be to the courts as provided by law.
Sec. 7.2. - Proceedings of the board of appeals.
The Board of Appeals shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this Ordinance. Meetings shall be at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine. All meetings shall be open to the public.
The Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact. All records of its examinations and other official actions, shall be a public record and immediately filed in the office of the Board.
Sec. 7.3. - Hearings, appeals, notice.
Appeals to the Board of Appeals concerning interpretation or administration of this Ordinance may be taken by any persons aggrieved or by any officer or bureau of the governing body of the City affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator. Such appeals shall be taken within fifteen (15) days by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
Sec. 7.4. - Stay of proceedings.
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Appeals after the notice of appeal is filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Zoning Administrator from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
Sec. 7.5. - The board of appeals: powers and duties.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the following powers:
a.
Administrative Appeals. Hear and decide appeals if it is alleged there is error in any order, requirements, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of any Zoning Ordinance.
1.
In exercising these powers, the Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order or decision as ought to be made and, to that end, shall have all the powers of an administrative official from whom the appeal is taken.
2.
The concurring vote of three (3) members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any action of the administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter on which it is required to pass.
b.
Variances. Authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of the Zoning Ordinance.
c.
Special Exceptions. Authorize special exceptions to the terms of the Ordinance for uses specifically identified in the District Specifications.
Sec. 7.6. - Special exceptions.
The Board may grant such special exceptions in appropriate cases and subject to appropriate conditions so as to be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the Zoning ordinance. In granting a special exception, the Board shall apply the following standards and those contained in Section 807 [8.7]:
a.
No detriment to property values in the vicinity of the proposed development will result on account of: the location or scale of buildings, structures, parking areas or other access ways, the emission of odors, smoke, gas, dust, noise, glare, heat, vibration, or other pollutants, or the unsightly outdoor storage of equipment, vehicles or other materials.
b.
No hazard will be caused to the public or adjacent property on account of potential fire, explosive or release of toxic materials.
c.
No creation of traffic safety hazard or substantial traffic congestion in the vicinity of the proposed development.
d.
The proposed use will not result in the degradation of existing surface and ground water quality standards, nor will it have adverse effects on the natural functions of wetlands on the site which would result in the loss of significant habitat or flood control protection.
e.
Those additional standards adopted herein for general consideration.
Sec. 7.7. - Variances.
Variances may be granted in an individual case of hardship upon a finding by the Board of Appeals that all of the following conditions exists:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of size, shape, or topography that are not applicable to other lands or structures in the same district;
b.
A literal interpretation of the provisions of this Ordinance would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by the other properties of the district in which the property is located;
c.
Granting the variance request will not confer upon the property of the applicant any special privileges that are denied to other properties of the district in which the applicant's property is located;
d.
The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the general welfare;
e.
The special circumstance are not the result of the actions of the applicant;
f.
The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make possible the legal use of the land, building or structure; and
g.
The variance is not a request to permit a use of land, building, or structures which is not permitted by right in the district involved.
Sec. 7.8. - Limitations on authorization of variances.
a.
A variance may only be authorized for the following requirements of this Ordinance:
1.
height of structure;
2.
area of structure;
3.
size of structure;
4.
amount of front, rear, and side yard setbacks;
5.
size of open spaces (but not buffers).
b.
A variance may not be granted to establish or expand a use otherwise prohibited. Presence of non-conformities in the zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district shall not be sole cause for granting variance.
Sec. 7.9. - Variance procedure.
a.
An applicant for a variance shall file a written request with the Zoning Administrator. This request shall be on such forms as the Zoning Administrator provides and shall include such information and materials as the Zoning Administrator requires. At a minimum, the request must include the owner's name, address, and telephone number, the property's legal description, a plat of the property, a description of the request, and the reason(s) for the request.
b.
The Zoning Administrator shall review the request to determine if it meets the minimum legal requirements for a variance as set forth above. If the Zoning Administrator determines that the request does not meet the minimum legal requirements for a variance, the applicant shall be notified of the decision and the appeal process and the Zoning Administrator shall cease processing the request.
c.
If the Zoning administrator determines that the request meets the minimum legal requirements for a variance, then the Zoning Administrator shall provide for the scheduling of a hearing by the Board of Zoning Appeals and giving of public notice of said hearing in accordance with the rules of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
d.
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall conduct the hearing on a properly noticed variance request and render a decision based upon the specific criteria set forth above.
e.
The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
ARTICLE 8. - AMENDMENTS AND PROCEDURE

Sec. 8.1. - General.
a.
These regulations, including the Official Zoning Map, may be amended by the governing authority of the City of Reynolds.
b.
Proposed changes in regulations or in boundaries may be initiated by the Council, a Committee of the Council, a Council Member, the Planning Staff, or an application filed with the Clerk of the City by the owner of the affected property or an authorized agent.
Sec. 8.2. - Filing.
a.
All applications for Amendment, Variance or Special exception shall be filed with the City through the Office of the City Clerk, no later than 5:00 p.m. the first Monday of the month, to be heard the following month. Two or more applicants shall not join their respective land in single applicants unless each owns a substantial interest in all of such lands.
Sec. 8.3. - Filing fees.
The filing fee of Three Hundred ($300.00) Dollars is hereby established for applications for zoning amendment, variance, or special exception.
Sec. 8.4. - Form.
Application shall be made on such forms as shall be prescribed by the Zoning Administrator. An original application signed by the owner or agent of the owner of the property involved, together with a plat of the property, legal description of the property, and such other materials and copies thereof that the Zoning Administrator may require.
a.
Application required to be on forms supplied - Applications shall be submitted on approved forms supplied to prospective applicants. Any communication purporting to be an application for a change shall be regarded as mere notice to seek relief until made in the form required by the owner of property involved or their authorized representative.
b.
If a rezoning of specific property is involved, the application shall also be accompanied by a plat of survey prepared by a registered professional engineer or land surveyor.
c.
Each proposed zoning change shall be accompanied by a written, documented analysis of the impact of the proposed zoning with respect to each of the surrounding properties.
Sec. 8.5. - Notice of hearing.
a.
The City shall cause a legal notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Taylor County, Georgia, at least fifteen (15) but not more than forty-five (45) days prior to the required public hearing stating, where applicable, the time and place of said hearing, the location of the property, and the present and proposed zoning classifications.
b.
Additionally, whenever a proposed amendment to this Ordinance involves changes in the zoning classification of property from one zone to another (map amendment), the Zoning Administrator shall cause to have posted in a conspicuous Place on the area proposed to be rezoned one (1) or more signs, each of which shall not be less than three (3') square feet in area and each of which shall contain the time, date(s) and location of the public hearing(s) scheduled for the application and such other information as the Zoning Administrator deems appropriate.
c.
If the property proposed for rezoning does not have frontage on a public street, then an additional sign may be posted on the right-of-way of the nearest public street which provides access to the site. No public hearing may be held until said sign(s) has been posted for at least fifteen (15) days.
Sec. 8.6. - Hearing on zoning matters - procedures.
a.
The Mayor and Council will hold a public hearing on all petitions referred to it as scheduled by the Zoning Administrator. All public hearings set forth in this section shall be held in the City Hall in Reynolds, Georgia.
b.
The governing, calling and conducting of [the] hearing of the Mayor and Council shall be accomplished in accordance with the following policies and procedures:
1.
If any person desires a stenographic record of the proceedings, such person shall make arrangement for such on his own volition and shall be responsible for all costs incurred. No stenographer not arranged for in accordance with this section shall be allowed to set up in the hearing room.
2.
The presiding officer shall indicate that a public hearing has been called for the consideration of zoning decisions. Thereupon the deliberative body shall consider each application on an individual basis.
3.
When an application comes up for review, the presiding officer may ask for a show of hands for those persons who appear in support of/opposition to the petition. If it appears that the number of persons wishing to appear in support of/opposition to the petition is in excess of that which may reasonably be heard, the presiding officer may request that a spokesman for the group be chosen so that the entire presentation of the positions of those in support of/opposition to the petition shall not exceed thirty (30) minutes.
4.
After the comments and concerns of the public have been heard, the deliberative body may thereupon request a report from the officers or agents of the City.
5.
The applicant for the zoning amendment shall be allowed a short opportunity for rebuttal and final comment.
6.
After the above procedures have been completed, the chairman will indicate that the public hearing is formally closed.
7.
After the public hearing is closed, the deliberative body may either vote upon the proposed change or may delay their vote to a subsequent meeting, provided, that notice of the time, date and location when such zoning decision is to be made shall be announced at the meeting during which the public hearing is held.
Sec. 8.7. - Standard of review.
a.
In ruling on any application for zoning text or map amendment, or on any other legislative or administrator decision referred to them for the exercise of their discretion under provisions of the City of Reynolds Zoning administrator, the Board of Appeals, and the Mayor and Council shall act in the best interest of the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the City. In doing so, they will consider one or more of the following factors as they may be relevant to the application:
1.
the existing land use pattern;
2.
the possible creation of an isolated district unrelated to the uses allowed in adjacent and nearby districts;
3.
the possible density pattern and possible increase on or overtaxing of the load on public facilities, including, but not limited to, schools, utilities and streets;
4.
the cost to the City and other governmental entities in providing, improving, increasing or maintaining public utilities, schools, streets and other public safety measures;
5.
the possible impact on the environment, including, but not limited to, drainage, soil erosion and sedimentation, flooding, air quality and water quality;
6.
whether the proposed zoning map amendment will be a deterrent to the improvement or development of adjacent property in accordance with existing regulations;
7.
whether there are substantial reasons why the property cannot be used in accordance with existing regulations;
8.
the aesthetic effect of existing and future use of the property as it relates to the surrounding area;
9.
the extent to which the proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the land use plan;
10.
the possible effects of the proposed zoning map amendment on the character of a zoning district, a particular piece of property, neighborhood, a particular area or community;
11.
the relation that the proposed zoning map amendment bears to the purpose of the overall zoning scheme, with due consideration given to whether or not the proposed change will help carry out the purposes of the zoning regulation;
12.
application for a zoning map amendment which do not contain a specific site plan shall carry a rebuttal presumption that such rezoning shall adversely affect the zoning scheme;
13.
the consideration of the preservation of the integrity of residential neighborhoods shall be considered to carry great weight;
14.
in those instances in which property fronts on a major thoroughfare and also adjoins an established residential neighborhood, the factor of preservation of the residential area shall be considered to carry great weight.
b.
After hearing evidence at the hearing, the deliberative body shall apply the evidence to the standards of review in making their decision. It will not be required that the deliberative body consider every criteria contained in the standards of review. It shall be the duty of the applicant to carry the burden of proof that the proposed zoning map amendment promotes the public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
c.
If the deliberative body determines from the evidence presented that the applicant has shown that the proposed zoning map amendment promotes the health, safety, morals and general welfare under the standards of review, then the application shall be granted, subject to those reasonable provisions as may be imposed by the deliberative body pursuant to other provisions of the City of Reynolds Zoning Ordinance. Otherwise, such application shall be denied.
d.
In ruling on any petition in which the petitioner has brought a challenge of the existing zoning classification, the deliberative body may impose upon said property any appropriate zoning classification, including provisions allowed by other sections of the City of Reynolds Zoning Ordinance, which might be consistent with the consideration contain above.
Sec. 8.8. - Zoning of annexed property.
Property annexed into the City of Reynolds shall be assigned a zoning classification provided by this Ordinance that conforms to the pre-existing classification and use of the subject property. In the event that this Ordinance fails to provide a zoning classification that is comparable to and permits the use or uses allowed under the pre-existing zoning classification, and provided further, that the City Council does approve said annexation, then, in that event, the City Council shall consider the issue of the initial zoning classification of said property at the same public hearing at which the issue of annexation is to be considered. In the event that the City of Reynolds Zoning Ordinance does provide for a comparable zoning classification, but does not allow those uses permitted under the pre-existing zoning classification, and provided further that the City Council does approve said annexation, then, in that event, the City Council may permit such pre-existing uses to be allowed so as not to work a hardship upon the applicant. The City Council shall conduct such hearing in accordance with the City of Reynolds Zoning Policy and procedure contained in this section.
Sec. 8.9. - Conditional uses.
a.
Conditional Uses, Permits. Some of the zoning district established herein may permit certain uses which are allowable therein provided they meet specified conditions, as set forth therein and elsewhere. No such use shall be permitted until a Conditional Use Permit has been issued authorizing such use. The procedures for granting such permit shall be the same as for amendments to the Zoning Ordinance or Zoning Map.
b.
Review of Applications for Conditional Use. Those conditions specified in the Zoning District regulations shall be considered to be the minimum standards which must be met before the conditional use application may be considered by the Mayor and Council. In deciding upon whether or not a conditional use which meets the minimum standards promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the County [City], the Mayor and Council shall utilize the applicable Standards of Review of section 8.7 of this Ordinance.
c.
Issuance of Permit. If the Mayor and Council, after applying the evidence to the Standards of Review have been convinced that the allowance of the Conditional Use would promote the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the City, a Conditional Use Permit may be allowed, subject to those Provisions, if any, that may be imposed.
d.
Terms of Conditional Use Permits. Due to the sensitive nature of the uses regulated by the Conditional Use Permit procedures, all Conditional Use Permits shall expire by operation of law one (1) year from issuance if:
1.
in instances where no structure is to be erected, the site has not been utilized for the conditional use within one (1) year; or
2.
in those instances in which a building or structure is to be erected, an application for building permit has not been submitted within one (1) year.
Sec. 8.10. - Provisional zoning.
a.
In deciding upon any application for zoning map amendment, the Mayor and Council may, on their own motion or upon the suggestion of the applicant, grant the application subject to certain provisions necessary to promote and protect the health, safety, moral and general welfare of the City. Such provisions shall be imposed for the benefit of the community to lessen any negative effects that the zoning map amendment may cause.
b.
The Mayor and Council may grant any zoning map amendment and include provisions as follows:
1.
such provisions as are deemed necessary to protect neighbors and lessen any negative effects of the zoning change;
2.
that the rezoning is provisional upon the condition that the applicant or any successor in title may construct only those uses and only in such a manner as is depicted upon any site plan submitted and approved with the application.
c.
Prior to a final vote being taken upon any application for zoning map amendment in which provisions shall be imposed, such provisions will be announced at the hearing and the applicant shall be afforded an opportunity to present its position on such provision requirements. If the applicant finds such proposed provisional requirements to be unacceptable, it may, at [that] time, withdraw its application for zoning map amendment; such withdrawal shall not enable such application [applicant] to refile for a zoning map amendment contrary to City or State law.
d.
If the Mayor and Council adopt a zoning map amendment which contains provisions requirements, such requirements shall become a part of this Ordinance and the official zoning map. Such property shall thereafter carry the suffix "-P" to indicate that such property has been provisionally zoned. Such provisions shall be binding upon all owners of the property until removed or modified by the Mayor and Council. The Zoning Administrator shall so indicate in the records of the zoning actions the existence of the provisional requirements. If the Zoning Administrator deems it appropriate and feasible, the suffix "-P" shall be affixed to the zoning map for the appropriate property.
e.
A provisional requirement may be imposed upon either permitted and/or conditional uses in any zoning district. In ruling on such provisional requirements, the Mayor and Council shall utilize the applicable Standards of Review.
f.
In those instances where a rezoning is granted which is provisional upon the submitted site plan, such property shall revert to its former zoning classification by operation of law if a building permit for such development has not been applied for within one (1) year, provided that the Mayor and Council, at a zoning hearing, may extend this period for good cause shown by the property owner. The Zoning Administrator may grant "minor" changes to such site plans, provided:
1.
the developer can show a hardship requiring such modifications; and
2.
the Zoning Administrator determined that the changes so requested do not materially affect the basic design nor negate any special features which were designed to facilitate traffic or preserve neighborhood character.
g.
It shall be the duty of Zoning Administrator to periodically review such provisional rezoning and to report to the Mayor and Council those rezoning actions which have reverted by operation of law.
Sec. 8.11. - Amendments to provisions.
Procedures for removing any provisional requirements shall be the same as any other zoning amendment.
ARTICLE 9. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 9.1. - Penalties for violation.
a.
It is unlawful to violate the provisions of this Ordinance or to fail to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances, special exceptions, provisions, or conditional uses). Any person who violates this Ordinance or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined in accordance with the Code of Ordinances of the City of Reynolds and shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
b.
The owner or tenants of any building, structure, premises, or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
c.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful civil, criminal, quasi civil or quasi criminal action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
Sec. 9.2. - Remedies.
If any building or structure is constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or if any building, structure or land is used in violation of this Ordinance, the Mayor and Council, the Building Inspector, the Zoning Administrator or any adjacent property owner who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute an injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action in proceeding to stop the violation in the case of such building, structure or land use.
ARTICLE 10. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 10.1. - Severability clause.
Should any section or provision of this Ordinance be declared by the Courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the Ordinance as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
Sec. 10.2. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All Resolutions and Ordinances including the Zoning Resolution of the City of Reynolds of December 10, 1979, as amended, or parts of other Ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance, are hereby superseded to the extent necessary to give this Ordinance full force and effect.
Sec. 10.3. - Short title.
This Ordinance may be cited as the "Reynolds Zoning Ordinance."
Sec. 10.4. - Previous conditions.
All Conditions previously imposed on the various properties as part of a prior zoning action of the Mayor and Council are hereby carried forward. Similarly, all conditional uses previously approved are hereby carried forward.
ARTICLE 11. - PROCEDURES FOR SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Recording of maps and plats, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67 et seq.; subdivisions abutting state highways, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-150 et seq.; Georgia Land Sales Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 11-1. - Platting authority.
The city shall be the official platting authority. As the official platting authority, it hereby delegates to the Zoning Administrator the power and authority to approve or deny all preliminary and final plats in accordance with all the regulations of the city.
Sec. 11-2. - Pre-application review.
Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land within the jurisdiction of the city is proposed, the subdivider should consult early and informally with the Zoning Administrator for advice and assistance. The subdivider may submit sketch plans, data showing existing conditions within the site and its vicinity, and the proposed layout and development of the subdivision. The Zoning Administrator shall return within thirty (30) days the submitted sketch plans to the subdivider and shall inform the subdivider where the plans do not comply with the regulations set forth in this resolution. No fee shall be charged for the pre-application review and no formal application shall be required.
Sec. 11-3. - Procedure for preliminary plat approval.
[1]
Application for preliminary plat approval. Following the pre-application review of a proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall submit to the Zoning Administrator the following:
(a)
A letter requesting review and approval of a preliminary plat;
(b)
A minimum of seven (7) copies of the preliminary plat and other documents as specified in section 11-4; and
(c)
A preliminary plat filing fee.
[2]
Review of a preliminary plat. The Zoning Administrator shall check the plat for conformance to the rules and regulations of this resolution.
(a)
Preliminary approval following the review of the preliminary plat and other related material. The Zoning Administrator may express preliminary approval noting the conditions of such approval on a minimum of seven (7) copies of the preliminary plat with one (1) copy being returned to the subdivider, one copy to the city engineer, one copy to the Taylor County Health Department, one copy to the Water and Sewage Authority, and one copy to be added to the records of the city. Approval of a preliminary plat does not constitute approval of a final plat. It indicates only approval of the layout as a guide to the preparation of the final plat.
(b)
Expiration time. Preliminary approval shall expire and be of no further effect twelve (12) months from the date of the preliminary approval unless the time is extended by the Zoning Administrator.
(c)
Disapproval. Following the review of the preliminary plat and other related material, the Zoning Administrator may find reasons detrimental to the public safety, health, and general welfare, or in conflict with adopted plans to the city which require the disapproval shall be made on two (2) copies of the preliminary plat with one (1) copy being returned to the subdivider and [the subdivider] may re-apply for preliminary plat approval in accordance with Section 11-3[1] above.
Sec. 11-4. - Preliminary plat specifications.
[1]
Scale. The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale not smaller than two hundred (200) feet to one (1) inch.
[2]
Sheet size. Sheet size shall not be greater than eighteen (18) inches by twenty-four (24) inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on a sheet of this size, it may be shown on more than one (1) sheet with an index map on a separate sheet at a reduced scale.
[3]
Ground elevations. The preliminary plat shall show ground elevations, and contour lines as shown on the Taylor County Topographical Maps.
[4]
Information to be provided on preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
(a)
Name and address of owner of record and of subdivider;
(b)
Proposed name of subdivision;
(c)
North point, graphic scale, and date;
(d)
Vicinity map showing location and acreage of the subdivision;
(e)
Boundary lines of tract;
(f)
Names of owners of record of adjoining land with its approximate acreage;
(g)
Existing streets, utilities, and easements on and adjacent to the tract, including the size and width of each;
(h)
Proposed layout including streets, alleys, and easements with both approximate dimensions and proposed street names; lot lines with approximate land to be reserved or dedicated for public uses; and any land to be used for purposes other than single-family dwellings;
(i)
Block letters and lot numbers or section designation and lot numbers;
(j)
Provisions for drainage, as required by the city engineer;
(k)
Notation as to whether water supply service and sewage service are provided publicly or privately;
(l)
Minimum building front yard setback lines;
(m)
Location of streams, lakes, and swamps and land within the elevation of the regulatory flood as required in Chapter 16 of the Code (Flood Damage Prevention);
(n)
Existing zoning district classification of the proposed subdivision and of adjoining properties; and
(o)
Inscription stating "NOT FOR FINAL RECORDING."
[5]
Preliminary plat approval of single-family attached developments. The Zoning Administrator will require that all attached dwelling units shall conform to requirements of Section 11-4[1] through [4] and require that the following information be provided:
(a)
Number of units.
(b)
Minimum and maximum lot width.
(c)
Proposed building setbacks.
(d)
Proposed parking layout.
The applicant shall make application for plat approval, appear before and comply with all requirements of the City of Reynolds.
[6]
Approval from fire department. A signed certification of approval from the Taylor County Fire Coordinator shall be placed on preliminary plat.
[7]
Approval from the city engineer. A signed certification of approval for layouts only by the county engineer shall be placed on the preliminary plat as follows:
"This preliminary approval is for layout only. (City of Reynolds) does not, by this approval, accept the dedication, if any, of drainage easements and assumes no responsibility for their maintenance.
EXPAND
Date: _____
_____
City Engineer
  [8]
Approval from the health department. A signed certification of approval of the Taylor County Health Department shall be placed on the preliminary plat.
[9]
Preliminary plat exemptions. The Zoning Administrator may not require a preliminary plat under the following conditions:
(a)
When the subdivision includes less that three (3) lots.
(b)
Minor resubdivision of land.
(c)
Combining of previously platted lots.
(d)
Loan plats where the lot has been previously recorded.
[10]
Certificate of preliminary approval. A certificate of approval of the preliminary plat by the city shall be inscribed on the plat as follows:
"In that all the requirements of Preliminary Approval have been fulfilled, this subdivision plat was given Preliminary Approval by the City of Reynolds on ___________, 20___.
EXPAND
Date: _____
_____
Zoning Administrator
  Sec. 11-5. - Procedure for final plat approval.
[1]
Application for final plat approval. After the preliminary plat of proposed land subdivision has been given preliminary approval by the Zoning Administrator, the subdivider may, within one (1) year or within such additional time as may be granted by the Zoning Administrator, submit to the Zoning Administrator the following:
(a)
An application requesting review and approval of the final plat;
(b)
Nine (9) printed copies of the final plat with signed certificates and other documents as specified in Section 11-6; and
(c)
A final plat filling fee.
[2]
Review of the final plat. The Zoning administrator shall check the plat for conformance with the tentatively approved preliminary plat, with all applicable conditions, and with regulations of this resolution. The Zoning Administrator may find the final plat in conflict with the tentatively approved preliminary plat or with this resolution requiring the disapproval of the final plat. A statement of the reasons for disapproval shall be given to the applicant and one (1) copy of such reasons shall be added to the records of the city. No certificate of approval will be given. The final plat may be resubmitted as a new application for final plat approval after the corrections noted by the Zoning Administrator are made.
Sec. 11-6. - Final plat specifications.
[1]
Conformance with the preliminary plat. The final plat shall conform to the conditions of the tentatively approved preliminary plat.
[2]
Original tracing specifications. The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn on any acceptable tracing material and shall comply with all requirements of the "Georgia Plat Act," Section [1](a). The scale shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) feet to the inch and a sheet size not less than eight and one-half inches (8½) by eleven (11) inches nor greater than seventeen (17) inches by twenty-two (22) inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one (1) sheet of this size, it may be shown on more than one (1) sheet with an index map at a reduced scale.
[3]
Additional specifications. The final plat shall contain the following information:
(a)
North point, graphic scale, and date;
(b)
Tax map designation;
(c)
names of owners of record of adjoining land;
(d)
Location of streams, lakes, swamps, and land within the elevation of the regulatory flood required in Chapter 16 of the Code (Flood Damage Prevention);
(e)
Tract boundary lines, municipal or county lines when included within the subdivision, right-of-way lines, lines of streets easements, property lines of residential lots and other sites with sufficient data to determine readily and to reproduce on the ground location, bearing, and length of every street line, lot line, but not be limited to the length of an arc; internal angles and bearings of the tangent distances for the center line of curved streets. All dimensions shall be given to the nearest one hundredth ( 1/100 ) of a foot and all angles shall be given to the nearest minute;
(f)
Exact boundary lines of the tract, determined by a field survey, giving distances to the nearest minute, shall be balanced and closed with an apparent error of closure not to exceed one (1) in ten thousand (10,000);
(g)
Widths and names of all streets and alleys within the new subdivision shall be shown on the plat;
(h)
Land-lot and land-district numbers shall be shown;
(i)
Lots shall be numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically or section labeled appropriately;
(j)
Each lot shall have a house number which has been designated by the city;
(k)
Location, dimensions, and purposes of any easements and any areas to be reserved or dedicated for the public use shall be shown on plat;
(l)
Accurate location, material, and description of monuments and markers shall be described on plat; and
(m)
Minimum building front yard setback lines shall be shown.
[4]
Final plat approval of single-family attached. The Zoning Administrator will require that all provisions of the preliminary plat and subsequent commission approval be obtained. All final plats shall conform to Section 11-6[1] through [3] and shall reflect "As-Built Conditions."
[5]
A surveyor's certification. A signed certification by a registered land surveyor certifying to the accuracy of the survey and the plat shall be placed on the final plat as follows:
"The field data upon which this map or plat is based has closure precision of one foot in _______ and angular error of -per angle point, and was adjusted using the _______ rule. This map or plat has been calculated for closure and is found to be accurate within one (1) foot in _____ feet. The linear and angular measurements shown on this plat were obtained by using a ________ and ___________.
EXPAND
By: _____ "
Georgia Registered Land Surveyor Number
  [6]
An owner's certification. A signed certification of ownership shall be placed on the final plat as follows:
"Owner Certification:
State of Georgia, City of Reynolds
The undersigned certifies that he is the owner of the land shown on this plat and acknowledges this plat and allotment to be his free act and deed and dedicated to public use forever all areas shown or indicated on this plat as streets, alleys, easements, or parks.
EXPAND
_____
Date
_____ "
Owner's Signature
  When no dedication of land is made, the following shall be placed on the plat.
"The undersigned hereby certifies that he is the owner of the land shown on this plat and that he acknowledges this plat and allotment to be his free act and deed.
EXPAND
_____
Date
_____ "
Owner's Signature
  [7]
Fire department certification. A signed certification of the fire department shall be placed on the final plat as follows:
(a)
Approved by the Taylor County Fire Coordinator
EXPAND
_____
Date
_____ "
Fire Coordinator
  (b)
Approval subject to installation of proper water mains and fire hydrants
EXPAND
Taylor County Fire Department
_____
Date
_____ "
Owner's Signature
  [8]
Health department certification. A signed certification of the Taylor County Health Department shall be placed on the final plat as follows:
(a)
Approval of this plat by the department of health is solely for the purpose of permitting it to be recorded in the Taylor County Superior Court. Said approval does not imply nor is it intended to grant permission to any person to construct and building or to install a sewage disposal system or water supply system on property covered by this plat.
EXPAND
Approved for Recording Purposes Only Taylor County Health Department
_____
Date
_____ "
By
  (b)
Health department approval relates to general subdivision lot layout only. Individual approval required for each lot prior to construction.
(c)
Restricted to public sewers and public water supply.
(d)
Approved by the Taylor County Department of Health
EXPAND
_____
Date
_____ "
By
  The blanks on the certification statement of Taylor County Health Department shall be completed by the director of environmental health; or his representative, so as to indicate whether approval is based upon the use of individual sewage systems, individual water supplies, a community sewage system, a community water supply or a combination thereof.
[9]
A certificate of approval by the city engineer. A signed certification of the city engineer shall be placed on the final plat as follows:
"I certify that the final plat layout meets the platting requirements of the City of Reynolds Engineering Department. The City of Reynolds does not, by this approval, accept the dedication, if any, of drainage and easements and assumes no responsibility for their maintenance.
EXPAND
_____
Date
_____ "
City Engineer
  [10]
Certification of final approval by the city. Certification of final approval by the Zoning Administrator shall be placed on the final plat only after every item in Sections 11-6 and 11-7 above have been compiled with and shall state the following:
"I certify that all the requirements for the Final Approval of this Plat have been fulfilled in accordance with the Resolutions of the City of Reynolds.
EXPAND
_____
Date
_____ "
Zoning Administrator
  Sec. 11-7. - Recording of final plat.
Upon the approval of the final plat by the Zoning Administrator, the owner, or his agent, shall have the final plat recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the City prior to conveyance of any lot in the subdivision.
Sec. 11-8. - Procedure for appeals.
Appeals may be taken by an aggrieved any officer, department, board, or bureau of the City of Reynolds affected by any decision of the Zoning Administrator or the commission. Such appeals shall be allowed as provided by the following rules:
(1)
Any person, firm or cooperation aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Administrator in administering this resolution may file in writing his appeal with the full city council within thirty (30) days of the decision. The city may, in conformity with the provisions of this resolution, reverse, or affirm wholly or in part, or may modify the order, requirements, decisions, or determination of the Zoning Administrator at the next regular meeting; and
(2)
Any person, firm or cooperation aggrieved by a decision of the commission shall have the right of certiorari as provided by law.
Sec. 11-9. - General design requirements.
[1]
Suitability of land. Land subject to flooding, improper drainage, or erosion, or which is for topographical, geographical, or other reasons unsuitable for residential use shall not be platted for residential use nor for any other uses that will continue to increase the danger to health, safety, or property destruction.
[2]
Name of subdivision. The name of the subdivision must have the approval of the Zoning Administrator. The name shall not duplicate or closely approximate the name of an existing subdivision.
[3]
Access. Access to every subdivision shall be provided over a public street(s) as may be required by the Zoning Administrator.
[4]
Through traffic. Minor streets shall be so designated that their use by through of traffic will be discouraged.
Sec. 11-10. - General requirements for streets and other rights-of-way.
[1]
Continuation of existing streets. Existing streets shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width as set forth in section 11-11.
[2]
Connections with future subdivisions. Streets shall be reserved at strategic locations to provide for access to adjoining properties which may be subdivided in the future. Each street connection shall intersect property lines at a ninety degree (90°) angle. The Zoning Administrator shall determine if a temporary turnaround is needed, with said turnaround conforming to the requirements of a permanent cul-de-sac.
[3]
Street names. Street names shall require the approval of the Zoning Administrator. Streets that are obviously in alignment with streets already in existence and already named shall be given the name of the existing street. Names of new streets shall not be duplicate or closely approximate those of existing streets.
[4]
Street jogs. Street jogs with center line offsets of less than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet shall not be permitted.
[5]
Cul-de-sac. Cul-de-sac, or dead-end streets shall not be greater in length than eight hundred (800) feet. They shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having property line radius of at least fifty (50) feet.
[6]
Development along major street, limited access highway, or railroad right-of-way. Where subdivision abuts or contains and expressway, freeway, arterial or collector street, or a railroad right-of-way, the city may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way wither as a marginal access street, or at a distance suitable for an appropriate use of intervening land, with a nonaccess reservation suitably platted. Due regard should be given to requirements for approach grades and future grade separations in determining distances. Lots shall have no access to expressways, freeways, or arterial streets, but only to accessible streets in which case the city may require double frontage lots.
[7]
Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations, and, where the city finds it will be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
[8]
Alleys. The requirements for providing alleys within a subdivision are as follows:
(1)
Alleys shall be provided in multi-family, commercial and industrial districts, except where other definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street parking, loading, and unloading, consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed;
(2)
Alleys shall not be provided in single-family and two-family residential developments unless the subdivider provides evidence satisfactory to the city of the need for alleys;
(3)
Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided, but, where necessary, corners shall provide sufficient radius to permit safe vehicular movements; and
(4)
Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end, as determined by the commission.
[9]
Reserve strips and easements.
(a)
Reserve strips controlling the access to streets shall be prohibited except where this control is definitely placed in the hands of the city under conditions approved by the city. The city may control access to expressways, freeways, arterial and collector streets by requiring all lots to face and have access to only minor streets.
(b)
Easements of the required width located along the side or rear lot lines shall be provided, as is necessary for utility lines and underground mains and gables [cables]. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm or water drainage right-of-way of adequate width. Parallel streets may be required by the city in connection therewith.
Sec. 11-11. - Right-of-way width requirements.
The minimum street right-of-way widths shall be as follows:
EXPAND
[1] Freeways and expressways 150 feet
[2] Arterial streets 100 feet
[3] Collector Streets 90 feet
[4] Minor streets without curb and gutter 60 feet
[5] Minor streets with curb and gutter 55 feet
[6] Alleys 20 feet
  Sec. 11-12. - Street design requirements.
[1]
Street intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible with no street intersection being at any angle of less than seventy-five (75) degrees.
[2]
Right-of-way radius. The street right-of-way radius at street intersections shall be at least 20 feet. Where the angle of street intersections is less than ninety (90) degrees, the city may require a longer radius.
[3]
Additional width on existing streets. Subdivisions that adjoin existing streets shall dedicate additional right-of-way if needed to meet the minimum street width requirements set forth in Section 11-11.
[4]
The entire right-of-way shall be provided where any part of the subdivision is on both sides of the existing streets.
[5]
When the subdivision is located on one side of an existing street, one-half (½) of the required right-of-way, measured from the center line of the existing roadway, shall be provided.
Sec. 11-13. - Design standards for blocks and lots.
[1]
Design lengths and widths. Block lengths and widths shall be determined based on the following requirements:
[2][a]
Blocks shall not be greater than twelve hundred (1,200) feet nor less than four hundred feet in length.
[3][b]
Blocks shall be wide enough to provide two tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where abutting upon major streets, limited access highways, or railroads or where other situations make this requirement impracticable, in which case the city may approve a single tier of lots of minimum depth.
[4][2]
Lot sizes. Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements set forth in the zoning districts in which the land to be subdivided is located. Residential corner lots shall have adequate width to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both abutting streets.
[5][3]
Building lines. A building line meeting the front and side yard setback requirements of the zoning district in which the subdivision is located shall be established on all lots.
[6][4]
Lots Abutting public streets. Each lot shall abut upon a dedicated public street.
[7][5]
Double Frontage Lots. Double frontage lots should be avoided except Where essential to provide separations of residential development From traffic arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten (10) feet and across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other disadvantageous use.
Sec. 11-14. - Provision of public land.
(1)
Dedication or Reservation for Public Use. Where features of the comprehensive plan, such as school sites, parks, playgrounds, and other public Spaces are located in whole or in part in a proposed subdivision, or when these features have not been anticipated by the comprehensive plan, but are considered essential by the City, such features shall be dedicated or reserved by the subdivider. Provided, however, that no more than 10 percent of the total area of the proposed subdivision, exclusive of street rights-of-way, shall be required for dedication or reservation to fulfill the requirements of this section.
(2)
Land not Required or Suited for Public Use. Whenever a plat proposes the reservation of land for, or the dedication of land to, public use, and the City finds that such land is not suitable for public use, the City may either refuse to approve said plat or it may require the rearrangement of lots to include such land. The City shall waive the reservation or dedication provisions whenever the public body directly responsible for land acquisition executes a written release, stating that such planned feature is not required or is not to be acquired. In the absence of such a waiver, the City shall disapprove plats when planned features, as specified by the comprehensive plan or deemed essential by the City, are not incorporated into the plat.
(3)
Dedication [of Deed]. The subdivider may deed restrictively the land to be used for a specified public use to the City by submitting, with the final plat and documents, a deed to the property involved, clear of all liens and encumbrances, and transferable to the division of the county government which will have ultimate control over the use of such property, provided that governing body is not obligated to accept.
(4)
[Land or Area] Reservations. In the event the subdivider feels that a donation through dedication would work an unusual hardship on him, he may elect to reserve the area in question. Whenever the land so reserved is not purchased, acquired, optioned, or condemned by the appropriate public agency within a three-year period from the date of recording the subdivision or at the time that at least 50 percent of the available lots are built on and occupied, the subdivider may claim the original reservation and cause it to be subdivided in a manner suitable to the subdivider subject to the provisions of this Resolution.
DIVISION 2. - REQUIRED SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 11-15. - Monuments.
The subdivider shall place permanent reference monuments in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
Right-of-Way Monuments. Iron pins shall be embedded at least two (2) feet into the ground on street right-of-way lines at street intersections and at each point where the right-of-way line changes direction. Such iron pins shall be at least five-eighths (⅝) of one inch in diameter. They shall be spaced so as to be within sight of each other. The top surface of each marker shall be approximately level with the ground surface.
(2)
Property Line Monuments. Iron pins shall be embedded at least two (2) feet into the ground at each lot corner, at each point where the property line changes direction, and no more than 1,400 feet apart in any straight line. Where property lines follow rivers or streams the meander lines shall be established and monumented not less than twenty (20) feet back from the bank of such river or stream, except that when such corners or points fall with a street, or proposed future street, the monuments shall be placed on the right-of-way line of the street. Such iron pins shall be at least five-eighths (⅝) of one inch in diameter. The top surface of such iron pins shall be approximately level with the ground surface.
(3)
Lot Lines Extending into Rivers and Streams. The lines of lots that extend into rivers or streams shall be monumented in the field by iron pins not less than two (2) feet long and five-eighths (⅝) of one inch in diameter. Such iron pins shall be placed at the point of intersection of the lot line with a meander line established not less than twenty (20) feet back from the bank of the river or stream.
Sec. 11-16. - Special classification of streets for construction.
All streets shall be classified for construction purposes only as follows: Any subdivision of lands in Taylor County divided into ten (10) acre lots and having more than three (3) lots, shall have paved streets as set forth in [these] Regulations.
(1)
Class I Street. A Class I Street shall be paved, curbed, and guttered in accordance with the specifications required herein, and shall be required in zoning district AR, but may be so located if the subdivider so desires. Right-of-way width requirements shall be in accordance with Section 11.11 herein.
(2)
Class II Street. A Class II Street shall be paved in accordance with the specifications required herein, but no curbs and gutters shall be required. A Class II Street shall be required as a minimum for all streets in districts R1 and AR and for freeways, expressways, arterial streets, and collector streets in an AR District. Minor residential streets, cul-de-sacs, marginal access streets, and alleys of Class II construction are not required in an AR District, but may be located in an AR District if the subdivider so desires. Right-of-way width requirements for a Class II Street shall be as required in Section 11.16 of this Resolution.
(3)
Class III Street. A Class III street shall be paved in accordance with the specifications required herein. The minimum base shall conform to same specifications as Class II, Section 11.16(2). Class III Streets shall be required as a minimum in an AR District for all streets except for freeways, expressways, arterial streets, and collector streets which shall be Class II streets as required in Section 11.16(2). A Class III street shall be permitted only in an AR District and shall have minimum right-of-way widths as required in Section 11.11 of this Resolution.
Sec. 11.17. - Additional street design requirements.
(1)
Grades, Horizontal, Curves, Tangents, and Sight Distances. The following street design requirements shall be adhered to in addition to other requirements stated herein:
EXPAND
Expressways,
Freeways,
Arterial Streets Collector
Streets Other Streets
(a) Maximum Street Grades 6% 8% 12%
(b) Minimum Radii of Center Line Curvature 800' 500' 100'
(c) Minimum Length of Tangent Between Reverse Curves 300' 200' 100'
(d) Minimum Stopping Sight Distance (as defined by AASHTO) 350' 250' 200'
  (2)
Vertical Curves. All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical Curves of sufficient length to achieve the minimum stopping sight distance as shown in 11.17(1).
Sec. 11.18. - Basic construction requirements for all classes of streets.
PAVING REQUIREMENTS.
(1)
Clearing and Grubbing Right-of-Way. This work shall consist of removing and disposing of all vegetation and debris within the right-of-way to a depth of at least one (1) foot below finished subgrade. Topsoil shall be stripped and stock piled for later use. All stump holes shall be backfilled and compacted with suitable material, Class I or II soil.
(2)
Subgrade. This work shall consist of placing, mixing, compacting and shaping the top six (6) inches of soil. This work also includes subgrade stabilization.
(a)
Compaction. The entire surface shall be plowed, harrowed and mixed to a depth of at least 6". After the material has been thoroughly mixed, the subgrade shall be compacted at ninety-five (95) percent of the maximum density. Suitable rollers are required.
Compaction tests shall be made by a certified engineer or from a certified laboratory. Tests are to be made along the road bed at five hundred (500) foot intervals and at every two (2) feet of fill. Any areas that do not meet with the specified compaction, shall be excavated and replaced with suitable material.
Test results shall be submitted to the Taylor County Building Inspector as conducted. All costs for Compaction tests shall be incurred by the developer.
(b)
Subgrade material. All streets shall consist of Class I or II soil. If such material is not available on site, it shall be furnished by the developer.
(3)
Storm Drainage. An adequate drainage system based on a twenty-five (25) year rainfall frequency for cross drains and ten (10) year rainfall frequency for longitudinal drainage systems shall be provided. Pipe material shall be as follows:
Reinforced Concrete Pipe
Bituminous Coated Corregated Metal Pipe
High Density Polyethylene Pipe
(4)
Installation of Utilities. After grading is completed and approved and before any base is applied, all of the underground utilities, including water mains, sewer mains, gas mains, and all service connections related thereto, shall be installed completely and approved throughout the length of the street and across the flat section. All driveways for houses to be built by the subdivider shall be cut and drained. Where the utility mains are off the pavement, the subdivider may elect to omit the installation of service connections providing that at such time as these service connections are needed, they shall be jacked across the street without breaking or weakening the existing pavement.
(5)
Slopes and Shoulder Improvements. The minimum ratio for all fill or cut slopes shall be two (2) to one (1) and the minimum width for all shoulders from back edge of the curb, if installed, shall be eight (8) feet. All shoulders shall slope one-half (½) inch to the foot. (See Typical Section, Figure 1). When all construction is completed, all slopes and shoulders shall be cleared of all rubbish and shall have a stand of grass to prevent erosion, either by sprigging or seeding.
Sec. 11.19. - Roadway surfacing and paving.
The following minimum requirements shall be adhered to for the surfacing and paving of streets and roads:
(1)
Pavement Base. The pavement bases of Class I and Class II Streets, not including the surface courses, shall be one of the following types and shall be of the following minimum thickness as designated for each street classification:
EXPAND
Other Streets Collector
Streets Expressways,
Freeways,
Arterial Streets
Graded Aggregate Base 6" 7" 8"
Soil Cement Base 6" 7" 8"
  (2)
Thickness Pavement. The pavement of Class I and Class II Streets shall be one of the following types and shall be designated for each street classification:
EXPAND
Other Streets Collector
Streets Expressways,
Freeways,
Arterial Streets
Portland Cement Concrete 6" 6" 8"
Asphaltic Plant Mixed Surface 2" 3" 3½"
Surface Treatment Triple
  (3)
Minimum Pavement Width. All Class I and Class II minor residential streets shall have a minimum pavement width of twenty-eight (28) feet from back of curb to back of curb, or twenty-four (24) feet from edge of pavement to edge of pavement if no curb and gutters are installed. All other street width pavements shall be determined by the Commission and the Board of Commissioners as required.
(4)
Pavement Breaks for Utility Connections. No paved streets shall be open cut to install any utility or drainage facility.
(5)
Curbs and Gutters. Either the regular six (6) inch or four (4) inch rollover concrete curbs and gutters with a minimum overall width of 24 inches shall be constructed on all Class I Streets. Cement concrete valley gutter shall be permitted across minor residential streets at street intersections only when no storm sewers are available as determined by the Zoning Administrator. Valley gutters shall be at least six (6) feet in width. Whenever driveway openings are provided for lots abutting the street, the driveway shall be six (6) inches thick and a minimum of ten (10) feet in width at the sidewalk or at the street right-of-way line. The driveway shall have a three (3) foot radius at the curb line. Where ditches are used for drainage, culverts and driveway providing access to each lot shall be installed. Culverts thus installed shall be sufficient for adequate drainage and shall be installed so as to be resistant to damage from future construction or maintenance activities.
(6)
Class III Streets. Class III streets shall be constructed with a minimum six (6) inch Graded Aggregate Base or 6: Soil Cement compacted, to 100 percent, with subgrade compacted to 95 percent. The surface of the roadway shall be triple surface treatment or 2" plant mix asphalt. Minimum width of a Class III street shall be twenty two (22) feet, with a minimum six (6) foot shoulder.
Sec. 11.20. - Installation of utilities.
(1)
Water. Water mains for both domestic use and fire protection shall be properly connected with the public water system or with an alternate water supply approved by the Taylor County Health Department. The lines shall be constructed in such a manner as to serve adequately all lots shown on the subdivision plat. The lines shall be installed in conformance with the technical standards as established by the Board of Commissioners, or other local governments.
(2)
Sewer. A publicly connected sanitary sewer system shall be installed where said system is available from a public agency subject to regulation by the City government, or as the result of a contract between government and another public agency or body. Where lots cannot be economically connected with a sewerage system, they must contain adequate area for the installation of septic tank and disposal fields approved by the Taylor County Health Department. All sewer facilities shall be installed in accordance with the standards of the Department of Public Health of the State of Georgia and the City of Reynolds.
(3)
Gas. When gas mains are connected with the gas distribution system the lines shall be installed in such a manner as to serve adequately all lots shown on the subdivision plats. The gas lines shall be constructed in conformance with the technical Standards established by the local governments.
Sec. 11.21. - Sidewalks and street signs.
(1)
Sidewalk Dimensions. Unless otherwise specified, all sidewalks shall be four (4) inches thick with a minimum width of four (4) feet. A twenty-four (24) inch grass planting strip shall be provided between the back of the curb and the sidewalk. For Class II Streets, the sidewalk shall be located on the right-of-way line side of the drainage ditch located parallel to the street. All sidewalks shall slope one-half (½) inch to the foot toward the curb.
(2)
Street Signs Required. All new or existing roads, public or private, which are included in a subdivision shall be furnished and installed with street name signs as specified in Section 11.21(3). All necessary traffic signs (slow, stop, caution, school bus stop, etc.) will be furnished and installed as proper locations. Materials for signs will be approved by the City and all expenses incurred will be borne by the Developer at no cost to the City.
(3)
Location of Street Identification Signs. All streets shall be designated by name on a metal street sign post approved by the City of Reynolds with such metal post having nameplates of metal set one above the other with a clearance of seven (7) feet. The post shall be so located as to be visible for both pedestrian and vehicular traffic. At cross-street intersections, two street signposts shall be located diagonally across the intersection from each other. Only one street signpost shall be required at T sections.
Sec. 11.22. - Administrative procedures.
The administrative procedures for installing the subdivision improvements required herein shall be as follows:
(1)
Inspections and Approval by the Board of Commissioners. During the construction and installation of the required public improvements, the Zoning Administrator, or agent shall from time to time make field inspections of said work as predetermined and agreed upon by the Zoning Administrator, or agent, and the subdivider. After completion of all the construction and installation of the required public improvements and if the said work has met the specifications as described herein, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator enforcement officer shall notify the subdivider in writing of the approval of said work.
(2)
Official Acceptance by the City of Reynolds. The City shall officially accept the completed work on the construction and install public improvements one (1) year from the date of the written acceptance by the Zoning Administrator.
(3)
Maintenance of Completed Work. The subdivider shall maintain his completed work until the official acceptance by the City of Reynolds as described in Section 11.22(2) above. The subdivider shall be required to sign a maintenance bond agreement equaling 20 percent of the construction cost with the Board of Commissioners. During the maintenance period, the Zoning Administrator shall make final inspection and notify the subdivider and the bonding company of the cost of making necessary corrections and the cost of maintenance. These costs shall be deducted from the maintenance funds, and the subdivider charged with any costs above the amount of maintenance funds. If the work is acceptable at this time, the remainder of the maintenance funds shall be released to the subdivider.
(4)
Cost of Improvements.
(a)
Subdividers' Responsibility. The subdivider shall incur the cost of construction and installation of all required public improvements based on the following:
(1)
Streets - Incur the cost for the construction of streets up to twenty-eight (28) feet in pavement width from back of curb, to back of curb, or twenty-four (24) feet in pavement width from edge of pavement to edge of pavement if no curbs and gutters are installed.
(2)
Water and Sewer Systems - Incur the cost for the installation of all water and sewer systems which are required to serve the new subdivision and tie in with existing water and sewer system, based on the specifications set forth herein.
(3)
Sidewalks - Entire cost.
(4)
Monuments - Entire cost.
(5)
Traffic Control and Street Signs - Entire cost.
(b)
City of Reynolds's Responsibility. The City shall partially participate in sharing the cost of construction and installation of required public improvements for the following conditions:
(1)
Streets - Incur cost for any additional required pavement which is in excess of twenty-eight (28) feet for streets without curbs and gutters and in excess of twenty-four (24) feet for streets without curbs and gutters, and any additional grading and paving related thereto. (Except Accel/Decel Lanes, Turn Lanes, etc.).
(2)
Water and Sewer System - Incur cost for any difference in the cost of the laying of oversized pipe and outfall systems which are needed in excess of the required water and sewer facilities needed to exclusively serve the new subdivision as determined by the City.
(c)
Property Owner's Responsibility. Whenever the City is petitioned in writing by the property owners to upgrade a Class II Street to a Class I Street, a Class III Street to a Class II Street, or a Class III Street to a Class I Street, the property owners shall then incur the entire cost for said improvements based on the footage along the property line of each lot abutting the street which is being improved.
(d)
Estimated Costs for Construction and Installation. The current prices in effect at the time of submission of plans shall be used in determining the total estimated cost for construction and installation or required public improvements in new subdivisions.
Sec. 11.22[23]. - When construction may begin.
Construction and installation of any required public improvement as described herein shall not begin until the preliminary plat has been approved and Engineering construction plans and specifications as outlined herein have been submitted to and approved by the Engineer as being in conformity with these regulations. The Engineer shall be sent a copy of such preliminary plat by the developer or his authorized representative with the applicable approvals certified thereon. A Preconstruction Conference shall be held by City Engineer prior to construction with the subdivider or his representative in attendance.
Sec. 11.23[24]. - Construction plans to be filed with City Engineer's office.
Four (4) copies of all plans for streets, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, sidewalks, etc., and other required showing the proposed plans, profiles and applicable cross sections of each shall be submitted to and approved by the Engineer's Office as being in conformity with these regulations prior to commencing construction of any new system. The plans shall be prepared from an actual engineering field or photogrammetric survey, and show along with all proposed new improvements all existing applicable improvements. The plans shall be prepared on standard plan and profile sheets and shall show the following:
(a)
Plans.
(1)
Indicate direction of North.
(2)
Indicate right-of-way line, center line, departing lot lines, lot numbers, subdivision limits and limits of construction.
(3)
Indicate center line curve data, including delta, radius, and tangent.
(4)
Indicate approved street name.
(5)
Indicate stations at every 100 feet at even stations on center line. Indicate stations at point of curve and tangent at the beginning and end of all returns, at center line intersection and at subdivision or section limits.
(6)
Indicate the width or right-of-way and relation to center line.
(7)
Indicate state route number on all existing streets to which connection is to be made when applicable.
(8)
Indicate all existing or proposed drainage easements.
(9)
Indicate direction of drainage flow in streets, storm sewer, valley streets, streams, sub-drains and the like.
(10)
Indicate all turnaround construction, with easements as indicated on the preliminary plat.
(11)
Indicate all storm sewers and appurtenances. Identify storm sewer appurtenances type and a number. Station on plan must conform to stations shown on profile. Headwalls must be provided and shown.
(12)
Indicate the contributing area in acres at all culvert pipe, curb, inlets, and other entrances.
(13)
Indicate the location of all or any springs either within or draining to street right-of-way and indicate proposed treatment of same.
(a)
All springs will be capped and piped in a minimum (6) inch diameter perforated pipe encased in washed gravel and connected into the nearest storm sewer, or natural drain.
(14)
Indicate location of all streams of drainage ways related to the street construction.
(15)
Indicate proposed drainage ditches for the full length in all easements. Furnish detailed typical section and type of stabilization to be provided.
(16)
Indicate proposed stream locations or relocations. Show existing and proposed locations. Furnish detailed typical section and type of stabilization to be provided. Stone or concrete rip rap will be used where stream velocity exceeds six (6) feet per second.
(17)
Indicate size and type or class of pipe to be installed both in right-of-way and outside right-of-way.
(18)
Indicate paved ditches and easements at toe of fills, when required by design criteria.
(19)
Indicate paved roadside ditches when required.
(20)
Indicate guard post or guard rail where required.
(21)
Indicate traffic barricades and/or "No Thru Street" signs.
(22)
Indicate the size of all driveway entrance culvert pipe, i.e., (18") or (24") according to computed size, for each lot.
(23)
Indicate protection of ends of curb and gutter by providing for erosion control.
(24)
Indicate typical paving section designation.
(25)
Add any notes that may be necessary to explain the intent and purposes of the plan or profile.
(26)
Minimum easement widths for in placed pipe or culverts will be determined as follows:
EXPAND
Pipe Size Easement
18" 15 feet
14" to 30" 20 feet
36" to 48" 25 feet
56" to 72" 30 feet
  (b)
Profiles.
(1)
Profiles to be submitted on standard plan and profile sheets. Special studies may be submitted on cross-section paper 20 inches wide by 36 inches long (20" x 36") and shall have a scale of not less than 1 inch equals 100 feet (1" = 100') horizontally, and 1 inch equals 10 feet (1"=10') vertically.
(2)
Existing center line profiles to be shown and identified on all proposed:
(a)
Streets.
(b)
Storm sewers.
(c)
Stream relocations.
(d)
Drainage ditches.
(e)
Outfall of storm sewer to existing streams.
(3)
Where terrain is exceptionally rough, additional profiles on either side of center line may be required.
(4)
Stations shown on profile must agree with stations shown on plans.
(5)
Grade line of proposed street construction must include:
(a)
Elevations at beginning and end of all vertical curves.
(b)
Length of vertical curves with elevations and stations of vertical points of intersection.
(c)
Elevations computed every fifty feet (50') tangent sections, and grades computed every fifty feet (50').
(d)
Elevations at all center line intersections of streets, at all street center line intersections with boundaries of subdivision, at all culverts and storm sewer crossings, and at all curb inlets.
(6)
When proposed street is an extension of, or connecting with, an existing street or road, show existing center line profiles for two hundred feet (200') minimum distance to ensure proper grade tie.
(7)
If a difference exists in elevations or proposed curb grades, identify curb elevations at top of right curb, and top of left curb.
(8)
If a cul-de-sac is to be used as a temporary turnaround at the temporary end of street the proposed grade and existing profiles shall be carried through to provide for the future extension of the proposed street, i.e., 300' beyond the property line.
(9)
When a proposed street parallels or is located near an existing stream or open drainage way, furnish profiles of top of bank or stream computed water elevations and invert (or flow line) of stream or open drainage way. Show relation of proposed street grade to existing profiles of stream or open drainage way. Street construction must not encroach on the floodplain limit of the stream and must be designed to be not less than two (2) feet above the projected 100-year Flood High Water elevation.
(10)
Show proposed culvert or storm sewer crossings and sanitary sewer crossings at the proper location and grade on all street profiles.
(11)
Storm sewer to be shown in profile with the following required information:
(a)
Profile of proposed finished grade.
(b)
Profile of existing ground at center line of storm sewer.
(c)
Percent of grade of proposed storm sewer.
(d)
Size of proposed pipe or structure.
(e)
Station to be shown every one hundred feet (100') and at all appurtenances.
(f)
Show curb inlets, etc., with proposed elevations for the tops and inverts, or tabulation in plain view may be permitted if all structures are identified. Show all existing stream crossings.
(12)
Profiles of streams that are not to be piped shall include:
(a)
Profile of top bank on both sides where difference in elevation exists.
(b)
Profile of flow line (invert) of stream bed.
(c)
Profile of computed water elevation.
(d)
Where land included in subdivision is subject to flood, cross-sections, topography and spot elevations will be required as part of the floodplain study. Floor elevation for all residential dwellings shall be at least three (3) feet above the 100-year flood level.
(13)
Show existing ground at center line and proposed computed grade of invert on all streams where relocation of channel is proposed.
(14)
Give datum reference for elevations used.
Additional Details:
(15)
A registered Engineer's current stamp will be on all sheets, together with the necessary certificates for same required by Georgia State Board of Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.
(16)
The developers' names, addresses, and telephone numbers.
(17)
Proposed layout including lot lines with dimensions, lot numbers, block letters, proposed street names, right-of-way widths, street widths indicated clearly from either face to face or back to back of curb lines (specify); and easements for sanitary sewer, storm water drainage, or pedestrian access.
(18)
Location and results of percolation tests for lots not to be served by sanitary sewers as required by the Taylor County Health Department.
(19)
Location of land subject to flooding, indicated by a flood crest contour (100-year floodplain).
(20)
Location of all sanitary sewer lines and laterals with appurtenances (specify type).
(21)
Location of tract showing Land District and Land Lot, giving acreage of tract being developed.
(22)
Any request for deviations from the above regulations or any questions concerning these, or the Code or the Standards will be addressed to the Engineer.
(23)
All plans shall show the total length of paved roads being dedicated as a Public Road. This figure, along with other applicable road construction items, will be used in establishing the value of the maintenance bond.
(24)
Plans will not be accepted for review by the Zoning Administrator unless accompanied by signed certificate from a registered professional engineer certifying that all the items above have been complied with or showing by itemized list where approved deviations exist.
(25)
The Engineer will be given a definite date by the Developer as to when construction is to begin and the anticipated time duration or the contract.
