Chapter 32 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Motor Carrier Act of 2012, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-50 et seq.; Georgia Limousine Carrier Act, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-150 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 32-1—32-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXICABS

Sec. 32-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Permit means the written authority granted by the mayor and council of the city under this article to engage in the taxicab business in the city, as said business is defined by provisions of this article.
Person includes any individual, a firm, a co-partnership, corporation, company or association of joint stock association.
Streets or public streets means any of the public streets, boulevards, avenues, drives or alleys in the city.
Taxicab means any motor-driven vehicle for transportation for hire of passengers and which is operated wholly or principally within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1973, § 17-10)
Sec. 32-20. - Scope of regulations.
The operating of taxicabs within the city shall be subject to the conditions, regulations, and restrictions hereinafter set forth, and it shall be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated in the city any taxicab unless a permit for the operation thereof shall have first been issued by said mayor and council.
(Code 1973, § 17-11)
Sec. 32-21. - Permit required.
No taxicab shall be operated on the streets of the city unless and until the mayor and council has issued a permit for the operation thereof.
(Code 1973, § 17-12)
Sec. 32-22. - Application for permit.
Application for permits shall be made to the mayor and council by a petition which shall set forth the name, address, and place of business of the applicant, if an individual, and if a partnership the name and business of said partnership, and if a corporation, the trade name under which an applicant does or promises to do business, the name of the insurance company or surety company with which applicant has made arrangements to secure his insurance or surety bond as required by this article, and also a financial statement of said company and such other information as may be required by the mayor and council.
(Code 1973, § 17-13)
Sec. 32-23. - Investigation and action on application.
(a)
The mayor and council shall make or cause to be made an investigation, including any hearing, deemed necessary as to each application or permitting for the operation of such taxicabs, and in determining whether a permit shall issue, the mayor and council may investigate the fitness of the applicant to engage in the business of operating taxicabs and also shall make or cause to be made an investigation in order to determine whether the demands of public convenience, necessity and safety justify the issuance of such permit.
(b)
Each and every applicant for taxi license shall and will be carefully considered by the mayor and city council, and after careful consideration of all the facts and circumstances, any and all applications, in the discretion of the authority aforesaid, they will then grant or deny the applicant a license.
(Code 1973, § 17-14)
Sec. 32-24. - Issuance or denial of permit; transferability.
If the mayor and council determines to grant a permit for the operation of such taxicab, he shall issue the applicant a permit herein provided for, and such permit shall not be transferable except upon the consent of the mayor and council in writing. If the mayor and council finds and decides that the public convenience, necessity and safety does not justify the issuance of said permit, or that the insurance company or surety company in which the applicant has made arrangements to secure insurance as required by the provisions of this article is not a good and responsible insurance or surety company having an agent in said city, or that the provisions of the proposed policy or surety bond do not give ample protection to the public, or that the applicant is not a fit and proper person to conduct the taxicab business, then no permit shall be issued, and notice of the action of the mayor and council shall be given to the applicant, setting forth the reason for the refusal of said permit.
(Code 1973, § 17-15)
Sec. 32-25. - Insurance or bond required.
It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, driver or chauffeur of any taxicab to drive or operate the same on the streets of said city unless such owner, operator, driver or chauffeur shall have first procured and filed with the mayor and council a liability insurance policy, issued by a good and responsible insurance company, or surety bond issued by a good and responsible surety company, which said insurance company or surety company must have authority to do business in the state, and possessed of a certificate duly issued by the state, and must have an agent in the city, which said insurance company or surety company must be approved by the mayor and council. The amount of liability insurance or surety bond for each taxicab shall be an amount not less than $20,000.00 for bodily injury, $40,000.00 total for each accident, and $5,000.00 for property damage for each accident. Said policy of insurance or surety bond may be in the form of a separate policy or separate surety bond for each taxicab, or may be in the form of a "fleet policy" covering all taxicabs operated by such owner, driver or chauffeur, in which latter event said policy of insurance or surety bond shall provide the same liability for each taxicab operated. Every taxicab while in service shall have conspicuously placed therein some sign evidencing the fact that the provisions of this section have been complied with, the form thereof to be prescribed by said mayor and council.
(Code 1973, § 17-16)
Sec. 32-26. - Notice required to cancel insurance or bond.
No policy of insurance or surety bond as hereinbefore provided shall be canceled until the expiration of ten days' notice of intended cancellation thereof has been given in writing to the mayor and council by registered mail or personal delivery of said notice and a provision therefor shall be made a part of said policy or surety bond.
(Code 1973, § 17-17)
Sec. 32-27. - Using cab for immoral purposes.
It shall be unlawful for any driver or any taxicab operated in the city to permit any person to accompany or use such taxicab for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation, or to direct, take or transport, or to offer or agree to direct, take or transport any other person with knowledge or reasonable cause to believe the purpose of directing, taking or transporting is for prostitution, lewdness or assignation.
(Code 1973, § 17-18)
Sec. 32-28. - Maximum workday for drivers.
It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of any taxicab to drive or operate said taxicab for more than 16 hours in any one 24 hours.
(Code 1973, § 17-19)
Sec. 32-29. - Dome light required on cabs.
It shall be unlawful for any taxicab to be driven or operated upon the streets of the city unless the same is equipped with a dome light across the top of the taxicab with the words "Taxi" written thereon that can be seen in daytime and lighted at night.
(Code 1973, § 17-20)
Sec. 32-30. - Notice of violations required.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to notify the mayor and council of any and all violations of any provisions of this article by any taxicab operator or chauffeur.
(Code 1973, § 17-21)
Sec. 32-31. - Suspension, revocation of taxicab permit.
Whenever any person, firm or corporation engaged in the taxicab business or any operator or driver of any taxicab within the city is found to be violating the provisions of this article or the laws of the state, or any other law of the city, the chief of police, upon complaint, or upon his own motion, shall issue an order to said person, firm or corporation, operator or driver to appear at a fixed time and place for investigation and if the mayor and council shall be satisfied, after such hearing of the violation, or of the laws of the city, or the state, or any terms of the permit issued, the mayor and council may suspend for a fixed period in its discretion, or in its discretion revoke the permit issued.
(Code 1973, § 17-24)
Sec. 32-32. - Alcoholic beverages prohibited in taxicabs.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation engaged in the taxicab business in the city to have, cause to be had, or permit to be had in any taxicab any quantity of malt, vinous, intoxicating, spirituous, or alcoholic liquors, whether the tax on same has been paid or not, and the owner of any taxicab in which is found any quantity of such liquors or beverages shall be liable to the same extent as if he, the owner, were in actual possession of such liquors and beverages at such time; provided that if such liquors and beverages are found in any such taxicab, both the owner and operator as one shall be jointly guilty. This provision with reference to such liquors and beverages shall not apply if such liquors are found on the person of the passenger in such taxicab who is actually riding as a fare-paying passenger, and who is not an employee of the owner of such taxicab.
(Code 1973, § 17-25)
Sec. 32-33. - Procedure when alcoholic beverages found in taxicab.
If any liquors and beverages defined in section 32-32 shall be found in any taxicab used for the purpose of transporting passengers for hire, whether or not same is actually in use at such time for such purpose, the city clerk shall issue a rule to show cause, bearing tests in the name of the mayor of the city, requiring the owner of such taxicab to appear at a hearing before the mayor and council at such time and place as shall be stated in said rule which hearing shall not be less than three days from date of said rule; thereupon, the mayor and council shall hear evidence as to the issue involved, and if it shall be determined that there has been a violation of this section, the license of such taxicab owner shall be immediately revoked and no other license shall be issued to him to engage in said business until the expiration of one year from the date of the revocation of such license. In the event such license is revoked, no refund shall be made by said city on the license issued to such offender.
(Code 1973, § 17-26)
Sec. 32-34. - Violations, penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any provision of this article, whether the owner or operator of the taxicab involved, in addition to having the license of the owner of such taxicab revoked, shall be punished upon conviction thereof according to section 1-14.
(Code 1973, § 17-27)
