Chapter 10 - BUSINESS REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local taxes and fees, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I; limitation on expanding the power of municipal regulation over any business activity regulated by the public service commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(5); business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAX

Sec. 10-19. - Tax required for business dealings with the city.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city, or in case of an out-of-state business with no location in Georgia exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall annually pay an occupational tax for said business, trade, profession or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the city, such business tax registration shall be shown to the clerk or his designee or to any police officer of the city upon their request.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-1)
Sec. 10-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupational tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business within a multiple line business that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Location or office includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue raising purposes.
Person wherever used in this article shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, or any other form of business organizations, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioners of professions and occupations shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees or by another name, which are required by local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-2)
Sec. 10-21. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those business and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations within the corporate limits of the city or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the number of full-time or part-time employees of the business or profession.
(b)
Occupation tax schedule:
EXPAND
Number of Employees Tax Rate
0—9 $100.00
10 or more  250.00
  (Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-3)
Sec. 10-22. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the city shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-4)
Sec. 10-23. - The number of business considered operating in city.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-5)
Sec. 10-24. - Professionals as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18).
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees.
(2)
A fee per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location. The per practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework. The practitioner's fee shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(3)
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by December 1 of each year.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-6)
Sec. 10-25. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for the government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentalities of the United States, the state or a municipality or county in the state, shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-7)
Sec. 10-26. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-8)
Sec. 10-27. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall be delinquent if not paid by March 1 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in section 10-33. On any new profession, trade or calling begun in the city in 1995 or succeeding years thereafter, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a ten percent penalty imposed. The tax registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city clerk and if any person, firm or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any of the kind of profession, trade or calling in this article specified without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall, upon the conviction of the city judge, be punished as provided in section 10-22, and each day's failure to comply with any such provision shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the above remedies, the chief of police may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-9)
Sec. 10-28. - Exemption on grounds that business operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation taxes levied by this article shall be exempt from said registration or tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 50 percent or more of the entire proceeds from said business are devoted to such purpose.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-10)
Sec. 10-29. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable.
State registration to be displayed shall be as follows:
(1)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city registration may be issued.
(2)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-11)
Sec. 10-30. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a business registration by the city, show evidence of such qualification.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-12)
Sec. 10-31. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for said business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 or each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting, or offering to transact, in the city any of the kinds of business, trade, profession or occupation without first having so obtained said registration shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-13)
Sec. 10-32. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all tax and fees as provided herein before March 1 of each year, and on March 2 of each year thereafter. Any person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required for commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the city any business, trade, profession or occupation without first having obtained said registration shall be subject to the provisions in section 10-33. Said penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal herein provided; and may be collected by the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city clerk, and if any person, firm or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any of the kind of business, trade, profession or occupation without first having obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-14)
Sec. 10-33. - Penalty of article violation.
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction before the city judge, be punished as provided in section 1-14, and each day to comply with any such provision shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-15)
Sec. 10-34. - Businesses not covered by this article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by act of local law.
(1)
The businesses regulated by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. title 46, chapter 3.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agriculture products, and not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the State of Georgia governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(11)
The sale of alcoholic beverages governed by O.C.G.A. title 3.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-16)
Sec. 10-35. - Payment of occupation tax by newly established business.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the corporate limits of the city in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees to be employed.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-17)
Sec. 10-36. - More than one place or line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place of where the business includes more than one line, the number of employees of each location will be entered on a separate occupation tax return and each different line of business will have the number of employees of that line of business identified on a form to be furnished by the business license department of the city.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-18)
Sec. 10-37. - Filing of return showing number of employees.
On or before November 1 of each year, the owner, proprietor, manager or executive officer of the business liable for said occupation tax levied for the year shall file with the city clerk, on a form furnished by the city clerk, a signed return setting forth the average number of yearly employees (full-time or part-time) of such business during the preceding calendar year.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-19)
Sec. 10-38. - Inspection of books and records.
In any case, the mayor and council of the city, through its officers, agents, employees or representatives, may inspect the books of the business or person for which the returns are made. The city clerk shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in Reynolds, Georgia and upon demand of the mayor and council, such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the city within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the tax registration currently existing to do business in the city. Adequate records shall be kept in the city for examination by the mayor and council at their discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of under reporting, a penalty of one percent per month of the amount of the deficiency shall be assessed for the period of delinquency.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-20)
Sec. 10-39. - Tax registration to be revoked for failure to pay tax.
Upon the failure of any business to pay said occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, any business type tax registration granted by the city under this article permitting owner of said business to do business in the city for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the city for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation herein provided for is at that time unpaid. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct its business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-21)
Sec. 10-40. - Amendment, repeal of provision.
This article shall be subject to amendment or appeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or appeal shall be construed to deny the right of the mayor and council of the city to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Said amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the city of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property or business.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-22)
Sec. 10-41. - Requirement of public hearing before tax increase.
The mayor and council of the city shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation taxes set forth in this article.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-23)
Sec. 10-42. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in occupation tax.
The council may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of business or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or for attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of a regular meeting of the mayor and council of the city.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-24)
Sec. 10-43. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. I, § 9-25)
Secs. 10-44—10-61. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - INSURANCE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— General assembly authorized to provide for taxation of insurance companies based on gross direct premiums received from insurance policies within the unincorporated areas of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I(c); powers of municipal corporations to impose license fees on life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8; local tax on life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1; local tax on other than life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2.

Sec. 10-62. - Company license fee.
(a)
Life insurers license fees. There is hereby levied each year an annual license fee upon each life insurer doing business within the city. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by subsection (b) of this section, which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is hereby levied a license fee. For the purposes of this article, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1). The annual license fees shall be in amounts as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(b)
License fee for life insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations. For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales, offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of a life insurer for life insurance said insurer shall pay an additional license fee per location for each year. The additional license fee shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(c)
Life insurance agency license fees; independent life insurance agencies, brokers, etc., not otherwise licensed. There is hereby levied for each year an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which a life insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by subsection (a) of this section hereof for each such location within the city.
(d)
Gross premiums tax imposed on life insurers. There is hereby levied for each year an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the city in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums" as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by subsection (a) of this section.
(e)
Gross premiums tax, all other insurers. There is hereby levied for each year an annual tax upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business within the city in an amount equal to 2.5 percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums" as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a).
(f)
Due date for license fees. License fees imposed in subsections (a), (b) and (c) of this section shall be due and payable on February 1, 1984 and on February 1 of each subsequent year.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. II, § 9-20)
Secs. 10-63—10-82. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - TELEPHONE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Power of municipal authorities concerning telegraph or telephone company service, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1.

Sec. 10-83. - Occupational license tax.
Each telephone company operating in the city, shall pay, on or before August 31 of each year, an occupational license tax for that calendar year in the amount of three percent of recurring local service revenues received by such company from subscribers located within the city. The annual amount due may be computed by analyzing the recurring local service revenues billed during the month of June preceding the date of payment.
Actual recurring local service revenues means those revenues customarily included in the Uniform System of Accounts as prescribed by the Federal Communications Commission for Class "A" and "B" companies; provided, however, that only the local service portion of the following accounts shall be included:
(1)
Basic local service revenue, as defined in 47 CFR 32.5000;
(2)
Basic area revenue, as defined in 47 CFR 32.5001;
(3)
Optional extended area revenue, as defined in 47 CFR 32.5002;
(4)
Public telephone revenue, as defined in 47 CFR 32.5010;
(5)
Local private line revenue, as defined in 47 CFR 35.5040; provided, however, that the portion of such accounts attributable to audio and video program transmission service where both terminals of the private line are within the corporate limits of the municipal authority shall not be included;
(6)
Other local exchange revenue, as defined in 47 CFR 32.5060;
(7)
Local exchange service, as defined in 47 CFR 32.5069;
(8)
Network access revenue, as defined in 47 CFR 32.5080;
(9)
Directory revenue, as defined in 47 CFR 32.5230; provided, however, that the portion of such accounts attributable to revenue derived from listings in portion of directories not considered white pages shall not be included;
(10)
Nonregulated operating revenue, as defined in 47 CFR 32.5280; provided, however, that the portion of such accounts attributable to revenues derived from private lines shall not be included; and
(11)
Uncollectible revenue, as defined in 47 CFR 32.5300.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. III, § 9-21)
Secs. 10-84—10-109. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS BUSINESS LICENSE TAX[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Local depository financial institutions business license tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 10-110. - Levy of tax; filing of return; when tax due.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is hereby levied for each year an annual business license tax upon state and national banking associations, federal savings and loan associations and state building and loan associations a business license tax at the rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of said institutions as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, the minimum amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to this article shall be $1,000.00 per year.
(b)
Due date; filing of return. Each depository financial institution within the city shall file a return of its gross receipts with the city on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts were measured. Said returns shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of banking and shall be based upon the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The tax levied pursuant to this article shall be assessed and collected based upon the information provided in said return. The due date of taxes levied by this article shall be April 1 of each year.
(Code 1973, ch. 9, art. IV, § 9-22)
Secs. 10-111—10-133. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT VENDORS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Transient merchants, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

Sec. 10-134. - Solicitors' permit required; application; investigation.
No person except duly organized charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit within the city without first having obtained a permit from the mayor and council after making written application to the mayor and council stating the nature and purpose of such solicitation. The city may appoint any person to investigate and advise the mayor and council as to the necessity or need for said permit.
(Code 1973, § 11-1)
Sec. 10-135. - Denial or issuance of solicitors' permit; violations.
Upon authorization, after due hearing, the mayor and council has the right to grant or refuse a solicitors' permit. Should said permit be refused and such person or persons solicit after refusal of said permit, it shall be a violation of this Code. Each solicitation shall be a separate and distinct offense and punishable as such in the recorder's court.
(Code 1973, § 11-2)
