Chapter 26 - STREETS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— City has power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, streetlights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4); municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; powers with respect to municipal street system, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; municipal authority to regulate alleys, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Littering prohibited.
No person shall place any garbage, rubbish, trash, paper or any litter of any kind whatsoever upon any street, sidewalk, alley, park, lane or other public grounds of the city.
(Code 1973, § 13-1)
Sec. 26-2. - Obstructing ditches, drains.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to fill up any ditch or drain in any of the streets or alleys of the city or to purposely place any obstruction therein to prevent the free flow of water.
(Code 1973, § 13-2)
Sec. 26-3. - Obstructing streets, sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to convert any public street, sidewalk or alley in the city to his use, or place any obstruction in or upon them, or either of them, such as wood, barrels and boxes, merchandise, timber or lumber, except necessarily for building purposes, and such obstruction shall be moved by the police or the street department at the expense of the owner or owners thereof or the person causing said obstruction.
(Code 1973, § 13-3)
Sec. 26-4. - Obstruction to vision at intersections.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge of any lot, parcel or piece of land within the city to allow any obstruction to vision in the triangle formed by the lines of two intersecting streets, or a street and an alley, and a line joining points of such lines 25 feet distant from their point of intersection by permitting any vegetation to grow or be maintained between the heights of three feet and ten feet above the grade of the center line of the intersection, or by constructing or maintaining any fence or other structure which constitutes an obstruction to view within the triangle.
(Code 1973, § 13-4)
Sec. 26-5. - Street name signs—Changing without authority.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any sign designating a street, avenue or other public place by a different name than that by which it is generally and legally known, or to refuse to remove the same from their property when requested to do so by an officer of the city.
(Code 1973, § 13-5)
Sec. 26-6. - Street name signs—Injuring or removing.
It shall be unlawful for any person willfully and maliciously to injure, deface or remove any of the street signs posted at or near the corner of the streets in the city.
(Code 1973, § 13-6)
Sec. 26-7—26-23. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCAVATIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-9-1 et seq.

Sec. 26-24. - Definition.
The phrase "public place," as employed in this article, shall be construed to mean a street, alley, sidewalk or other public property owned by the city or under its supervision.
(Code 1973, § 13-12)
Sec. 26-25. - Permit—Required.
(a)
A permit is required to excavate in any public place within the city or install, repair or replace any of his property or equipment in such public place, or do any other work in or on any public place, which requires the removal or breaking of the surface or underpart of any such public place, unless and until such person shall have first secured, in the manner provided in this chapter, permission to do so.
(b)
If any person shall do any of the acts referred to in this section without first having secured permission to do so in the manner provided in this chapter, he shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-14.
(Code 1973, § 13-13)
Sec. 26-26. - Permit—Application.
Each person desiring permission to dig or excavate in any public place shall file with the city clerk a written or printed application, setting forth the character and location of such work to be done in any such public place, the probable number of square yards of surface to be removed and the probable date of beginning and the completion of the work.
(Code 1973, § 13-14)
Sec. 26-27. - Permit—Fees and deposits.
In the event the applicant for the permit to excavate is qualified to perform the work himself, including replacing the street to its condition prior to the excavation, there shall be no charge for the issuance of the permit. If the city must fill and resurface the street or public way, the applicant shall deposit with the city at the time of application, a sum of money which shall be fixed by the director of public works and shall be based on the cost per square yard of replacement plus ten percent.
(Code 1973, § 13-15)
Sec. 26-28. - Permit—Grant or refusal.
Each application, as referred to in section 26-26 shall be delivered by the city clerk to the director of public works, who shall without unreasonable delay, either grant or reject such application. Upon rejection of the application, the applicant shall have the right to present the matter to the mayor and council, the order of which shall be final in such matter, and upon final rejection, the deposit of money referred to in section 26-27 shall be returned to the person who deposited the same.
(Code 1973, § 13-16)
Sec. 26-29. - Failure to complete or restore.
Upon the failure of any person, whose application to dig or excavate shall have been granted and who shall have begun the work, to complete the same without delay, or upon the completion of such work, to restore the public place to the same or as good a condition as the same was before such work was done, or to comply with any reasonable rules or regulations of the director of public works from time to time given to such person for the completion and restoration of such public place, such person shall upon conviction, in addition to other penalties, forfeit to the city any deposit of money so made with the city clerk.
(Code 1973, § 13-17)
Sec. 26-30. - Restoration by city.
Upon the failure of any person to make such repairs as herein required in the manner or in the time required, the director of public works is empowered and authorized to cause such repairs to be made and such public place to be restored to its original condition, and the cost thereof, plus ten percent thereof, shall be charged to and paid by such person who so failed to make such repairs, and such sum of money shall constitute and be a debt due from such person to the city.
(Code 1973, § 13-18)
Sec. 26-31. - Use or refund of deposit.
The deposit of money made under section 26-27 shall stand as a guarantee and may be employed by the city for the replacement of such public place in as good condition as the same was immediately before the excavation or digging, and upon default of the person so making such deposit to restore immediately the public place to as good condition as the same was immediately before such excavation or digging was done by him, the director of public works may employ the whole or any part of such deposit of money necessary for such restoration. Upon the restoration of the public place to such condition as the same was immediately before such digging or excavating, the city clerk shall, upon the certificate of the director of public works, restore to the person so making such deposit such sum of money so deposited, or in case any part thereof is employed by the city for such restoration of such public place, upon such certificate, the city clerk shall refund such part of such sum of money remaining.
(Code 1973, § 13-19)
Sec. 26-32. - Prompt work.
All digging or excavating to be done, as provided in this article, shall be promptly started and completed without delay after permission shall have been granted, and such public place shall be, immediately upon the completion of such work, restored to the same or as good condition as the same was before such work was done thereon. Such work or restoration shall be at all times and in all respects in compliance with the orders and supervision of the director of public works from time to time given to such person for such purpose.
(Code 1973, § 13-10)
Sec. 26-33. - Warning devices; posting permit.
Upon the granting of an application for permission to dig or excavate in any public place, and in all other cases provided for in this chapter, it shall be the duty of the applicant, before beginning any such work, to enclose the place where such work is being done or otherwise afford adequate protection to street traffic. He shall post and keep posted at such place a placard showing that the work is being done under a permit granted by the city, with sufficient other information thereon to give ample warning to those using such public place that the same is out of repair or being repaired, and in addition thereto, he shall place sufficient markings at night by a red light, to notify those having the right to use the same that such public place, or part thereof, is closed.
(Code 1973, § 13-21)
Sec. 26-34. - Decision of mayor and council final.
Any controversy between the person making a deposit in order to dig or excavate in any public place and the city clerk or director of public works respecting any of the duties to be performed by any of them, may be submitted to the mayor and council by any of the parties, and when so submitted, the action of the mayor and council thereon shall be binding on all the parties.
(Code 1973, § 13-11)
Sec. 26-35—26-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STREET ADDRESSING

Sec. 26-51. - Definitions:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Address program administrator means the official of the city charged with the administration of this article, including his authorized representative. The planning and zoning director of the city, or such person as may be designated by the mayor and council, shall serve as the address program administrator.
Address program administrator assistant means the official of the city charged with assisting the address program administrator. The address program administrator assistant shall be the city clerk of the mayor and council or such other person as designated by the mayor and council.
Building means a structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter of persons for residential or business use. When separated by division walls from the ground up without openings, each such enclosure may be deemed a separate building. Buildings without divisions, as described in this article, that are used as multifamily or multiuse facilities may, at the discretion of the address program administrator, be assigned more than one address.
Concurrence means that the mayor and council shall have the right to disapprove any action of the address program administrator by a majority vote. If the mayor and council shall fail to act within two regular meetings after the action of the address program administrator, the mayor and council shall be deemed to have concurred with the action.
Driveway means a private way, beginning at the property line of a lot abutting a public road, private road, easement or private right-of-way, and leading to a building, lot or physical location.
Private road means any one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or egress, serving two or more properties, but not for use by the general public.
Public road means any road, street, highway, thoroughfare, or other way of passage that has been irrevocably dedicated to the public or in which the public has acquired rights by prescription, without regard to whether it is open for travel.
Street address means the combination of numbers and road names assigned under the terms of this article which identifies a particular building, lot or other physical location.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
Sec. 26-52. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose and intent of this article is to provide a uniform system of assigning addresses for all properties and buildings throughout the city in order to facilitate provision of adequate public safety and emergency response service, and to minimize difficulty in locating properties and building for public service agencies and the general public.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
Sec. 26-53. - Administration and application.
The address program administrator and program assistant, with concurrence of the mayor and council, will be responsible for interpretation and administration of this article including:
(1)
Assigning all numbers for properties and building except that the initial system shall be created by Clifton Consulting firm.
(2)
Maintaining a database of addresses of each property and building.
(3)
Designating individual unit addresses within multiple housing units in conformity with this article.
(4)
Recommending to the mayor and council such changes to this article or to the road name system as may be necessary to facilitate the perpetuation and efficiency of the address system.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
Sec. 26-54. - Enforcement.
(a)
Owners or occupants of buildings already constructed which do not comply with this article will be notified and requested to meet the requirements within 60 days from the date of notification. A warning notice will be issued by registered or certified mail after the 60 days if the requirements have not been met. The owner or occupant who does not comply with this article within 30 days after delivery of a warning notice shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in the following:
(1)
The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 31-1-20 give the city, for the purpose of protecting and preserving the public health, safety and welfare, authorization to adopt resolutions and ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the city, violations of which resolutions and ordinances may be punished by fine or imprisonment, or both.
(2)
The Georgia General Assembly, in 1991, amended O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20, relating to resolutions and ordinances for governing and policing the incorporated areas of the city, so as to increase the maximum fine from $500.00 to $1,000.00.
(b)
Violation of this article may also be enforced by seeking an order to compel compliance of civil remedies against the violator. Prosecutions for violation of this article shall be upon citation, as provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-62 and 15-10-63, in the municipal court of the city. Any person, business, establishment, congregation, group, hunting camp or other legal entity violating any of the above, ordinance may be given a summons and tried in the municipal court of city. Upon conviction said person shall be fined a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $500.00; and sentences to a jail term of not more than 90 days in jail, either or both, or any part thereof. The address program administrator is authorized to issue citations for the enforcement of the provision contained within this article, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
Sec. 26-55. - Display of street address numbers.
(a)
At such time as each owner of improved property is contacted by the mayor and council and instructed to do so, he shall purchase and display official reflective address numbers so that they are clearly visible from the street or road on which the property fronts. Any post upon which any numbers are mounted should be no less than 24 inches and no more than 48 inches above ground. The following criteria shall be used to properly display the numbers.
(1)
Address numbers must meet the minimum size requirements indicated as follows:
a.
Mailboxes and/or posts upon which they are mounted must bear reflective letters three inches in height. Said posts are to be no less than 24 inches and no more than 48 inches above ground. Addresses must be visible from each direction of travel (both sides).
b.
Residences and businesses must bear reflective numbers three inches in height and be of contrasting color to the background upon which they are placed.
c.
Residences and businesses must place a mailbox and/or posts bearing reflective address numbers three inches in height, and in immediate proximity to the driveway or private road that leads to such residence or business.
(2)
Numbers for a multiple dwelling complex or nonresidential building shall be three inches in height and shall be placed on a mailbox and/or posts. Individual units within a multiple dwelling complex shall be required to display a unit reflective number which is three inches in height on the front door or immediately adjacent to the door.
(3)
On a corner lot, the house number shall face the street named in the address and by which access to the building is gained.
(b)
The address program administrator and program assistant, with the concurrence of the mayor and council, will have the right to authorize and approve alternate methods of displaying numbers which meet the intent of this article when strict adherence to these standards cannot be met or is impractical.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
Sec. 26-56. - Types of numbers.
The following two types of numbers are to be used under this article:
(1)
A primary number is to be assigned to each street frontage of each improved property. The primary number must be posted on that property if the property is occupied by a dwelling unit, structure or active use and the owner, occupant or person in charge is notified.
(2)
Secondary numbers may be used when a number of units, structures and uses coexist on the same parcel of land. Examples of secondary numbers include apartment projects, mobile home park, office parks, planned unit developments, recreational vehicle parks, recreational areas, shopping centers and other uses where the use of secondary numbers would clarify the location of a unit or use for public safety purposes. To provide secondary numbers, the address program administrator shall work with the owner, manager or person in charge of the project to determine a logical numbering system.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
Sec. 26-57. - New street names.
(a)
No new public street in the city shall be named without the approval of the mayor and council.
(b)
No new private street names shall be recognized by this article or added to the city's list of street names without the approval of the mayor and council.
(c)
The name of any new street and/or private street shall not duplicate or be confusingly similar to an existing street name. This restriction shall not apply to extensions of existing streets.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
Sec. 26-58. - Renaming an existing street.
(a)
Anyone requesting renaming of an existing street shall submit to the mayor and council a petition requesting the change and bearing the signatures of a majority of residents on said street. The petition shall state the existing name, the proposed name, the reason for requesting the change, and the signatures of those citizens supporting the change.
(b)
The mayor and council shall decide whether or not to grant the request for changing the street name. If the change is approved, the petitioners shall be required to pay the city the full costs of purchasing and installing the new signs, including the cost of labor. This fee shall be calculated by the city and shall be paid by the petitioners prior to the purchase of the new signs.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
Sec. 26-59. - Numbers for future structures and lots.
An address number must be assigned prior to the issuance of a building permit. Address numbers shall be assigned to all subdivision lots prior to the recording of the final subdivision plan. All properties not addressed at the time of adoption of this article shall obtain an address number prior to issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
Sec. 26-60. - Utility company compliance.
Following the adoption of this article, all utility services regulated by the state public service commission or any utility cooperative service organization providing service in the unincorporated area of the city shall withhold service from any building, dwelling, mobile home or other structure not exempt under this article until the owner or other requesting party has furnished the utility with a valid, assigned number.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
Sec. 26-61. - Implementation by city departments.
Every department and official under the jurisdiction of the mayor and council shall withhold nonemergency service until the occupant/owner requesting service has provided the department with a valid, assigned numbers. Nonemergency service includes any services except law enforcement, fire, rescue, or emergency medical service.
(Ord. of 10-20-2003)
