Chapter 18 - HEALTH AND SANITATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - General duty to keep premises clean.
All property owners and tenants are required to keep their houses, storehouses, stores, places of business and their premises in a sanitary condition.
(Code 1973, § 8-1)
State Law reference— Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42 et seq.
Sec. 18-2. - Garbage containers.
(a)
Required specifications. The owner, agent and occupant of any premises, improved or unimproved, in the city, wherein garbage shall be created, shall provide metal, watertight containers, each with a tight-fitting metal cover, such container or containers to be of 30-gallon size, and of such number to receive the garbage accumulation of nine days from each premises, and shall place such containers, or cause them to be placed in the rear of said premises, for the purpose of having their contents removed. It shall be unlawful for such owner, agent, and/or occupant of any such premises to have, maintain, or keep garbage on any premises except in such garbage containers as are provided for in this section. Said owner, agent and/or occupant shall also keep clean and free from rubbish and similar loose material all premises whether improved or unimproved as well as all open lots and areas.
(b)
To be kept covered. Containers shall be kept tightly covered at all times except when momentarily opened to receive garbage or to have the contents removed, as is provided for hereinafter.
(c)
Application to business, residential premises. The provisions of this section shall apply to all public and private markets, as well as all places of business, hotels, motels, restaurants, and all other premises, whether used for business or residential purposes. Commercial establishments having perishable refuse shall provide a separate flytight metal can for such waste only. Other nonperishable wastes from commercial establishments shall be placed in a separate can or enclosure.
(d)
Definitions. For the purpose of enforcing this section, any person living on any premises shall be deemed an occupant, and any person receiving the rent, in whole or in part, of any premises shall be deemed an agent, and the person in charge of any market, or stall in any market or place of business, or hotels, motels, restaurants, and all other premises, whether used for business or residential or other purposes, shall be deemed an occupant.
(Code 1973, § 8-2)
Sec. 18-3. - Ordinance establishing a garbage collection fee.
(a)
There shall be a garbage collection fee per month for each residence and rates for each business located within the corporate limits of the city. The garbage collection fee shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(1)
A pickup is to consist of no more than two 30-gallon cans (i.e., a customer with three cans must pay at least for three pickups per week even if it is only picked up twice per week).
(2)
Certain businesses that have excessive bulk garbage will be assessed special rates in amounts as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(3)
For residences outside the corporate limits, but served with city water and sewers, there shall be a surcharge. The surcharge shall be in an amount as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(b)
For purposes of this article, the term "garbage" shall mean as follows:
(1)
Residence means that normal and ordinary waste and refuse incident to the operation and maintenance of a household and shall include only such waste and refuse as can be placed in garbage containers.
(2)
Business means that normal and ordinary waste and refuse incident to the operation and maintenance of a business and shall include only such waste and refuse as can be placed in garbage containers. This does not include the waste and scraps from manufacturing businesses.
(c)
The garbage collection fee shall be included on the monthly water and sewerage bill, where applicable, and in the event the consumer does not receive a water and sewerage bill, he shall be billed separately for the garbage collection fee. Nonpayment of the garbage collection fee shall be collected by cutoff of all services same to include garbage collection, water and sewerage services, and such other sanctions as are authorized by law.
(Code 1973, § 8-3)
Sec. 18-4. - Unsanitary pits prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or in any way controlling lots within the city to dig or maintain at any place on any lot, any pit, well or other place into which shall be conducted and deposited by sewers, pipes, drains or otherwise, feculent matter, waste or foul water from any water closet, privy, kitchen or other place.
(Code 1973, § 8-4)
Secs. 18-5—18-27. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FOOD AND FOOD HANDLERS

Sec. 18-28. - County permit required for eating, drinking establishments.
All eating and drinking establishments or places in the city shall be required to secure a permit from the county health department. A person conducting an itinerant restaurant shall also be required to secure a permit. No business license shall be issued to an eating or drinking establishment or place or person conducting an itinerant restaurant within the city before a permit has been granted by the county health department.
(Code 1973, § 8-10)
Sec. 18-29. - Distribution of milk, dairy products without county permit prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute for consumption, within the limits of the city, milk or other dairy products without having first obtained a permit from the board of health of the county indicating compliance with the regulation of said board of health.
(Code 1973, § 8-11)
Sec. 18-30. - Sanitary method of disposal required.
Every residence and building in which human beings reside, or employed or congregate, shall be required to have a sanitary method of human excreta disposal; namely, connecting with the city sewerage system. It shall be unlawful to dispose of any human excreta within the corporate limits of the city except in a sanitary water closet connected with the city sewerage system.
(Code 1973, § 8-18)
Sec. 18-31. - Responsibility of owner, lessor; wastes permitted in privies.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning or leasing any premises in the city to permit the disposal of any human excreta on any property leased or rented by such person, firm or corporation, or by his or their agent, except in a sanitary water closet connected with the city sewerage system.
(Code 1973, § 8-19)
Sec. 18-32. - Connection to sewer required when available.
Any residence or house, or place of business that is within the city shall be required to put in a sanitary water closet and connect with the city sewerage system.
(Code 1973, § 8-20)
