ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 2-1. - As used in this appendix.
For the purpose of this Appendix, certain words or terms are defined as follows. All other words not defined below shall have their customary dictionary meanings.
All words used in the present tense include the future tense. All words in the plural number include the singular number, and all words in the singular number include the plural number, unless the natural construction of the wording indicates otherwise. The word building includes the word structure the words shall and must are intended to be mandatory; the word used or occupied as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied.
Abandoned vehicle. Any motor vehicle which is either non-operable, dismantled, or does not bear a current state license plate, unless said vehicle is stored within a completely enclosed building or on a bona fide sales lot and is in satisfactory operating condition.
Accessory building or use. A use or building customarily incident and subordinate to that of the principal building on the same building lot.
Accessory dwelling. A dwelling unit within, or on the same lot as, a single-family dwelling. It is an independent dwelling unit, but it may share an entrance, yard, and parking with the principal unit.
Alley. A privately owned access drive located in the rear of a single or multifamily residential unit that provides residents with vehicular access.
Automobile wrecking yard or automobile used parts lot. Any place where three or more vehicles not in running condition, or the parts thereof, are stored in the open or any building or structure used principally for wrecking or storage of automobiles not in running condition.
Automotive or other vehicle sales. Any business or dealer that engages in the sale or lease of new or used motor vehicles, motorcycles, boats or any motorized watercraft, recreational vehicles, or trailers.
Average finished grade. The average final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
For the purpose of determining building height, average finished grade shall be the average of the highest and lowest point of the building footprint on a given elevation.
Bank, savings & loan, or credit union. A financial institution as defined by O.C.G.A. ยง 7-1-4 and regulated by the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance or Federal law as national banks, savings and loans, or credit unions.
Bar, pub, or tavern. Any establishment selling alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises not otherwise qualified as a restaurant or brew pub.
Basement. Any portion of a building in which the floor elevation is below the finished grade of the adjoining ground.
Bed and breakfast. An owner-occupied dwelling unit in which no more than four rooms are provided for sleeping accommodations for transient guests, for a daily fee and for no more than 14 consecutive days. Breakfast and refreshments are the only food typically served for guests staying at the bed and breakfast. A bed and breakfast is not a hotel or a boarding house.
Brew pub. Any restaurant in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. ยง 3-5-36, for retail consumption on the premises and solely in draft form.
Buffer. An area or portion of a lot set aside for open space and visual screening purposes, to separate different zoning districts, or to separate uses on one property from uses on another property of the same zoning district or a different zoning district.
Building. Any structure for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
Building height. The vertical distance measured from the average finished grade to the highest point of the roof or building.
Catering establishment. An establishment with a commercial kitchen used for preparing food for transportation to off-site events.
CBD store. A retail establishment primarily engaged in the sale of products that contain cannabidiol (CBD).
Chord length. The length of the front property line of a cul-de-sac lot that follows a straight line with end points on the circumference of the cul-de-sac right-of-way.
Church. See place of worship.
City. The City of Winder or its designee.
Clinic. An establishment where patients who are not lodged overnight are admitted for examination and treatment by one or more physicians or dentists.
Club. Buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person or persons for a social, educational, or recreational purpose but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
Commercial outdoor storage. The outdoor storage of vehicles, soil, mulch, stone, lumber, pipe, steel, tires, salvage or recycled materials, and other similar merchandise, material, or equipment.
Comprehensive Plan. The official Joint Comprehensive Plan for Barrow County and the municipalities of Bethlehem, Carl, Statham & Winder, as adopted by Winder City Council, including the official Future Development Map.
Conditional use. A use within certain zoning districts of this Zoning Ordinance which is not permitted as a matter of right, but may be permitted within these districts by the City Council. A conditional use permit shall remain in force until three months after the use is discontinued.
Concentrated animal feeding operation. A facility where animals are kept and raised in confined situations and where feed is brought to the animals rather than the animals grazing or otherwise seeking feed in pastures or fields.
Consignment store. Any retail establishment primarily engaged in the sale of goods on consignment, not otherwise meeting the definition of pawn shop.
Copy, print, or mailing shop. A retail location offering photocopying, small batch printing, office supplies, mailing and packaging services, and similar goods and services to walk-in customers.
Cottage court. A group of detached single-family dwelling units organized around a shared courtyard.
Council. The Mayor and City Council Members of the City of Winder, Georgia. The word Council is synonymous with City Council.
Craft manufacturing. The use of hand-operated tools for the manufacturing of products or parts, including their design, processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging. Craft manufacturing may also include the incidental storage, sale, and distribution of said products or parts. Craft manufacturing specifically includes, but is not limited to, the manufacturing of electronic goods, food and bakery products, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, printmaking, household appliances, leather products, jewelry and clothing, soap and cosmetics, metal work, furniture or cabinets, glass or ceramics, and paper. No equipment or process may be used that creates, without limitation, noise, dust, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference detectable to the normal senses, off the premises.
Cul-de-sac lot. Any lot fronting primarily on a cul-de-sac turnaround or any right-of-way having a curve radius of 60 feet or less.
Day care center. A firm, partnership, corporation, individual, or other business entity, licensed by the State of Georgia as a day care facility, providing care for more than six children not related by blood or marriage or not the legal wards or foster children of the attendant adult or adults.
DBH (diameter at breast height). The widest cross sectional dimension of a tree trunk measured at 4 feet above the ground or at a point below 4 feet for multi-trunk species, but in no case less than 6 inches above the ground.
Distribution center or warehouse. A facility involved in the storage or movement of goods. Goods are generally delivered to other firms or the final consumer with little on-site sales activity to customers.
Drive-through facility. A facility at which the customer is served while sitting in a vehicle.
Dry cleaning establishment or laundromat. A retail location offering dry cleaning or laundering services to walk-in customers, or where washers and driers are provided for use by walk-in customers.
Dwelling, single-family detached. A residential building with a permanent foundation, other than a manufactured home, and designed for and used by one Family.
Dwelling, two-family. A building which contains two dwelling units. The floor area of each unit must not be 20% more or less than the floor area of the other unit. The floor area of each unit must not be less than the minimum required floor area.
Dwelling unit. One or more rooms located within a building and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to be used by one family for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating purposes.
Dwelling, multi-family. A building or portion thereof designed for three or more dwelling units, with the number of families in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided, and not otherwise meeting the definition of townhouse or two-family dwelling.
Family. A person living alone, or any of the following groups living together as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit and sharing common living, sleeping, cooking and eating facilities:
1.
Any number of persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, guardianship, foster or other duly authorized custodial relationship; or
2.
A maximum of four unrelated persons; or
3.
Two unrelated persons and any parents or children related to either.
Feed manufacturing. An industrial facility for the processing and manufacturing of animal feed.
Fitness facility or gym. A commercial establishment that provides services or facilities that assist patrons in improving their physical condition or appearance.
Flood hazard area. The area possibly threatened by periodic flooding as determined by various data, including maps provided by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, United States Soil Conservation Service, Army Corps of Engineers, Federal Emergency Management Agency, or hydrological studies utilizing generally accepted engineering practices. Flood hazard areas shall include all lands underneath a permanent body of water, such as a lake, pond, river, and stream, and all land within the limits of a flood hazard area having a 100-year return frequency.
Floor area, gross. The total number of square feet of floor area in a building determined by horizontal measurements between the exterior faces of walls, excluding basement areas, unfinished attics, porches, carports, and garages.
Game room. Any business in which amusement machines, coin-operated or fee-paid mechanical, electronic or other similar devices primarily manufactured for amusement and entertainment purposes or otherwise, are available for the entertainment of the public, and where the proceeds from the operation of said amusement machines consists of 50% or more of the gross revenues of said business, or in which there exist more than eight such machines or more than two pool or billiard tables.
General retail. A facility involved in the sale, lease, or rental of new or used products to the general public.
Government building. Any building owned by the City of Winder, Barrow County, any County or City, the State of Georgia, or the United States government.
Greenhouse, nursery, or landscape service. An establishment with greenhouses or areas where plants are grown for sale or distribution, or where landscaping equipment is stored for use off site.
Group home. A dwelling unit containing up to four unrelated persons who are mentally or physically impaired who are protected under the Fair Housing Act, including any support or supervisory personnel or family members who reside at the facility. The term mental or physical impairment includes conditions such as blindness, hearing impairment, mobility impairment, HIV infection, mental retardation, alcoholism, drug addiction, chronic fatigue, learning disability, head injury, and mental illness. Current users of illegal controlled substances, persons convicted for illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance, sex offenders, and juvenile offenders are not considered to be mentally or physically impaired under the Fair Housing Act.
Group living. Residential occupancy of a structure by a group of people that does not meet the definition of a family. Generally, group living facilities have a common eating area for residents, and residents may receive care or training. Group living includes assisted living facilities, independent living facilities, nursing homes, personal care homes, group homes, hospice, and similar uses.
Guest quarters. A single non-commercial lodging unit, accessory to an owner-occupied single-family dwelling, either within the dwelling or on the same lot as the dwelling.
Home occupation. Any business, profession, occupation, trade, or activity conducted within a dwelling or its accessory building, which is clearly incidental to the residential use, which is conducted by a person or family residing on the premises, and which does not change the essential residential character of the building.
Hospital. A facility providing health services and medical or surgical care to persons suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, and other abnormal physical or mental conditions, licensed by the State of Georgia, including facilities such as laboratories, outpatient facilities, or training facilities that are an integral part of the facility.
Hotel. A facility containing seven or more guest rooms in which short-term sleeping accommodations are provided for compensation.
Impervious surface. Any road, driveway, parking area, building, swimming pool, concrete, pavement, rooftop landscape, or other impermeable material covering the natural land surface which impedes the free passage of water, air, or nutrients through the soil to the natural watershed, aquifer, or water zone below the surface. For an uncovered deck with drainage spaces between the deck boards and that is located over a pervious surface, 50 percent of the horizontal area of the deck is included in the measurement of impervious surface.
Impound lot. A facility used for the storage of non-consensual towing by the act of towing improperly parked or trespassing on private property, at the request of the property owner or their authorized agent, without prior consent or authorization of the owner or operator of the vehicle and in which a fee is required to release the vehicle.
Kennel, commercial. Any location which provides board and care for profit for domestic animals but not livestock.
Kennel, non-commercial. Any location upon which more than six domestic animals but not livestock are kept as pets, or otherwise not for profit.
LED strip lighting. Any lighting using LED technology to attract attention and typically applied as a row or ribbon of lights to buildings, windows, or glass doors as accent lighting.
Light manufacturing. A facility conducting light manufacturing operations within a fully enclosed building and not meeting the definition of craft manufacturing. Light manufacturing includes but is not limited the following:
1.
Clothing, textile, or apparel manufacturing;
2.
Food manufacturing;
3.
Facilities engaged in the assembly or manufacturing of scientific measuring instruments; semiconductor and related devices, including, but not limited to, clocks, integrated circuits, jewelry, medical, musical instruments, photographic or optical instruments or timing instruments;
4.
Pharmaceutical or medical supply manufacturing;
5.
Sheet metal, welding, machine shop, tool repair;
6.
Stone, clay, glass, or concrete products;
7.
Woodworking, cabinet makers, or furniture manufacturing.
Live/work. Non-residential activity conducted wholly within a dwelling unit that allows employees, customers, clients, or patrons to visit.
Lot of record. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded by the Barrow County Clerk of Superior Court; or a parcel of land, the deed of which has been recorded by the same office as of the effective date of this ordinance.
Lot coverage. The area of a lot occupied by all impervious surface, expressed as a percentage of the gross area of the lot.
Lot, corner. A lot which abuts the intersection of two public streets or is bounded on two or more adjacent sides by public street lines.
Lot line. A boundary of a lot. Lot line is synonymous with property line.
Lot frontage. The linear distance along which a lot abuts a public right-of-way or prescriptive easement for public access.
Lot width. The distance between the side lot lines as measured at the front setback.
Lot, through. A lot, other than a corner lot, having frontage on more than one public street, or a corner lot having frontage on three or more public streets.
Manufactured home. A single-family dwelling constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401-5426) and bears an insignia issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
Media production facility. A facility in which video or audio content is created and/or recorded, whether for live broadcasting or for recording, and including television and radio stations, recording studios, and film studios.
Net useable acres. The total acreage of any parcel or combined parcels of land to be developed as a single development, less the sum of the total number of acres contained in the 100-year flood hazard area, wetlands, the total number of acres contained in rights-of-way for roads, and the total number of acres contained in detention or retention ponds to be constructed.
Nonconforming structure. Any structure lawfully constructed at the time of the effective date of this ordinance, or at the time of the effective date of an amendment to this zoning ordinance, which does not conform with the regulations of this zoning ordinance, including the district in which it is situated.
Nonconforming use. Any building or lot lawfully occupied by a use at the time of the effective date of this ordinance, or at the time of the effective date of an amendment to this zoning ordinance, which does not conform with this zoning ordinance, including the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
Nonconforming lot. A lot of record that does not conform to the lot requirements of the applicable zoning district, but which was a conforming lot of record prior to the effective date of this ordinance or an amendment to this ordinance.
Outdoor recreation facility. A commercial facility providing regularly scheduled recreation activities that primarily take place outdoors or within outdoor structures. Includes the following: extreme sports facility (such as BMX, skateboarding, or roller blading), outdoor amusements (such as batting cage, golf driving range, miniature golf, or water park), outdoor sports field or court, and shooting range.
Package store. A business for which more than 75% of the monthly gross income comes from the sale of alcoholic beverages for off-site consumption.
Pain clinic. A clinic where more than 50% of the patients receive Schedule II or III controlled substances to treat chronic pain.
Parking space, off-street. An enclosed or unenclosed space, other than a driveway or loading area, used exclusively for the temporary storage of a vehicle and directly connected with a street or alley by a driveway.
Pawn shop. A business involved in any part of the pledge, pawn, or exchange of any goods, wares, merchandise, or any kind of personal property or title as security for the repayment of money lent.
Personal service. A facility providing personal or repair services to the general public, including animal care; barber shop; beauty or hair salon; day care center; dry cleaning establishment or laundromat; copy, print, or mailing shop; food catering; fortune telling; funeral home or crematory; massage therapist; nail salon; photography studio; repair of personal goods; tailor or upholsterer; and tattoo artist and/or body piercing establishment.
Place of worship. A facility that is primarily intended for conducting organized religious services. Associated accessory uses include, but are not limited to, schools, meeting halls, indoor and outdoor recreational facilities, rectories, day care centers, nursing homes, counseling centers, and commercial kitchens.
Porch. A raised and not fully enclosed structure that is attached to and forms a covered entrance to and/or exit from a building.
Principal building. A building or structure in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which the principal building is situated.
Produce stand. A roadside stand for the sale of agricultural products that does not exceed 500 square feet in floor area.
Recreational vehicle (RV). A motorized vehicle, designed and/or maintained for use as a temporary dwelling or sleeping place exclusively for travel or recreation purposes, having no foundation other than wheels or jacks.
Recreational vehicle (RV) park. A parcel of land of at least five acres which is used solely for the rental or lease of lots or areas for recreational vehicles.
Renewable energy facility. A facility used for generating electricity with solar panels, wind turbines, geothermal sources, and similar devices.
Repair of personal goods. An establishment where small personal goods are repaired on site. Personal goods include jewelry, clocks, small appliances, bicycles, computers, cellular telephones, electronics, canvas products, office equipment, musical instruments, radios, shoes, watches, televisions, or similar items.
Research and development. A facility focused primarily on the research and development of new products. Research and development includes laboratories, offices, and other facilities used for research and development; prototype production facilities that manufacture a limited amount of a product in order to fully investigate its merits; and pilot plants used to test manufacturing processes planned for use in production elsewhere.
Restaurant. A business which regularly prepares and serves food and drink for on- or off-premise consumption and which derives at least 50% of its monthly gross income from the sale of prepared food. A restaurant is not a catering establishment.
Riding stable. A facility used primarily for the care, breeding, boarding, rental, riding, or training of horses or for the teaching of equestrian skills.
Salvage yard/junkyard. Any use involving the parking, storage, or disassembly of vehicles and/or machinery; the storage, sale, or resale of used auto parts, used tires, scrap iron, or metal; used plumbing fixtures, old stoves, refrigerators, or other old household appliances; used brick, wood, or other building/structural materials; or used paper, rags, or other scrap materials. These uses shall be considered salvage yards/junkyards regardless of whether these operations are conducted inside a building, or in conjunction with or accessory to other uses on the premises.
School, private (K-12). An educational facility having a curriculum at least equal to a public school, but not operated by the Barrow County School System.
Seasonal activity or temporary event. An event open to the general public, including fairs, carnivals, temporary livestock exhibits, temporary sales events, flea markets, parades, marches, rallies, assemblies, concerts, temporary camping, and festivals.
Self-service storage facility. A facility providing independent bays and/or self-contained units which are leased to or owned by individuals exclusively for storage of personal property.
Setback. A line, established by yard requirements, between which and any property line no building, structure, or part thereof may be erected.
Short-term rental. An accommodation for transient guests where, in exchange for compensation, an entire residential dwelling unit is provided for lodging for a period of time not to exceed thirty days in one year. For the purposes of this definition, a residential dwelling shall include all housing types and shall exclude group living, bed and breakfasts, and hotels.
Sign. See definitions contained in Article X of this Appendix.
Stoop. A small, raised, covered platform that serves as an entrance to a building.
Structure. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the ground. The term includes tents, bleachers, gasoline pumps, walls, fences, signs, antennas site-built buildings, industrialized buildings, or manufactured homes.
Subdivision. The division or redivision of a lot, parcel, or tract of land into two or more lots for any purpose.
Temporary outdoor display. The temporary outdoor display of products actively available for sale. Outdoor display does not include the storage or sale of any items identified under the definition of commercial outdoor storage. Outdoor display also does not include the outdoor placement of propane gas storage racks, ice storage bins, and soft drink or similar vending machines.
Temporary storage container. A portable, weather resistant container holding 200 cubic feet or more of storage capacity that is designed and used for the temporary storage or shipment of household furniture, clothing, and other household goods, excluding refuse, and is transported by truck or trailer to desired locations for drop off and retrieval.
Townhouse. Three or more dwelling units where each unit is separated vertically by a common side fire wall. Units cannot be vertically mixed.
Travel trailer. Any vehicle or similar portable structure mounted on wheels, designed and intended primarily for short-term occupancy, for dwelling or sleeping or other purposes and not exceeding 30 feet in length.
Use. The purpose or purposes for which land or a building is designed, arranged, intended, or for which said land or building is occupied, maintained, or leased.
Utility facility, major. Public or private infrastructure, including, but not limited to, water, sewer, gas, electric, telephone, Internet, cable and other similar services serving the general community and possibly having on-site personnel. Major utilities includes, but is not limited to, the following: electrical substation, electric or gas generation plant, and water or sanitary sewer treatment plant.
Utility facility, minor. Public or private infrastructure, including, but not limited to, water, sewer, gas, electric, telephone, Internet, cable and other similar services serving a limited area with no on-site personnel and less than 6 feet in height. Minor utilities includes, but is not limited to, the following: on-site stormwater retention or detention facility; neighborhood-serving cable, telephone, gas or electric facility; and water or wastewater pump or lift station.
Variance. A minimal variation of the terms of this Zoning Ordinance which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this Zoning Ordinance.
Yard. An open space situated between a lot line and any principal or accessory structure from the ground upward, unoccupied, unpaved, and unobstructed except for trees, plant material, fences, and driveways.
Yard, front. The yard extending the full width of the lot between any lot line abutting an existing or proposed right-of-way and any principal or accessory structure.
Yard, rear. The yard extending the full width of the lot between the rear lot line and any principal or accessory structure, excluding the area of a corner lot that meets the definition of front yard.
Yard, side. The yard situated between the side lot line and any principal or accessory structure on the lot extending from the required front yard to the required rear yard, excluding the area of a corner lot that meets the definition of front yard.
Yard, side street. For corner or through lots, the yard situated between the side right-of-way line and any principal or accessory structure on the lot extending from the required front yard to the required rear yard.
Zoning Administrator. The City Administrator or their designee.
Zoning district. Area of zoned property within the City of Winder, Georgia, and shown on the Official Zoning Map which is part of this Zoning Ordinance.
Zoning ordinance. The zoning and land use regulations contained in this Zoning Ordinance and adopted for use within the City of Winder that constitute a Zoning Ordinance within the meaning of O.C.G.A. ยง 36-66-1 et seq.
