Chapter 29 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— General powers of taxation, § 1-3(1), (2), (28); property taxes, § 4-10 et seq.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; alcoholic beverages, ch. 3; licenses and business regulations, ch. 13; special sales, ch. 26; vehicles for hire, ch. 30.
State Law reference— Uniform property tax administration and equalization, Ga. Code Ann., § 48-5-260 et seq.; municipal taxation, § 48-5-350 et seq.; administration of local taxes, § 48-5-380 et seq.; franchises, § 48-5-420 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 29-1. - Date for closing tax books.
The city clerk shall close the tax books of the city on the day fixed by the mayor and council and shall make a complete list of all tax delinquents.
(Code 1968, § 23-1)
Charter reference— Tax bills, § 4-12.
State Law reference— Tax executions, Ga. Code Ann., § 48-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 29-2. - Issuance of execution against delinquent taxpayer.
Within one (1) day after the closing of tax books as provided in the preceding section, the city clerk shall issue against each delinquent taxpayer a writ of fieri facias for the amount of tax due the city, and shall place the same within said time in the hands of the chief of police for levy and execution upon the property of said delinquent taxpayer.
(Code 1968, § 23-2)
Charter reference— Authority for above section, §§ 1—3(2), 4-13.
Sec. 29-3. - Levy, seizure of property of delinquent taxpayer.
The chief of police, within three (3) days after a writ of fieri facias has been placed in his hands pursuant to the preceding section, shall make a levy upon sufficient property to make the sum of said writ, including costs, first giving the delinquent the right to point out property upon which to make levy, and upon the failure of said delinquent to point out any property upon which to levy, said chief of police shall seize any property found belonging to such delinquent in an amount sufficient to satisfy the said amount due.
(Code 1968, § 23-3)
Charter reference— Collection of delinquent taxes, § 4-13.
Sec. 29-4. - Advertising sale of property.
Advertisement of sale of property levied upon as provided in the preceding section shall be begun during the first week of December of each year.
(Code 1968, § 23-4)
Sec. 29-5. - Collection of costs from delinquent taxpayer.
Costs incurred in connection with execution of writs of fieri facias as provided in this chapter shall be collected from each delinquent after the closing of the tax books as provided herein.
(Code 1968, § 23-5)
Sec. 29-6. - Failure to file annual return of gross income—Revocation of license.
Any person refusing to comply with the provisions of sections 29-8 and 29-9 shall be subject to having his business license revoked by action of the mayor and council.
(Code 1968, § 23-9)
Sec. 29-7. - Same—Penalty levied.
A penalty of fifteen (15) per cent shall be assessed against all taxpayers who do not make a return under sections 29-8 and 29-9 by the expiration date prescribed therein.
(Code 1968, § 23-8)
Sec. 29-8. - City to furnish forms for annual returns of gross income.
The city shall furnish to each person conducting business within the city, including all manufacturing enterprises within the city, not later than January fifth of each year, blanks upon which such person may conveniently show the gross income of his business for the preceding year.
(Code 1968, § 23-6)
Sec. 29-9. - Duty to file annual return of gross income.
Each person conducting a business of any kind furnished with the form described in the preceding section shall return the same to the city clerk not later than January tenth of each year, fully filled out, showing his gross income for the preceding year. Said blank shall be duly signed by the person, member of the partnership or president of the corporation conducting such business enterprise.
(Code 1968, § 23-7)
Sec. 29-10. - Solar energy tax exemption.
(a)
From and after the date of adoption of this section, there shall be exempt from ad valorem taxation for municipal purposes, all of the value of certain tangible property used in solar energy heating or cooling and all of the value of certain tangible property consisting only of machinery and equipment directly used in the manufacture of solar energy heating or cooling systems.
(b)
For the purposes of this section, solar energy heating or cooling systems shall mean and include all controls, tanks, pumps, heat exchangers, and other equipment used directly and primarily for the conversion of solar energy for heating or cooling, but shall not include walls, roofs or equipment that would ordinarily be contained in a similar structure not designed or modified to use solar energy for heating or cooling.
(c)
For the purposes of this exemption, the term "heating" shall also mean and include water heating and drying.
(d)
This section shall be repealed and shall be null and void effective July 1, 1986; provided, that should the provisions related to this exemption in article VII, section I, paragraph IV, of the Georgia Constitution of 1976, be extended beyond July 1, 1986, this section shall continue in full force and effect until the expiration of the authority for such exemptions under the Georgia Constitution.
(Ord. (2-W-82) of 2-2-82)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2-W-82 of Feb. 2, 1982, amended the 1968 Code by addition of § 23-33, which has been included in this Code as § 29-10, at the direction of the city.
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5.
Sec. 29-11. - Payments by credit card.
All sums due the city including, but not limited to, occupation taxes, fines, forfeitures, penalties, license fees, service fees, utility fees, application fees, permit fees and registration fees, may be paid by the use of credit cards. The city administrator, with the approval of the mayor, shall establish the procedures for acceptance of credit card payments for amounts due the city. The mayor is authorized to enter into agreements with credit card issuers to facilitate the acceptance of credit card payments by the city.
(Ord. (W-2-11) of 5-3-11)
Sec. 29-12. - Agreements with credit card companies.
A credit card agreement may provide for the acceptance of the credit card payments from the credit card company at a discount from the face amount of the payment or for the withholding of administrative fees from the face amount of the payment. Such discounted fee is granted in exchange for the improved governmental cash flow, reduction of administrative expenses and increased public convenience as a result of credit card payments.
(Ord. (W-2-11) of 5-3-11)
Sec. 29-13. - Convenience fee.
A convenience fee equal to three (3) percent of the face amount of the payment to the city shall be imposed upon any person making a payment by credit card.
(Ord. (W-2-11) of 5-3-11)
Sec. 29-14. - Cancellation of agreements by city.
Any agreement with a credit card issuer for the acceptance or payments via credit shall contain a provision that the city may cancel the agreement at any time.
(Ord. (W-2-11) of 5-3-11)
Sec. 29-15. - Liability for underlying obligation; accrual of penalties, interest and fees.
(a)
No person making payment by credit card to the city is relieved from liability for the underlying obligation except to the extent that the city actually receives final payment of the obligation in cash or its equivalent. If final payment is not made by the credit card issuer or other guarantor of payment in the credit card transaction, the underlying obligation for the money due is not extinguished. All applicable penalties, interest and collection fees on the unpaid amount shall be due from the person making the payment by credit card.
(b)
Such penalties, interest and fees on an unpaid amount shall accrue from the date the unpaid obligation was first due under the applicable statute or ordinance. The city shall follow the collection procedures for the unpaid amount that would have otherwise been applicable had the credit card payment to been attempted.
(Ord. (W-2-11) of 5-3-11)
Sec. 29-16. - Library assessment.
An annual assessment shall be made on each taxable parcel of real property within the city limits to provide for the operation and maintenance of a public library. The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to set the amount of the annual assessment from year to year as part of and upon adoption of the annual budget.
(Ord. ( W-2-18 ) of 6-5-18)
Secs. 29-17—29-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. W-13-93, adopted Oct. 5, 1993, contained provisions for art. II, and designated as §§ 29-11—29-25. In order to maintain the numbering system of the Code, such sections have been redesignated as §§ 29-11—29-25. In order to maintain the numbering system of the Code, such sections have been redesignated as §§ 29-21—29-35, at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 29-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Due date means from the twentieth day after the close of the monthly period for which the hereunder tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy, by one (1) or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodging house, rooming house, dormitory, turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, public club or private club, containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. It does not include any jail, hospital, nursing home, retirement home, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the city, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of the premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating the hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel for at least ten (10) consecutive days next preceding the date.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, except the United States of America, the state, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax provided in this article.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupancy, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided by this article.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93)
Sec. 29-22. - Findings; distribution.
(a)
The city hereby finds, determines and declares that:
(1)
The encouragement, development, growth and expansion of tourism and conventions within the city are important to the economy of the city and to the general welfare of its citizens;
(2)
The city should be a tourism and convention center of the state and should have the financial ability to attract and promote tourism and conventions, and to provide the necessary public facilities to compete in the domestic and international travel and convention markets; and
(3)
The city believes the tourism and convention industry should pay for the delivery of the services and facilities requested by them to promote and attract visitors and convention delegates.
(b)
In accordance with the findings enumerated in subsection (a), it is hereby declared that in each fiscal year, the amount of tax collected under this article shall be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(4.4).
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93; Ord. (W-15-00) of 11-7-00)
Sec. 29-23. - Imposition and rate of tax.
There is hereby levied and there shall be paid a tax of seven (7) per cent of the rent for every occupancy of a guest room in a hotel in the city. The tax imposed by this section shall be paid upon any occupancy on and after January 1, 2001, although the occupancy is had pursuant to a contract, lease or other arrangement made prior to that date.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93; Ord. No. W-15-00, 11-7-00)
Sec. 29-24. - Collection of tax by operator.
Every operator maintaining a hotel in this city and renting guest rooms in this city, not exempted under section 29-15, shall collect the tax from the occupant.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93)
Sec. 29-25. - Exemptions.
No tax shall be imposed hereunder upon a permanent resident of a hotel room.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93)
Sec. 29-26. - Registration of operator; form and contents; execution; certificates of authority.
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in this city shall immediately register with the city clerk on a form provided by the clerk. Persons engaged in such business shall register not later than thirty (30) days after the effective date of the article from which this section derives [January 1, 1994]. The privilege of registration after the imposition of the tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of tax, on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of registration. The registration shall set forth the name under which the person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of the place or places of business and any other information which would facilitate the collection of the tax as the city clerk may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in the case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer thereof. The city clerk shall, after registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93)
Sec. 29-27. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes hereunder shall be due and payable to the city monthly on or before the twentieth day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period as set forth in section 29-11.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93)
Sec. 29-28. - Information on return.
On or before the twentieth day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the city clerk showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as may be required by the city clerk.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93)
Sec. 29-29. - Operator;s deduction.
Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and payment of the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-52.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93)
Sec. 29-30. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax. If the city clerk is not satisfied with the return or returns of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any person, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One (1) or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one (1) or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of one (1) per cent per month, or fraction thereof, from the due date of taxes.
(c)
Service of notice. The city clerk shall give to the operator written notice of the determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail. If served by mail the service shall be addressed to the operator at the address as it appears in the records of the city clerk. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by addressee.
(d)
Time limitation on mailing notice. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three (3) years after the twentieth day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three (3) years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93)
Sec. 29-31. - Failure to file return.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts or total rentals. If any person fails to make a return, the city clerk shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person, or as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in this city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the city clerk. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in section 29-20.
(b)
Interest. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of one (1) per cent per month, or fraction thereof, from the twentieth day of the month following the monthly period, for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93)
Sec. 29-32. - Administration.
(a)
Authority of the city clerk. The city clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed by this article.
(b)
Records required from operators. Every operator renting guest rooms in this city to a person shall keep any records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the city clerk may require.
(c)
Examination of records and facilities. The city clerk may examine or cause to be examined the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms to a person and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(d)
Filing of reports. In administration of the provisions of this article, the city clerk may require the filing of reports by any persons or class of persons having in the person's possession or custody information relating to rentals of guest rooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the clerk when required by the clerk and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date of occupancy, and such other information as the clerk may require.
(Ord. (W-13-93) of 10-5-93)
Sec. 29-33. - Penalties.
(a)
Time limitation. At any time within three (3) years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable and at any time within three (3) years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the city clerk may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the city to collect the amount delinquent together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorneys' fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Successor to withhold amount due. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells the business or quits the business, the successors or assigns thereof shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase price to cover the amount due the city until the former owner produces a receipt from the city clerk showing payment or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
Sec. 29-34. - Liability of successor.
(a)
If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold the purchase price as required, he shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by the purchaser to the extent of the purchase price.
(b)
Credit for overpayment. Whenever the amount of any tax or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city under this article, it may be offset by the city clerk. If the operator or person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the city clerk, the operator shall have three (3) years from the date of payment to file claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the city clerk, the excess amount paid the city may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid, or by administrators or executors thereof.
