DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 23-11. - Purpose and policy.
This article sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly owned treatment works for the city and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 United States Code section 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 Code of Federal Regulations Part 403). The objectives of this article are:
(1)
To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
(2)
Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with the publicly owned treatment works;
(3)
To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
(4)
To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge from the publicly owned treatment works;
(5)
To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of operation, maintenance and improvement of the publicly owned treatment works; and
(6)
To enable the city to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and any other federal and state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is subject.
This article shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment works. The article authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; provides for monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96)
Sec. 23-12. - Administration.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the utilities director shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this article. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the utilities director may be delegated by the utilities director to other city personnel.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § I)
Sec. 23-13. - Abbreviations.
The following abbreviations, when used in this article, shall have the designated meanings:
BOD - Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR - Code of Federal Regulations
COD - Chemical oxygen demand
EPA - U. S. Environmental Protection Agency
gpd - gallons per day
mg/l - milligrams per liter
NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW - publicly owned treatment works
RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC - Standard industrial classification
TSS - Total suspended solids
U. S. C. - United States Code
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96)
Sec. 23-14. - Definitions.
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this article have their customary dictionary definitions. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future tense. The word "may" is discretionary. The word "shall" is always mandatory and never discretionary. Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and phrases, as used in this article, shall have the meanings hereinafter designated.
Act or the Act. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. section 1251 et seq.
Approval authority. The director of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division (EPD).
Authorized representative of the user.
(1)
If the user is a corporation:
a.
The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
b.
The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or operation facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit [or general permit {optional}] requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
Average daily flow. The total quantity of liquid tributary to a point divided by the number of days of flow measurement.
Biochemical oxygen demand or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures for five (5) days at twenty (20) degrees centigrade, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
Categorical pretreatment standard or categorical standard. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1317) which apply to a specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405 through 471.
City. The City of Winder, Georgia, or the City Council of Winder, Georgia.
Domestic sewage. Liquid or water-carried waste from bathrooms, toilet rooms, kitchens and home laundries.
Environmental Protection Agency or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
Existing source. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard is thereafter promulgated in accordance with section 307 of the Act.
Extraterritorial service area. All land that lies outside of the city's corporate limits which is serviced or furnished sewer by Winder.
Grab sample. A sample which is taken from a wastestream without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
Indirect discharge or discharge. The introduction of pollutants into the POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act.
Instantaneous maximum allowable discharge limit. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
Interference. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal, and therefore is a cause of a violation of the city's NPDES permit or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more stringent state or local regulations: section 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including title 11, commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
Medical waste. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis wastes.
Natural outlet. Any creek, stream or tributary which at any time transports storm waters, and any pipe or channel discharging to any such drainageway.
New source.
(1)
Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
a.
The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
b.
The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or
c.
The production or wastewater generating processes of the building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should be considered.
(2)
Construction on a site on which an existing source is located results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria of subsection (1)b. or c. above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to existing process or production equipment.
(3)
Construction of a new source as defined under this subsection has commenced if the owner or operator has:
a.
Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite construction program:
1.
Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or equipment; or
2.
Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or
b.
Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this subsection.
Noncontact cooling water. Water used for cooling which does not come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or finished product.
Pass through. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
Peak flow. The maximum rate of flow occurring at any time measured in terms of gallons per normal calendar day of twenty-four (24) hours.
Person. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity or any other legal entity or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental entities.
pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard units.
Pollutant. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
Pretreatment. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
Pretreatment requirements. Any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
Pretreatment standards or standards. Pretreatment standards shall mean prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
Prohibited discharge standards or prohibited discharges. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions appear in section 23-21 of this article.
Properly shredded garbage. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half (½) inch (1.27 centimeters) in any direction.
Publicly owned treatment works or POTW. A "treatment works," as defined by section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1292) which is owned by the city. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
Sanitary sewer. A sewer which is intended to carry only sanitary and acceptable strength industrial wastewaters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
Septic tank. An underground tank in which waste matter is putrefied and decomposed through bacterial action, prior to discharging to an underground tile field.
Septic tank waste. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
Sewage. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing operations, etc.).
Significant industrial user.
(1)
A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
(2)
A user that:
a.
Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown wastewater);
b.
Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five (5) percent of more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or
c.
Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
(3)
Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection (2) has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial user.
Slug load or slug. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in section 23-21 of this article.
Standard industrial classification (SIC) code. A classification pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States Office of Management and Budget.
Storm sewer or storm drain. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
Storm water. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
Suspended solids. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which is removable by laboratory filtering.
User or industrial user. A nondomestic source of indirect discharge.
User charge. A charge levied on users of a publicly owned treatment works for the cost of operation and maintenance of such works.
Utilities director. The person designated by the city to supervise the operation of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this article. The term also means a duly authorized representative of the utilities director.
Wastewater. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW.
Wastewater treatment plant or treatment plant. That portion of the POTW which is designated to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ), of 12-8-20, § II; Ord. (W-4-21) of 11-18-21, § 1)
Sec. 23-15. - Damaging city property.
It shall be a violation of this article for any person to maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment or materials belonging to the city, used for the purpose of making tests or examinations and left upon the premises of a person discharging wastes into the sewers.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96)
Sec. 23-16. - Connection to sewer required.
The owner(s) of all houses, building or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required at the owner(s)' expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article, within ninety (90) days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one hundred (100) feet (30.5 meters) of the property line. Failure to comply with these provisions will constitute the creation of a public nuisance.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96)
Cross reference— Plumbing code, § 5-43 et seq.
Sec. 23-17. - Discharges to natural outlets.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided meeting state and city approval, to any natural outlet within the city.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96)
Sec. 23-18. - Leaving objectionable waste generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, spill, deposit or permit to be deposited in any manner creating unsanitary conditions or creating a public nuisance on public or private property within the city any domestic, trade, industrial or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96)
Sec. 23-19. - Discharge of industrial, commercial waste into storm sewers prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any industrial plant, laundry, hotel or other business having waste matter for disposal to cause, permit, aid or abet the disposal of waste matter into open or storm sewer, but such waste matter shall be discharged through regular sewer connections from said place of business into sanitary sewers at the expense of the owner of such business, subject to inspection of the sanitary department and engineer of the city.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided for violations of this Code or any applicable industrial pretreatment program standards, the continued violation of subsection (a) of this section for as much as ten (10) days by failure or refusal to discharge such waste matter into sanitary sewers shall constitute a public nuisance and make the place of business of such violator subject to condemnation by the city.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96)
Sec. 23-20. - Building sewers and connections.
(a)
No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof.
(b)
There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
(1)
For residential and commercial service; and
(2)
For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
(c)
In either case in the preceding subsection (b), the owner or his agent shall make application on a form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the utilities director. A permit and inspection fee fixed from time to time by the mayor and council shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(d)
Service or tapping charges for sewer connection shall be paid by each property owner or other person granted a permit for such tap or connection as required by the sewer rates as of the date of service.
(e)
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one (1) building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection mentioned in this section.
(f)
Existing building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the utilities director, to meet all requirements of this article.
(g)
The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building code and the plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city.
(h)
No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, unless such connection is approved by the utilities director for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage. No person(s) shall discharge uncontaminated cooling water into the POTW.
(i)
The connection of a building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building code and the plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the utilities director before installation.
(j)
All construction work and related activities under this division shall comply with the regulations and requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
(k)
All urban reuse water pipes shall be color-coded "purple" as standardized by the Utility Protection Center. If more than one manufacturer produces the pipe in solid purple color, a solid color purple pipe will be required. If only one manufacturer produces the solid color purple pipe, a pipe with multiple purple stripes may be approved for use by the review committee.
(l)
When a property owner requests to connect onto sewer, and the property to be served is located in the extraterritorial service area, the property owner shall meet one (1) of the following requirements before construction of sewage lines and connection to the city sewer system shall begin, and such construction or connection shall begin only with the authorization of the city administrator and approval in advance by a formal vote of the mayor and city council:
(1)
If the property is contiguous to the existing limits of the city, the property owner shall petition for annexation of the property to be served by the city prior to commencement of construction or connection of sewage lines; or
(2)
If the property is not contiguous with the existing limits of the city, the property owner shall execute a restrictive covenant consenting to annexation of such property into the city when the property becomes contiguous. The property owner shall also be required to submit a certificate of title to the city attorney's office to verify ownership of the property. The restrictive covenant will be recorded in the property records at the county courthouse and such covenant shall stipulate that if the property becomes contiguous with the existing limits of the city at a future date and the property owner refuses to petition for annexation, the city will have the authority to terminate sewage service.
This requirement for annexation may be waived by the mayor and council at the city's option.
(m)
Should a property owner whose property has been connected to the city sewer system pursuant to the requirements of section 23-20(l)(2) refuse to petition for annexation when their property becomes contiguous with the city limits, or meet any other requirement of section 23-20(l)(2), the city may terminate sewer service and disconnect that property from the city sewer system until such time as a petition for annexation is filed.
(Ord. (7-W-96) of 6-13-96; Ord. (W-4-00) of 6-2-00; Ord. ( (W-5-20) ) of 12-8-20, § I; Ord. (W-4-21) of 11-18-21, §§ 2, 3)
Cross reference— Building code, § 5-18 et seq.; plumbing code, § 5-43 et seq.
