Chapter 28 - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5; underground utility damage prevention, § 5-170 et seq.; requirements for subdivision proposals in flood hazard area, § 9.5-34; gas utility, ch. 11; mobile homes, ch. 14; planning and development, ch, 19; sewers, ch. 23; soil erosion and sedimentation control, ch. 24; streets and sidewalks, ch. 27; water, ch. 31; zoning, app. A,

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - Designation, citation of chapter.
This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the "Land Subdivision Regulations, City of Winder, Georgia."
(Code 1968, § 22-1)
Sec. 28-2. - Definitions.
Except where specifically defined herein, all words used in this chapter shall carry their customary dictionary meanings. For the purpose of this chapter, certain words or terms herein are defined as follows:
Words used in the present tense include the future, and the singular includes the plural. The word "building" includes the word "structure"; the word "shall" is intended to be mandatory.
Corner lot: A lot which abuts two (2) or more streets at their intersection, or upon a curved street, provided that the two (2) sides of the lot intersect to form an interior angle of not more than one hundred and thirty-five (135) degrees.
Cul-de-sac: Generally refers to a dead-end street where there is room for a vehicle to turn at a circular end.
Dead-end street: A street with no outlet at one end.
Master plan: Any part or element of the overall plan for development adopted by the planning commission as provided by the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957, No. 358 as amended.
Street: The term "street" or "streets" means, relates to, and includes streets and avenues, boulevards, roads, highways, expressways, lanes, alleys and other ways.
Subdivider: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity (or agent therefor), that undertakes the activities covered by these regulations. Inasmuch as the subdivision plat is merely a necessary means to the end of assuring a satisfactory development, the term "subdivider" is intended to include the terms "developer" and "builder" even though the persons involved in successive stages of the project may vary.
Subdivision: A subdivision shall be construed to be a division of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, building sites or divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of conveyance, transfer, improvement, sale, legacy or building development, and includes all division of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets, and includes resubdivision, and where appropriate to the context relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or areas subdivided; provided however, that the following are not included within this definition:
(a)
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards set forth in this chapter.
(b)
The division of land into parcels of five (5) acres or more where no new street is involved.
Undisturbed buffer: No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within the buffer and the buffer shall remain on its natural, undisturbed state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, the buffer may be thinned or trimmed of noxious week, noxious plants and like vegetation, as long as protective vegetative cover remains. No trees, other than dead or diseased trees shall be removed from the buffer, but additional trees and plant material may be added to the zone. Dead limbs and branches, trash, litter and like debris may be removed from the buffer at any time. The buffer zone shall be maintained in a natural state and shall not be paved or graded. No building shall be erected or placed in a buffer zone and a buffer zone shall not be used for parking, storage, loading, animal pens or any other use. Unless otherwise specified by the Winder City Council, all undisturbed buffers shall have a minimum width of twenty-five (25) feet.
(Code 1968, § 22-2; Ord. No. W-07-04, 12-7-04)
Sec. 28-3. - Authority for provisions.
This chapter is enacted in pursuance of the authority granted by the Georgia General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957, No. 358, as amended.
(Code 1968, § 22-3)
Sec. 28-4. - Scope of provisions.
The provisions of this chapter shall govern all subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1968, § 22-4)
Sec. 28-5. - Purposes of provisions.
The provisions of this chapter have been enacted for the following purposes:
(a)
To encourage the development of an economically sound and stable community;
(b)
To assure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land developments;
(c)
To assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments;
(d)
To assure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in new land developments and the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational and other public purposes;
(e)
To assure, in general, the wise development of areas in harmony with the master plan of the community; and
(f)
To secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform procedures and standards for observance both of the subdivider and the planning commission.
(Code 1968, § 22-5)
Sec. 28-6. - Compliance with chapter.
Any subdivision that fails to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be disapproved by the planning commission.
(Code 1968, § 22-6)
Sec. 28-7. - Effect of conflict of provisions.
When the provisions of this chapter specify more restrictive standards than required by any other statute, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
(Code 1968, § 22-7)
Sec. 28-8. - Approval prerequisite to recording of plat.
No plat of a subdivision lying within the corporate limits of the municipality shall be recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county unless it has been given final approval by the city council and the description by metes and bounds on the instrument of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from such requirements. The recording of a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the city council shall be a misdemeanor.
(Code 1968, § 22-8; Ord. (W-6-21) of 12-27-21, § XI)
Sec. 28-9. - Approval prerequisite to sale or transfer of lots.
The subdivider of any land within the municipality who transfers or sells or agrees to sell or negotiates to sell such land by reference to or exhibition of or by other use of a plat of subdivision of such land before such plat has been approved by the city council and recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1968, § 22-9; Ord. (W-6-21) of 12-27-21, § XII)
Sec. 28-10. - Approval prerequisite to acceptance, improvement, maintenance of street.
No public authority shall accept, improve or maintain any street not shown on an approved and recorded final plat unless such street has received the legal status of a public street.
(Code 1968, § 22-10)
Sec. 28-11. - Restrictions upon issuance of building permits, erection of building or other structure.
No building permit shall be issued and no building or other structure shall be erected on any lot within the municipality unless the street giving access to said lot is a public street. Any building erected in violation of these provisions is an unlawful structure and the building inspector, city attorney, or other agent of the city shall enjoin such erection or cause the building to be vacated or removed.
(Code 1968, § 22-11)
Sec. 28-12. - Classification of streets by function.
For the purposes of this chapter, streets shall be classified by function as follows:
(a)
Major streets: Those indicated as such as on the major street plan map, which serve primarily as major traffic ways for travel through and within the city.
(b)
Collector streets: Those streets which serve as feeders to a major street, as collectors of traffic from minor streets, and for circulation around a residential neighborhood.
(c)
Minor streets: Those streets provided for the primary purpose of furnishing access to abutting properties.
(Code 1968, § 22-12)
Secs. 28-13—28-27. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLATS

Sec. 28-28. - Review committee.
A review committee consisting of the director of planning, city building inspector, the city engineer, the city water/sewer distribution superintendent, the city street superintendent and the city gas superintendent is hereby created. The mayor may appoint additional members as deemed necessary. The purpose of the review committee is as follows:
(1)
To assist the city council in their review of preliminary subdivision plats as set forth in section 28-32 of this chapter.
(2)
To assist the mayor in his/her review of preliminary subdivision plats as set forth in section 28-45 of this chapter.
(3)
To make recommendations to the mayor and council concerning any appeal filed under section 28-46 of this chapter or variances filed under section 28-101 of this chapter.
(4)
To prepare and execute certificates of improvement as set forth under section 28-38 of this chapter.
(5)
To perform such other duties as required by the mayor and council, including the review and approval of street lighting plans.
(Ord. (W-6-98) of 11-3-98; Ord. (W-6-21) of 12-27-21, § XIII)
Editor's note— Sections 28-45 and 28-46 have been repealed by the city.
Sec. 28-29. - Preapplication consultation.
Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land within the city is proposed, the subdivider is urged to consult early and informally with the city clerk. The subdivider may submit sketch plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and its vicinity, and the proposed layout and development of the subdivision. The purpose of the preapplication review being to facilitate the subsequent preparation of plans, no fees shall be charged for this review.
(Code 1968, § 22-23; Ord. (W-8-95) of 11-7-95, § VII)
Sec. 28-30. - Submission of preliminary plat.
Following preapplication consultation in connection with a proposed land subdivision, the subdivider shall submit to the planning commission the following:
(a)
Plat, other documents. The preliminary plat and other documents as specified hereinafter;
(b)
Letter. A letter requesting review and approval of the preliminary plat and giving the name and address of a person to whom the notice of a hearing by the planning commission on the preliminary plat shall be sent; and
(c)
Filing fee. A preliminary plat filing fee of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) plus three dollars ($3.00) per lot.
(Code 1968, § 22-24; Ord. (W-6-98) of 11-3-98)
Sec. 28-31. - Notice, hearing on preliminary plat.
The planning board shall hold a public hearing on the preliminary plat of a subdivision. Notice of time and place of such hearing shall be advertised in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least fifteen (15) days before such public hearing is held.
(Code 1968, § 22-25; Ord. (W-6-98) of 11-3-98)
Sec. 28-32. - Action on preliminary plat.
The planning commission shall review the preliminary plat of a subdivision for conformance to the rules and regulations of this chapter, and the requirements of the zoning ordinance, and shall take into consideration the general requirements of the community and the best use of the land to be subdivided. The preliminary plat may be approved, disapproved or approved subject to modifications. The commission may indicate the specific changes required, and the amount of public improvements or the amount of the performance bond therefor which it will require as a prerequisite to the approval of the final plat.
(Code 1968, § 22-26)
Sec. 28-33. - Failure to act on preliminary plat.
If action by the planning commission is not taken within ninety (90) days of the date of submission, the preliminary plat of a subdivision shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval issued on demand. The subdivider, however, may waive the ninety-day time and consent to an extension of time.
(Code 1968, § 22-27; Ord. (W-6-98) of 11-3-98)
Sec. 28-34. - Effect to tentative and conditional approval of preliminary plat.
Tentative and conditional approval of a preliminary plat of a subdivision shall not constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of approval of the layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of the final plat which will be submitted for approval of the planning commission and for recording upon fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations and the stipulations in the conditional approval, if any.
(Code 1968, § 22-28)
Sec. 28-35. - Expiration of tentative approval of preliminary plat.
The tentative approval of a preliminary subdivision plat shall expire after three (3) years unless an extension of time is granted by the planning commission.
After three (3) years have passed, any new construction will be subject to approval by the review committee in accordance with the current city ordinance.
(1)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within twelve (12) months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(2)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended after work has commenced, the permit shall expire twelve (12) months after the date that work ceased. In cases of permit expiration due to abandonment or suspension of work, the landowner shall be required to restore topography to its original contours and restore vegetation as far as practicable.
(3)
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the city engineer no later than thirty (30) days prior to expiration.
(Code 1968, § 22-29; Ord. (W-5-00) of 6-2-00)
Sec. 28-36. - Specifications for preliminary plat.
The preliminary plat of a subdivision shall meet the following requirements:
(a)
Number of copies. Three (3) copies of the preliminary plat shall be furnished by the subdivider, one copy to be retained in the files of the planning commission, one copy to be reviewed by appropriate city and county officials and the postmaster, and one copy to be returned to the subdivider.
(b)
Form. The preliminary plat shall be drawn clearly and legibly at a scale of one inch equals one hundred (100) feet or larger. The sheet size shall be not less than sixteen (16) by twenty-four (24) inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet, it may be shown on more than one street with an index map on a separate sheet of the same size.
(Code 1968, § 22-30)
Sec. 28-37. - Data required on preliminary plat.
The preliminary plat of a subdivision shall contain the following information:
(a)
Proposed subdivision name or identifying title and acreage to be subdivided.
(b)
Name and address of owner of record, subdivider, and owners of adjoining property.
(c)
Date and north point.
(d)
Contours at intervals not greater than five (5) feet and such street cross sections and profiles as may be required by the planning commission.
(e)
Exact boundaries of the tract to be subdivided, by distances and bearings.
(f)
Existing and proposed easements and their approximate location, widths and distances.
(g)
Names and dimensions of existing and proposed streets and alleys on and adjacent to the tract.
(h)
Location and type of existing and proposed sewerage and storm drainage and water supply facilities and other utilities on or adjacent to the tract, showing proposed connections.
(i)
Lot lines with approximate dimensions and lot numbers.
(j)
Sites, if any, and their acreage, to be reserved or dedicated for public uses.
(k)
Vicinity map showing location of subdivision and its relationship to the rest of the city and surrounding countryside. This may be shown at a smaller scale than is used generally for the subdivision plat.
(Code 1968, § 22-31)
Sec. 28-38. - Prerequisites to submission of final plat.
After tentative approval of the preliminary plat of a subdivision and before approval of the final plat, there shall be filed with the planning commission by the building inspector and all other departments of the city and county concerned with the requirements of subdivisions, certificates as to the satisfactory completion of all improvements required, and for any requirements not so completed, a certificate by the [city] attorney as to the sufficiency of the bond offered in lieu thereof. Prior to the approval of the final plat, the performance and maintenance agreement required by section 28-40 shall be provided.
(Code 1968, § 22-32; Ord. (W-06-03) of 3-4-03)
Sec. 28-39. - Submission of final plat.
The subdivider shall submit to the city clerk the final plat of the subdivision along with a letter requesting review and approval of the final plat.
(Code 1968, § 22-33; Ord. (W-8-95) of 11-7-95, § VIII)
Sec. 28-40. - Performance and maintenance agreement.
(a)
Development performance and maintenance. Before approval of the final plat, the owner shall file a final development performance and maintenance agreement with the city as a prerequisite to the approval of a final plat or issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any part of a project included in the development permit. The development performance and maintenance agreement shall be in a form as required by the city and shall include the following:
(1)
Any final required landscaping improvement or other improvements yet to be completed. Such improvements shall be completed in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the city.
(2)
Maintenance of the public streets, drainage facilities, water system improvements and sanitary sewer improvements and easements for eighteen (18) months after the date of approval of the final plat. Repairs shall be made by the owner for any deficiencies identified by the city with any of such streets, facilities, improvements or easements within, said 18-month period or the surety bond may be called by the city to complete same.
(3)
Indemnification of the city against all liability for damages arising as a result of errors or omissions in the design or construction of the development for a period of ten (10) years.
(b)
Performance and maintenance surety bond.
(1)
The performance and maintenance surety bond may, be in the form of cash deposited with the city, or a bond issued by a surety acceptable to the city, or an irrevocable letter of credit from a local financial institution, all in a form acceptable to the city.
(2)
Performance and maintenance surety bonds shall, in all cases, be provided in an amount established by the city. The maintenance bond period shall be not less than eighteen (18) months from the approval of the final plat. The performance bond for the completion of the required improvements shall not exceed the time period agreed to by the city for completion of the improvements pursuant to section 28-40(a)(1).
(3)
In cases where the maintenance surety and performance surety are to cover a second phase or any other later stage of a development project governed by this article, said sureties shall be required to be extended in amount and application to cover the original phase of the project in addition to said later phase for the same period of application as set out in section 28-40(a)(2) if the later phase will utilize the same entrance street as that used by the original phase of the project.
(Ord. (W-06-03) of 3-4-03; Ord. (W-7-09), 6-2-09)
Secs. 28-41—28-43. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. (W-8-95) of Nov. 7, 1995, § IX, deleted §§ 28-40—28-43, pertaining to final plats, as derived from the Code of 1968, §§ 22-34—22-37.
Sec. 28-44. - Specifications for final plat.
The final plat of a subdivision shall conform to and meet the specifications of the preliminary plat and certain additional specifications as follows:
(a)
Exact location and description of monuments.
(b)
Exact locations, widths and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat.
(c)
Street center lines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii and lengths of tangents.
(d)
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth and bearings.
(e)
Lots numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
(f)
Locations and dimensions of all improvements constructed or installed.
(g)
Private covenants or restrictions, if any, shall either be recorded on the final plat or on an identified document attached to the final plat.
(Code 1968, § 22-38)
Sec. 28-45. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. (W-6-21) adopted December 27, 2021, § XIV, repealed § 28-45, which pertained to recording of final plat and derived from Code 1968, § 22-39; Ord. (W-8-95) of November 7, 1995, § X.
Sec. 28-46. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. (W-6-21) adopted December 27, 2021, § XIV, repealed § 28-46, which pertained to appeals and derived from Code 1968, § 22-39; Ord. (W-8-95) of November 7, 1995, § X 1.
Secs. 28-47—28-61. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 28-62. - Scope of article provisions.
Subdividers shall observe the general requirements and design standards of land subdivision specified in this article.
(Code 1968, § 22-50)
Sec. 28-63. - Streets, other features to conform to major street plan.
All streets and other features of the major street plan shall be platted by a subdivider in the location and to the dimensions indicated on the major street plan adopted by the planning commission.
(Code 1968, § 22-51)
Sec. 28-64. - Name of subdivision.
The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or too closely approximate the name of any other subdivision within the city.
(Code 1968, § 22-52)
Sec. 28-65. - Dedication of sites for public uses.
When school sites or other public building sites, parks or other land for public uses are located in whole or in part in a subdivision, such sites shall be dedicated or reserved by the subdivider for acquisition by the appropriate public agency. Whenever a subdivision plat proposes the dedication of land to public use that the planning commission finds not required or suitable for such public use, the planning commission shall refuse to approve the plat.
(Code 1968, § 22-53)
Sec. 28-66. - Sizes of areas for public uses.
Areas in subdivisions for parks, playgrounds or other public uses shall be of reasonable size. No arbitrary percentage of areas shall be insisted upon by the planning commission but in general, developers shall set aside not less than five (5) per cent of the area for these purposes.
(Code 1968, § 22-54)
Sec. 28-67. - Acceptance of dedication of street, other public grounds.
The approval of a subdivision plat by the planning commission shall not be deemed to constitute or affect an acceptance by the municipality of the dedication of any street or other public grounds shown upon the plat.
(Code 1968, § 22-55)
Sec. 28-68. - Land subject to flooding, land deemed uninhabitable.
Land subject to flooding and land deemed by the commission to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy nor for such other uses as may increase danger to health, life or property, or aggravate the flood hazard, but such land within the plat shall be set aside for such uses as shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation or shall not produce unsatisfactory living conditions.
(Code 1968, § 22-56)
Cross reference— Flood damage prevention ordinance, ch. 9.5
Sec. 28-69. - Arrangement of oversize parcels of land.
In case a tract is subdivided into large parcels than ordinary building los such parcels shall be so arranged as to allow the opening of future streets and logical future resubdivisions.
(Code 1968, § 22-57)
Sec. 28-70. - Lots.
(a)
Lots in a subdivision shall front upon a public street. Lot lines thereof shall be perpendicular or radical to street lines.
(b)
Lot dimensions shall meet the requirements of the zoning ordinance for the district or districts in which the subdivision is located. Corner lots shall be increased in size wherever necessary in order to provide that any structure to be placed thereon shall conform to the minimum setback line of each street as required in the comprehensive zoning ordinance.
(Code 1968, § 22-58)
Sec. 28-71. - Blocks.
The length of a block in a subdivision shall not exceed twelve hundred (1200) feet or be less than four hundred (400) feet, and the width shall be sufficient to provide for two (2) tiers of lots, but irregularly shaped lots indented by cul-de-sac streets and containing interior parks will be acceptable when properly designed and provision made for maintenance of such interior parks.
(Code 1968, § 22-59)
Sec. 28-72. - Street arrangement.
The arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall provide for the continuation of the principal streets in adjoining subdivision or for their proper projection when adjoining property has not yet been subdivided, and in general shall conform to the master plan.
(Code 1968, § 22-60)
Sec. 28-73. - Street names.
Street names in subdivisions shall require the approval of the planning commission. Streets that are obviously in alignment with streets already existing and named shall be given the name of the existing street. Names of new streets shall not duplicate or closely approximate those of existing streets.
(Code 1968, § 22-61)
Sec. 28-74. - Street jogs.
Street jogs with center line offsets of less than one hundred and twenty-five (125) feet shall not be permitted in a subdivision.
(Code 1968, § 22-62)
Sec. 28-75. - Dead-end or cul-de-sac streets.
Dead-end or cul-de-sac streets in an R-2 or R-3 subdivision shall not be greater in length than five hundred (500) feet. In all zones, cul-de-sacs shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having property line radius of at least sixty (60) feet with a back curb radius to be forty (40) feet.
(Code 1968, § 22-63; Ord. (W-8-95) of 11-7-95, § I; Ord. (W-26-06) of 10-3-06)
Sec. 28-76. - Alleys.
Alleys may be required in a subdivision at the rear of all lots used for multifamily, commercial or industrial development, but shall not be provided in one- and two-family residential developments unless the subdivider provides evidence satisfactory to the planning commission of the need for alleys.
(Code 1968, § 22-64)
Sec. 28-77. - Street intersections.
Street intersections in a subdivision shall be as nearly at right angles as possible. No such street intersection shall be at an angle of less than sixty (60) degrees unless required by unusual circumstances.
(Code 1968, § 22-65)
Sec. 28-78. - Curb radii.
Curb radii at street intersections in a subdivision shall be at least twenty-five (25) feet. Where the angle of street intersection in a subdivision is less than ninety (90) degrees, a radius of at least thirty (30) feet shall be required.
(Code 1968, § 22-66)
Sec. 28-79. - Geometric standards and grade requirements of streets.
In subdivision the following geometric standards and grade requirements shall be applicable and shall be observed:
EXPAND
Major
streets Collector
streets Minor
streets
Minimum right-of-way width 80 feet 70 feet 60 feet
Maximum street grade 7% 10% 10%
Minimum street grade 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Horizontal curvature (minimum radii) 800 feet 200 feet 100 feet
Minimum tangent length between reverse curves 200 feet 100 feet 100 feet
Minimum sight distance 5 feet above ground level 500 feet 200 feet 200 feet
  (Code 1968, § 22-67; Ord. (W-6-98) of 11-3-98; Ord. (W-9-99) of 5-4-99)
Sec. 28-80. - Reserve strips.
Reserve strips controlling access to streets, alleys and public grounds shall not be permitted in a subdivision unless the control is placed in the hands of the city council under conditions approved by the planning commission.
(Code 1968, § 22-68)
Sec. 28-81. - Easements.
Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines in a subdivision shall be provided where necessary for utilities or drainage. Any stormwater pipes located in drainage easements to be dedicated to the city shall be constructed of concrete.
(Code 1968, § 22-69; Ord. (W-2-15) of 4-7-15, § D )
Sec. 28-82. - Entrance requirements.
(a)
The entrance to all subdivisions containing thirty (30) or more lots shall be constructed in accordance with detail "A" attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
(b)
The planning board may waive the one hundred fifty-foot deceleration lane for subdivisions containing twenty-nine (29) lots or less if it can be waived without adversely affecting the safety of the public and traffic flow.
(c)
The location of any entrance to any subdivision is subject to planning board approval, taking into account safety and traffic flow considerations.
(d)
The planning board may require additional entrance(s) to a subdivision taking into account safety and traffic flow considerations.
(Ord. (W-5A-93) of 4-6-93; Ord. (W-6-98) of 11-3-98)
Editor's note— Detail "A", referenced in subsection (a) above, is not set out at length herein, but is on file and available for inspection in the office of the city clerk.
Secs. 28-83—28-97. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 28-98. - Approval of preliminary plat prerequisite to construction.
Construction of improvements in a subdivision shall not commence until the preliminary plat has been approved.
(Code 1968, § 22-80)
Sec. 28-99. - Improvements to be installed by subdivider.
A subdivider shall be required to install or have installed at his expense the following improvements:
(a)
Monuments: Two (2) concrete monuments at least thirty-six (36) inches in length and four (4) inches square with a suitable center point at each street intersection on the right-of-way line, and iron pin monuments three-fourths (¾) inch in diameter, and twenty-four (24) inches long at all points on boundary lines of lots where there is a change in direction, and at all lot corners.
(b)
Streets. Ninety-five (95) percent compaction is required on all streets. Developer will be responsible for the cost of the independent tests. The location and schedule of the compaction tests will be determined by city officials. In addition, a street shall be constructed of the following:
(1)
Eight (8) inches gravel base.
(2)
Two (2) inches asphalt base.
(3)
One and one-half (1½) inches topping asphalt.
No final grading or paving of the street, or construction or installation of utilities in the bed of a street shall be permitted until the grade has been officially established.
No paving shall begin until the compacted base has been inspected and approved by the official representative of the city and underground utilities installed and approved.
(c)
Water mains. Where a public water main is within fifteen hundred (1,500) feet of the subdivision at its nearest point, the subdivider shall connect with such water main. In such cases, mains of at least six (6) inches shall be required. The subdivider shall be responsible for the costs of all taps and extensions to existing municipal facilities.
Where a public water main is not reasonably accessible as determined by the planning commission, the subdivider shall provide an individual water supply according to the standards of the Barrow County Health Department.
A water plan showing the size and location of all proposed new water line additions as well as the location of all proposed valves, hydrants, and other appurtenances as well as any other information that may be required by the city of the state environmental protection division shall be submitted to the city for approval. All construction of water system improvements shall be performed in accordance with city approved construction methods, policies and material specifications at the expense of the developer.
(d)
Sanitary sewers. Wherever a public sanitary sewer is within fifteen hundred (1,500) feet of the subdivision at its nearest point and connection by gravity flow is feasible, the subdivider shall connect with such sanitary sewer and provide a connection for each lot. The size of the mains shall be at least eight (8) inches. The subdivider shall be responsible for the costs of all taps, lift pump stations, manholes and extensions to existing municipal facilities.
Where sanitary sewers are not available, an oxidation pond, septic tank or other disposal device designed and installed according to standards of the county health department may be permitted.
A sewer plan showing the size and location of all proposed new sewer lines (including depth) as well as the location of all valves, manholes and other appurtenances as well as other information that may be required by the city or the state environmental protection division shall be submitted to the city for approval. All construction of sewer system improvements shall be in accordance with city approved construction methods, policies and material specifications at the expense of the developer.
The subdivider shall also be responsible for the cost of operation and maintenance of any sewer lift pump stations installed for the first five (5) years of operation. The subdivider shall enter into a written agreement with the city setting forth the cost to be paid and the terms of payment. The cost shall be established by a schedule as adopted from time to time by the city council.
(e)
Storm sewers, catch basins, traps. Storm sewers, catch basins and traps shall be provided in each subdivision. They shall be designed to carry not less than the storm water from a rainfall expected to occur once in ten (10) years with a runoff factor of ninety (90) percent for pavements and buildings and a variable runoff factor depending on the topography of the ground for other areas. Any stormwater pipe to be installed in current city rights-of-way, or stormwater pipes designed and proposed for a future project (residential, commercial or industrial projects) where the roads are to be dedicated to the city or storm water pipes that are to be located in drainage easements to be dedicated to the city, shall be constructed of concrete.
(f)
Curbs and gutters. Concrete curbs and gutters shall be required in all subdivisions. All curbs shall be standard six (6) inch high back curbing. Driveways will be cut into the curb after the location of the driveway has been determined. The driveway shall be constructed of concrete with a minimum thickness of four (4) inches.
(g)
Street lamps. Street lighting shall be installed by the developer. Street lamps shall be placed at each entrance, intersection and dead-end cul-de-sac. Additional street lamps shall be installed at intervals of not less than two hundred and fifty (250) feet as needed. A street lighting plan shall be submitted to the City of Winder Planning Department for approval. All pole costs and other installation costs shall be paid for by the developer. In addition, all street light operational costs shall be paid for by the developer for a period of one (1) year after the acceptance of the final plat by the city.
(h)
Sidewalks. All subdivisions shall have sidewalks installed on each side of the street by the developer. Sidewalks shall be made of concrete and shall have a minimum width of four (4) feet and a minimum thickness of four (4) inches. Sidewalks shall be located a minimum two (2) feet from the back of the curb and gutter. All sidewalks shall be handicap accessible. The developer of any subdivision or commercial development shall also install a sidewalk along that portion of the development having frontage on any existing public street, excepting any new or existing street entrances and existing sidewalks. This sidewalk will be constructed in the manner stated herein and the exact location will be determined by the city planning department.
(i)
Soil erosion. Soil erosion and sedimentation control plans as well as plans for storm water control shall be submitted in accordance with chapter 24 of this Code.
(j)
As-built drawings. Final as-built drawings will be furnished by the developer. As-built drawings will be required for any variation from the preliminary approved plans, including the following:
(1)
Changes in the sewer profiles from the preliminary approved plans.
(2)
Changes in the street profiles from the preliminary approved plans.
(3)
Changes in the storm drain profiles from the preliminary approved plans.
(4)
Changes in the location of catch basins as shown on the preliminary approved plans.
(5)
Changes in the location of any utilities as shown on the preliminary approved plans including water, gas, sewer, storm drain, power, cable, TV and telephone.
(6)
Any other changes as required by the city engineer.
(Code 1968, § 22-81; Ord. (W-6-98) of 11-3-98; Ord. (W-3-00) of 6-2-00; Ord. No. W-06-04, 12-7-04; Ord. (W-09-05) of 8-2-05; Ord. (W-27-06) of 10-3-06; Ord. (W-2-15) of 4-7-15, § C )
Sec. 28-100. - Improvements to be installed by city.
The city shall install the following improvements in a subdivision:
(a)
Street name markers. Street name markers shall be provided at the corners of all street intersections.
(Code 1968, § 22-82; Ord. (W-6-98) of 11-3-98)
Sec. 28-101. - Variances, other improvements.
Where a subdivider can show that a provision of these regulations would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to, and where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, in the opinion of the planning commission a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provisions, the planning commission may authorize a variance. Likewise, because of peculiar conditions or circumstances relative to a particular subdivision, the planning commission may require the installation of sidewalks, street trees or other improvements. Any variance thus authorized or additional improvement thus required shall be stated in writing in the minutes of the planning commission with the reasoning upon which the variance or addition was justified set forth.
(Code 1968, § 22-83)
