APPENDIX A - FRANCHISES[1]
The following franchise ordinances and resolutions have been passed by the city. As franchise provisions are classified as special or temporary for the purpose of codification, they are not set out in full in this Code. However, the city has directed that the following table be included in this Code for ease of reference:
EXPAND
Res. No. 003-98 9-21-1998 Amends Ord. No. 206.
Ord. No. 206 8-21-1995 Atlanta Gas Light franchise, 30-year term
Ord. No. 203 4-24-1995 Electric franchise, 35-year term
Ord. No. 200 11-14-1994 Cable television franchise, five-year term
  ORDINANCE 003-98
Adopted September 29, 1998
An Ordinance to amend Ordinance No. 206 dated August 21, 1995, granting Atlanta Gas Light Company (hereafter Company) a franchise for the use of rights-of-way and other public property for the purpose of distributing gas within the City of Mountain Park, so as to modify the franchise fee calculation provisions; to repeal conflicting laws; to provide a effective date; and for other purposes.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN PARK, GEORGIA:
SECTION 1. An ordinance dated August 21, 1995, granting Atlanta Gas Light Company a franchise for the use of rights-of-way and other public property for the purpose of distributing gas within the City of Mountain Park, is hereby amended by inserting the following:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein are selected franchise ordinances and resolutions of the city. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines citations to state statutes and expression of numbers in text have been used to conform to the Code of Ordinances. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Cross reference— Any right or franchise granted by the city saved from repeal, § 1-6(5); businesses, ch. 14; communications, ch. 18; taxation, ch. 54.

Section 1. - Definitions:
(a)
"Base Year" means the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998.
(b)
"Base Year Franchise Fee Factor" means the total franchise fees paid during the Base Year divided by the Design Day Capacity as recorded by the Company on the last day of the Base Year.
(c)
"Design Day Capacity" means the sum of the individual capacity of dekatherms (Dt) attributable to all firm customers located within the city limits of the City, as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
(d)
"Firm Customers" means all residential and business customers who purchase gas service that ordinarily is not subject to interruption or curtailment.
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the 12 months ending September 30, of each year.
(f)
"Inflation Index" means the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or a successor index, for the period from September 30, 1997, to the beginning of the then current fiscal year. The percentage shall be reduced by any productivity factor adjustment for the same period determined by the Georgia Public Service Commission for the Company.
Section 2. - Franchise Fee:
The total dollar amount of franchise fees paid by the Company to the City shall be calculated as follows: The current Fiscal Year total franchise fee shall equal the product of the Design Day Capacity and the current franchise fee factor. The current franchise fee factor shall be equal to the product of the Base Year Franchise Fee Factor and one plus the Inflation Index expressed as a decimal to three significant digits.
The following formula quantifies this payment:
FFc = FFFby × (1 + (CPI - PFA)) × DDCc
Where FFc equals total franchise fees due the city for the current Fiscal Year
FFFby equals the Base Year Franchise Fee Factor
CPI-PFA equals the Inflation Index based on the cumulative change in the Consumer Price Index less the productivity factor adjustment determined by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
DDCc equals the Design Day Capacity as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
FFFby equals Ffby/DDCby
Where Ffby equals the total franchise fees paid in the Base Year
And DDCby equals the Design Day Capacity of the Base Year.
Section 3. - Responsibility for Payment of Franchise Fee.
The Company as the holder of the franchise privilege hereunder is responsible for the payment of all franchise fees payable hereunder, and shall file such reports and returns as required by the franchise ordinance as modified by this Amendment. In addition, the Company shall report annually the names of all Gas marketers for which Company is transporting natural gas on the distribution system within the City.
The franchise fee payments required hereunder shall be in lieu of any franchise fee license fee, occupation tax or other payment for use of the rights of way by the Company for the provision of gas service, but shall not prohibit imposition of a license fee or an occupation tax on gas marketers.
Section 4. - Quarterly Payments.
Effective for the Fiscal Year 1999, and for each Fiscal Year thereafter during the term of the franchise ordinance, the Company shall remit to the City quarterly franchise fee installments. The installments shall equal to one-fourth of the total annual franchise fee calculated in accordance with this ordinance.
The quarterly payment is due and payable on or before the 30th day following the last day of each calendar quarter.
Section 5. - Annual Return.
The Company shall file a return with its first quarterly installment in each Fiscal Year showing the details of the calculation of the annual franchise fee.
Section 6. - Delay of Inflation Adjustment.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this ordinance, any inflation adjustments shall be made to the franchise fee only when the Company changes its rates.
Section 7. - Conflicts.
In the event of a conflict between this ordinance and the original franchise dated August 21, 1995, this ordinance shall control. All terms, conditions and stipulations contained in such franchise ordinance shall remain in full force and effect to the extent that they do not conflict with this ordinance.
