Sec. 3.3.3.8. - Open space and recreation areas.
Open space to be preserved or created and maintained in an O-I district shall be subject to the following standards:
A.
Open space standards. A minimum of ten percent of the total development tract shall be preserved as open space that shall be recorded on the final plat or other instrument satisfactory to the city attorney. Open space shall be defined as usable space such as parks, gardens, natural areas, recreation facilities and athletic courts, etc., that may be used for passive or active recreation. Open space shall not include building lots or any portion thereof, required yards, street rights-of-way, parking lots or detention ponds. A minimum of 50 percent of the open space shall be maintained as a single open area with the remaining open space distributed as smaller areas. A maximum of 20 percent of each required open space area may be located within a floodplain. Minimum width of any open space area shall be 50 feet with a maximum ratio of length to width of three to one (3:1). Pedestrian access to open space shall be a minimum of ten feet in width and located a minimum of 15 feet from any dwelling unit.
B.
Establishment and preservation of open space.
1.
Construction phases. Each phase of development shall comply with the proportional open space for individual development phases and shall be designated on the preliminary and final plats. The developer shall submit plans for establishing the open space with the preliminary plat. The developer shall establish the proportional open space as indicated on the plats during the construction of each development phase. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until open space in proportion to the development and as indicated on the approved final plat has been established.
2.
Covenants. The developer shall preserve and maintain the land reserved for open space, parks, natural areas and recreation areas by recorded covenants and restrictions. The deed book and page number in which all such covenants and restrictions are recorded shall be shown on the recorded final plat of the development. These documents shall be satisfactory to the city attorney.
3.
Developer maintenance of open space and/or common areas. The developer or owner shall preserve and maintain the land reserved for open space and common areas in perpetuity.
4.
Use of open space. All open space and common areas shall be available for use by all commercial tenants and their employees, residents of the development, and registered guests of any hotel or motel within the bounds of the recorded covenants and restrictions.
( Ord. No. 7-2020 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 10-26-20)
