Sec. 3.2.3.7. - Site improvement standards.
Site improvements in an NC district, including off-street parking, sidewalks, streetlights, landscaping, service and emergency vehicle access, vehicle access, utilities, and refuse disposal, shall be subject to the following standards:
A.
Off-street parking. Parking shall comply with all applicable standards for off-street parking contained in article 7, Parking and Loading. Parking in the front yard shall be limited to 50 percent of the required spaces.
B.
Sidewalks. Sidewalks having a minimum width of five feet shall be installed within the right-of-way along any street frontage serving the property and align with adjacent public sidewalks. In the event public sidewalks are not present, the alignment shall be determined by the community development director. Sidewalks that connect the building entrance(s) to the public sidewalk shall also be installed. All such sidewalks shall be installed at the sole expense of the developer or property owner. Unless otherwise provided, a landscaped area having a minimum width of five feet shall be maintained between the back of curb and sidewalk. Sidewalks may be incorporated into the landscaping, but shall not displace required landscaping. See article 7, Parking and Loading.
C.
Streetlights. Pedestrian-scale lighting standards having a height of 14 and to 18 feet shall be installed at the sole expense of the developer or property owner. The number, type and location of such lighting standards shall be determined by the community development director.
D.
Landscaping. Landscaping plans for the development shall be submitted to the community development director concurrent with submittal of an application for a building permit. Such plans shall con-form to article 8, Buffer and Landscaping Standards.
E.
Service and emergency vehicle access. Site plans shall provide for access for firefighting equipment, ambulance and emergency service vehicles and solid waste vehicles and shall be subject to approval by the Riverdale Fire Marshal and the city engineer.
F.
Vehicle access. Vehicle access shall generally be made from the lowest street classification available for such access. However, access to a commercial development via a local street shall only be granted when no other street access is available. All access shall comply with section 7.14, Access standards and shall be subject to approval by the city with the exception of developments accessing a state route.
G.
Utilities. All utilities, including gas, electric, phone, cable, and fiber optics, shall be located underground.
H.
Refuse disposal. Collection stations shall be enclosed and placed at the rear of the property to minimize unsightly views. Dumpsters, compactors and any other refuse equipment shall be appropriately screened by means of a fence, wall or landscaping. In no event shall such screening exceed a height of ten feet.
( Ord. No. 7-2020 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 10-26-20)
