PART I - CHARTER[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's Charter as set forth in 1956 Ga. Laws, page 2205. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Sections 23 through 31 relate to the establishment, operation and jurisdiction of the city court of Riverdale. For consistency with O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, in these sections the term "city court" has been changed to "municipal court, and the term "city judge" has been changed to "municipal court judge" without notation.

Section 1. - Incorporation.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority aforesaid, that from and after the passage of this act, the inhabitants of the territory now embraced in the corporate limits of the City of Riverdale, located in the County of Clayton, located in the State of Georgia, be and are hereby incorporated under the name and style of "City of Riverdale."
Section 2. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the City of Riverdale shall include all territory shown on the Riverdale base map.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2737; 1984 Ga. Laws, page 4653; 1987 Ga. Laws, page 5152; 1990 Ga. Laws, page 5210; 1991 Ga. Laws, page 4638; 1992 Ga. Laws, page 7109; 1995 Ga. Laws (ex. sess.), page 388; Ord. No. 97-08, §§ 1, 2, 12-18-97; Ord. No. 98-04, § 1, 4-23-98; Ord. No. 98-06, § 1, 7-23-98; Ord. No. 98-09, § 1, 12-17-98; Ord. No. 00-05, § 1, 5-8-00; Ord. No. 00-07, § 1, 6-22-00; Ord. No. 00-08, § 1, 6-22-00; Ord. No. 00-09, § 1, 6-12-00; Ord. No. 00-11, § 1, 7-24-00; Ord. No. 00-12, § 1, 8-14-00; Ord. No. 00-13, § 1, 9-11-00; Ord. 00-15, § 1, 10-9-00; Ord. No. 01-02, § 1, 2-26-01; Ord. No. 01-05, § 1, 7-23-01; Ord. No. 02-01, § 1, 2-25-02; Ord. No. 03-06, § 1, 4-14-03; Ord. No. 03-07, § 1, 7-14-03; Ord. No. 05-10, § 1, 10-24-05; Ord. No. 05-19, 10-24-05)
Section 3. - Corporate power.
Be it further enacted, that from and after the passage of this act the inhabitants of the territory described in section 2 of this act, located in the County of Clayton, State of Georgia, be and are hereby incorporated under the name and style of "City of Riverdale" and said "City of Riverdale" is hereby chartered and made a city under the corporate name of "City of Riverdale" and by that name shall have perpetual succession, and is hereby vested with all the rights, powers and privileges incident to municipal corporations of this state, or cities thereof, all the rights, powers, titles, property, easements and hereditaments within or without its corporate limits now belonging to said "City of Riverdale" as created by this act. And the "City of Riverdale" as created by this act may by its corporate name sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with, plead and be impleaded, have and use a common seal; make and enact, through its mayor and councilmen, such ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions for the transaction of its business and the welfare and proper government of said city, as to said mayor and councilmen may seem best, and which shall be consistent with the laws of the State of Georgia and the United States. And the said City of Riverdale shall have the right and power to purchase, hold, rent, lease, sell, exchange, possess and retain in perpetuity, or for any term of years, any property, estate or estates, real or personal, lands and tenements and hereditaments, and of whatever kind, and within or without the limits of said city; and, for corporate purchases said City of Riverdale created by this act shall succeed to all rights of and is hereby made responsible as a body corporate for all the legal debts, liabilities and undertakings of said City of Riverdale and its mayor and councilmen as a body corporate as heretofore incorporated.
Section 4. - Mayor and council; compensation and powers.
(a)
The municipal government of the city and all powers of the city shall be vested in the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall be the legislative body of the city. The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to provide for the execution of all powers, functions, rights, privileges, duties and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees granted by this Charter or by state law.
(b)
The salary of the members of the mayor and council shall be set (or the same will remain the same) by December of each year to be effective in January of the following year except in the cases of local election cycles, whether special or regular elections, where the salary shall not be set during the period of time candidates qualify for election to the Riverdale City Council nor shall such salary change be effective until after the taking of office of those elected at the next regular municipal election which is held immediately following the date on which the action to increase the compensation was taken. The salary for the councilmen shall not exceed $13,600.00 per annum, and the salary for the mayor shall not exceed $18,400.00 per annum. Each councilman and the mayor, when authorized by the mayor and council and upon the presentation of itemized vouchers, shall receive his actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of his duties of office.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320; Ord. No. 07-2014, § 1, 6-26-14 )
Section 5. - Powers and duties of mayor.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of said city and it shall be his duty to preside at all meetings of the city council; to see that all meetings are conducted in a parliamentary manner, to preserve order and decorum in such meetings; to inflict such punishment upon any person guilty of contempt before said council as may be authorized by municipal ordinances; to see that all laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and resolutions of the mayor and council of said city are faithfully executed and enforced; to appoint and be an ex officio member of all committees; to see that all funds are properly accounted for and that all revenues are properly and promptly collected; to inform the council from time to time of the general condition of said city and its affairs and recommend such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient for the welfare of such city; to cause to be inspected the records and books of account of the officers of said city and see that they are properly and correctly kept; to require such reports to be made by such officers, to the council as he may deem proper; to see that order is maintained in said city and that its property and effects are preserved. The said mayor shall exercise general supervision and jurisdiction over the affairs of the said city; shall have authority to convene the council in extra session as frequently as he may deem proper; and to do acts and things as may be proper and necessary in the proper conduct of the affairs of said city and as may be hereinafter authorized.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320)
Section 6. - Impeachment of officers.
Be it further enacted that in case the mayor and/or council person while in office shall be guilty of malpractice, willful neglect in office or abuse the power conferred on him/her, he/she shall be subject to an impeachment proceeding upon majority vote of the city council. The mayor and/or council person who is subject to the impeachment proceedings shall be given no less than five business days notice of the impeachment hearing date, place and time. The mayor and/or council person who is subject to the impeachment proceedings shall have the right to counsel at the impeachment hearing at his/her own expense and the right to subpoena and present witnesses and other evidence. The burden of proof for impeachment shall be preponderance of the evidence and shall rest with the city. The members of the council who are not the subject to the impeachment hearing shall then vote on the issue of impeachment. Upon majority vote of impeachment by the council after the hearing, the affected member shall be removed from office.
(Res. No. 05-12, 7-25-05)
Section 6.1. - Council/mayor interference with administration.
Except for the purposes of inquiries and investigation under the section 63 of the Charter entitled "Inquiries and investigations of city affairs," the city council members and mayor shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the manager solely through the city manager, and neither the city council nor mayor shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
(Res. No. 05-10, 6-13-05)
Section 7. - Incumbents.
The members of the city council elected in the November, 2013, general election shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until their successors are elected and qualified as provided in this Act. The members of the city council elected in the November, 2015, general election shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until their successors are elected and qualified as provided in this Act.
( 2017 House Bill 548 , 5-3-17, § 1)
Section 7A. - Wards.
(a)
For the purpose of electing the four councilmembers of the City of Riverdale, the city shall be divided into four wards. Wards 1, 2, 3, and 4 shall correspond to those four numbered districts described in a plan and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as "Plan: riverdale-pl-2016 Plan Type: Local Administrator: H074 User: Gina".
(b)
(1)
For the purposes of such plan:
(A)
The term "VTD" shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a ward description which are underneath a 'VTD' heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia; and
(B)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any ward, whenever the description of any ward refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census maps for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
Any part of the City of Riverdale that is not included in any ward described in subsection (a) of this section shall be included within that ward contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Any part of the City of Riverdale which is described in subsection (a) of this section as being included in a particular ward shall nevertheless not be included within such ward if such part is not contiguous to such ward. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that ward contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia."
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2185; 1991 Ga. Laws, page 4956; 2017 House Bill 548 , 5-3-17, § 2)
Section 8. - Election, oath, and vacancies.
(a)
There shall be one member of the city council elected for each ward. A candidate shall designate the ward for which such candidate offers for election. Members of the city council shall be elected by qualified electors of the ward for which they offer for election. The election of members of the city council shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(b)
The first members of the reconstituted governing authority of the City of Riverdale from Wards 1 and 3 shall be elected in the November, 2017, general election. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election and shall serve for terms of four years each and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
The first members of the reconstituted governing authority of the City of Riverdale from Wards 2 and 4 shall be elected in the November, 2019, general election. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election and shall serve for terms of four years each and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(d)
Successors to members elected under subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall be elected in the November general election next preceding the expiration of such terms of office and shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(e)
All elections shall be conducted on a district-wide basis and in order for a candidate to be eligible to qualify as a candidate, in addition to the other qualifications enumerated in this charter, he or she must reside in the ward for which he or she offers for election for at least 12 months prior to an election. In order to be elected, a candidate for mayor or councilmember must receive a majority of the votes cast for the position for which he or she is offering as a candidate.
(f)
In the event a councilmember moves his or her residence from the ward that he or she represents after taking office, the mayor and city council shall declare his or her office vacant and it shall be filled as any other vacancy in the city's government.
(g)
(1)
At the first regular meeting of the mayor and city council after each regular election of members of the mayor and city council, they shall meet in the city hall or other designated place in the city and then and there severally take, before some officer authorized under the laws of Georgia to administer oaths, the following oath of office, to wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly demean myself as mayor or councilmember, as the case may be, of the City of Riverdale for the ensuing term, and that I will faithfully enforce the charter and ordinances of said city to the best of my skill and ability, without fear or favor, so help me God."
(2)
Should the mayor or any councilmember be absent from said meeting, such person shall take the oath of office as soon as possible thereafter.
(h)
Said mayor and councilmembers shall provide, by ordinance, for regular monthly meetings and may hold such special or called meetings as the business of the city may require, which special or called meetings shall be called either by the mayor in his or her discretion or by at least three councilmembers in their discretion, to be convened as provided by the city ordinances. Notice of special or called meetings shall be served by the city clerk or his or her designee on all other members personally or by telephone at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. If the clerk or his or her designee is unable to reach a member, it shall be deemed sufficient notice under this section if telephonic communication is attempted via the member's telephone number designated for that purpose or by delivery of written notice at the member's home address, provided such attempt is made at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting and, if possible, a message is left for the member. Notice to councilmembers of special or called meetings shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is convened. Notice of any special or called meeting may be waived by a member in writing either before or after such a meeting. Also, attendance at any special or called meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice concerning any business transacted in such member's presence. At special or called meetings, only the business stated in the call may be transacted.
(i)
In the event that the office of mayor or any one or more of the councilmembers shall become vacant by death, resignation, removal, or otherwise, said vacancy or vacancies may be filled by appointment and selection by the mayor and councilmembers in the case of vacancies in the city council, and by the councilmembers in the case of a vacancy in the office of mayor. Persons so selected shall be duly qualified to fill such vacancies for the unexpired term provided it does not exceed 12 months; otherwise, a special election shall be called.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2815; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 2611; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 3805; 1975 Ga. Laws, page 3306; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 4464; Ord. No. 97-06, § 1, 9-8-97; 2017 House Bill 548 , 5-3-17, § 3)
Section 9. - Declaration of vacancies.
Be it further enacted that should the mayor or any member of the council fail or refuse to perform the duties of his office for the term of three consecutive months, or should any officer-elect refuse to qualify, the office may be, in the discretion of the remaining members of the council, declared vacant, and the vacancy filled.
Section 10. - [Conduct of elections.]
All elections in said city, beginning with the municipal election in 1974, shall be conducted under and according to the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code, as now or hereafter amended.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2737; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 2611; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 3805)
[Sections 11, 12. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Sections 11 and 12 were repealed by 1974 Ga. Laws, page 3805.
Section 13. - Mayor pro tem.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen at their first regular meeting in January, 1957, and annually thereafter, shall elect one of the councilmen mayor pro tem., who shall, in the case of absence or disqualification of the mayor, or for a vacancy in that office, perform and discharge all duties, and exercise all of the authority of the office of mayor upon taking the usual oath.
[Section 14. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Section 14 as amended by 1960 Ga. Laws, page 2737, was repealed by 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320.
Section 15. - Qualifications of mayor and councilmen and notice of candidacy.
No person shall be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman of said city unless he shall have been a resident of said city for a period of one (1) year immediately preceding the time that he qualified to run for office; shall have attained or passed his twenty-first birthday, and shall be a qualified voter in municipal elections for officers of said city, not convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude, and entitled to register under the registration laws which may be in force at that time in said city. No person's name shall be placed on the ballot as a candidate for mayor or councilman unless such person shall have filed with the clerk of said city thirty (30) days prior to the election in which he desires to be a candidate (legal holidays and Sundays excluded) his written notice that he desires that his name be placed on said ballot as a candidate either for mayor or councilman and shall have paid a qualifying fee as determined by the laws of the State of Georgia. Such written notice shall be in such form and contain such information as the mayor and council may provide by ordinance. No person shall be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman of said city unless such person shall file the above notice within the time prescribed herein and have paid his qualifying fee.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2185; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 2611; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 3829; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3465; 1983 Ga. Laws, page 4954)
[Sections 16—20. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Sections 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 were repealed by 1974 Ga. Laws, page 3805.
Section 21. - City officers; drafts for expenditures.
At its first meeting in January of each year, the mayor and council shall appoint a city clerk and treasurer, a city attorney, city judge, and such other officers as the mayor and council deem necessary for the efficient operation of city government. Each officer appointed shall take such oath, perform such duties and given such bond, payable to the city, as the mayor and council, shall prescribe. The mayor and council, in their discretion, may suspend or remove any officer appointed pursuant to this section.
The mayor and council shall fix the compensation of all officers and employees of the city, including the compensation of all governing body members; provided that no increase in the compensation of members of the governing body shall be effective unless made in accordance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
All expenditures of city funds shall be drawn by the city clerk and treasurer in accordance with procedures established by the mayor and council.
(1989 Ga. Laws, page 5250)
Section 21A. - City manager.
(a)
The mayor and council of the City of Riverdale are authorized to create in the city government of said city the office of city manager.
(b)
The city manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of his/her executive, education and administrative qualifications, and need not reside in the City of Riverdale and need not reside in the State of Georgia at the time of appointment. No member of the mayor and council shall be allowed to serve as the city manager.
(c)
The city manager shall be appointed for a term set by the governing body and agreed to by way of contract with the city manager. The city manager shall hold the position at the pleasure of the governing body and may be removed from office at the discretion of the governing body by a majority vote. However, the city manager and the city may negotiate terms of removal by way of contract.
(d)
The salary of the city manager shall be set in the contract between him/her and the mayor and council of the City of Riverdale, and shall not be diminished during the term of his/her office unless by his/her consent or in the event s/he is removed or suspended from office by the mayor and council of said city.
(e)
The city manager shall implement the policies of the mayor and council as such policies are expressed by ordinances and resolutions. The mayor and council shall prescribe such other duties to be performed by the city manager as might be consistent with law, but no duty shall be so assigned which devolves by law upon officers of said city elected by the people.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2815; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 2829; Ord. No. 05-2014, § 1, 6-26-14 )
Section 21B. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 08-2014, § 1, adopted June 26, 2014 , repealed § 21B, which pertained to Civil Service Act; building and construction codes and derived from 1982 Ga. Laws, pages 2345 and 5320.
Section 22. - Quorum, vote and veto.
A quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of the mayor and three (3) councilmen or the mayor pro tem and three (3) other councilmen. Questions before the governing body shall be determined by the vote of a majority of the councilmen making up a quorum. The presiding office [officer] (i.e., mayor or mayor pro tem if he be presiding) shall be entitled to vote only in the case of a tie. The mayor shall have veto power and may use such power to veto any ordinance, resolution or action of the council. His veto must be in writing and give his reasons therefor and [be] filed with the city clerk within three (3) days of the date of council action. The matter shall thereupon become the first order of business at the next regular meeting of the governing body. The question shall be put to the council by the presiding officer substantially as follows: "Shall the veto of the mayor be overridden?" Three or more affirmative votes shall have the effect of overriding the mayor's veto, and the action previously taken by the governing body shall stand. The mayor pro tem shall not have the veto power when presiding, but the mayor shall have the veto power reserved to him above whether presiding or not. The mayor/council shall be allowed to call a special meeting and during that meeting, vote on whether to override the mayor's veto. All such specially called meetings will be advertised in compliance with the Open Meetings Act.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2829; Ord. No. 3-2006, 8-14-06)
Section 23. - Municipal court—Creation; presiding officers.
There is hereby created a municipal court for the trial of the offenses and offenders against the laws and ordinances of the City of Riverdale, such court to be called the Municipal Court of Riverdale and, at the first meeting of the mayor and council after their election and qualification, they shall appoint a judge of the municipal court and as many judges pro tem of the municipal court as needed for the ensuing year. The judges from the prior year shall serve until the judges' successors are appointed and qualified and, when so appointed and qualified as hereinafter provided, the judges shall have full authority as judges of said court for the administration of its affairs. The salary of the judge and judges pro tem shall be fixed by the mayor and council, and the judges shall take such oath as may be prescribed by the mayor and council. The judges shall be subject to removal, with or without any stated cause, upon a majority vote by the council. Any vacancy in the office of municipal court judge, by death, resignation, removal or other, shall be supplied by appointment of the mayor and council.
(a)
The Environmental Court of Municipal Division is hereby created, and the Municipal court judge or his assistant assigned to the environmental division shall convene court on a recurring day and time each month, established by the Mayor and Council, and further, shall have the same authority as that given to the judge in Section 23 et seq. of this Charter. The judge appointed to the environmental division may alter the date and time of the court convening, as needed and in cooperation with the Court Division.
(i)
Session Location. Sessions of the environmental division of the municipal court shall be convened at 7200 Church Street, Riverdale, Georgia 30296, or at such other times and places as the judge of the court shall designate.
(ii)
Summons; Issuance.
(a)
It shall be the duty of any member of the police department, in all cases where complaint is made or information obtained of any violation of any of the laws or ordinances of the city, to issue a summons, bearing test in the name of the city and directed to the accused, requiring him to appear before the municipal court to answer such charge, which summons shall designate the time and place of trial. It shall be signed by the patrolman or officer issuing same and a copy thereof shall be served upon the accused either personally or by leaving a copy at his place of residence by the issuing officer.
(b)
It shall be the duty of any code enforcement officer, in all cases where complaint is made or information obtained of any violations of the ordinances of the city or of a party's failure to comply with the ordinance of the city, to issue a summons bearing test in the name of the city and directed to the accused, requiring him to appear before the environmental division of the municipal court to answer such charge, which summons shall designate the time and place of trial. It shall be signed by the code enforcement officer issuing same and a copy thereof shall be served upon the accused either personally, by certified mail, or by leaving the copy at his place of residence by the issuing code enforcement officer.
(iii)
Same; contempt for failure to appear. Any person summoned as provided herein who shall fail, neglect or refuse to appear, or to make a satisfactory showing for such failure, neglect or refusal to appear and answer the charge specified, may be punished as provided in Section 25 of the City Charter. The case may be continued to such time as the municipal court may direct, and the court shall issue an order requiring the chief of police, or other member of the police force, to arrest the offender and bring him before the court to answer the contempt, and it shall be the duty of such police chief to keep the offender in custody until he is brought before the court, unless he gives bond for his appearance as provided by law.
(iv)
Witnesses; Subpoenas. Whenever the attendance of any witness may be required before the municipal court to establish any fact, the court, or the Clerk of court, or the deputy clerk of the environmental division of the municipal court, or such person as designated by the municipal judge, shall issue a subpoena directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial and the parties to the case, which shall be served as other process by the chief of police, other officer, policeman or code enforcement officer.
(v)
Contempt. Any person who, during a session of the municipal court or any division thereof, shall be guilty of a contempt of court, or who refuses to abide by any sentence or order of the court, shall be punished as provided in Section 25 of the City Charter.
(vi)
Docket; Required.
(a)
A court record of all cases coming before the court clerk and made by persons other than code enforcement officers, shall be kept in the office of the court clerk, records bureau, on which shall appear the name of every defendant charged with a violation of this Code or any city ordinance, and at the trial of all cases in the municipal court, the court clerk or other designated person shall record on the original copy of charges the punishment inflicted and the date, and an entry shall be made under the judge's sentence showing the final disposition of the case, that is, whether the fine, if any, was collected, the date of such collection and the disposition of such amounts. The original copy of charges, showing the within described information, shall constitute the permanent record of the court and shall be maintained in the order as directed by the judge.
(b)
A court record of all cases issued by code enforcement officers and coming before the clerk of the environmental division of the municipal court shall be kept in the office of said clerk, on which shall appear the name of every defendant charged with a violation of any city ordinance, and at the trial of all cases in the environmental division of the municipal court, the court clerk or other designated person shall record on the original copy of the charges the punishment inflicted and the date, and an entry shall be made under the judge's sentence showing the final disposition of the case, that is, whether the fine, if any, was collected, the date of such collection and the disposition of such amounts. The original copy of charges, showing the within described information, shall constitute the permanent record of the environmental division of the municipal court and shall be maintained in the order as directed by the assistant judge of the municipal court with the approval of the judge of the municipal court.
(vii)
Method of Selection of Municipal Judge.
(a)
The governing body may also appoint an assistant municipal court judge who shall preside over sessions of a division of the municipal court to be known as the environmental division.
(i)
Said court shall adjudicate cases instituted by the city's code enforcement officer or officers.
(ii)
The environmental division of the municipal court shall be located at 7200 Church Street, Riverdale, Georgia 30296, or at such other location as may be determined from time to time by the judge of the municipal court.
(iii)
Said appointee must possess the same qualifications an the municipal court judge in order to qualify for the appointment.
(iv)
Said appointment shall follow the same procedure as that of appointing the judge of the municipal court.
(viii)
Environmental Division of Municipal Court; Records; Deputy Clerk; Reporting.
(a)
The environmental division of the municipal court is charged with the responsibility of adjudicating those cases made for violations of the city ordinances by code enforcement officers. All matters coming before this division of the municipal court shall remain under the general supervision of the judge of the municipal court.
(b)
Records of all proceedings conducted by the environmental division of the municipal court, including but not limited to dockets, original citations and records of disposition thereof, sentences, assessments of fines, punishment and performance or payment thereof, shall be maintained by the environmental division at the municipal court and not merged with the records of the municipal court. However, a copy of the docket book shall be maintained in the offices of the clerk of the municipal court.
(c)
A person may be designated by the judge of the municipal court to serve in the capacity of deputy clerk of the environmental division of the municipal court, and that person shall be charged with the same responsibilities within the confines of the environmental division of the municipal court as are charged to the clerk of the municipal court.
(ix)
Compensation. Compensation for the judge and solicitor of the environmental division of the municipal court of Riverdale, shall be paid at a rate negotiated with the City.
(x)
Fines. Fines for violations of the Code of the City of Riverdale involving environmental issues shall be those as set out in the ordinances themselves, set out on the fee schedule established by the City or as determined in the discretion of the Judge. Said fees may be changed at any time by Resolution of the Mayor and Council.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2791; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320; Ord. No. 01-08, 7-23-01; Ord. of 7-14-08(1); Ord. No. 06-2009, § 1(Exh. A.), 9-14-09; Ord. No. 14-2010, § 1(Exh. A.), 11-22-10)
Section 24. - Same—Jurisdiction; sentence.
The judge of the municipal court of Riverdale may impose sentence for any violation of a city ordinance or law by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or imprisonment not to exceed twelve (12) months; any one or more of these punishments in the discretion of the judge.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2791; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320; Ord. No. 01-2013, § 1(Exh.A), 1-28-13)
Section 25. - [Same—]Contempt.
When sitting as a court, the judge or judge pro-tem thereof, shall have the power to punish for contempt by fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment in the manner prescribed as aforesaid not exceeding six (6) months, one or both, or any part thereof, in the discretion of the judge or judge pro-tem.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2791; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320; Ord. No. 02-2013, § 1(Exh. A), 1-27-13)
Section 26. - [Same—]Warrants.
The municipal court judge of the City of Riverdale shall be authorized to issue warrants for any offense under any law or ordinance of the City of Riverdale or this state, and when the offense is against state law and not covered by municipal law or ordinance, may hear evidence and commit to jail or take bond for appearance before the grand jury or a state court having jurisdiction to try the same. If the offense charged in the warrant be one against any law or ordinance of the City of Riverdale, the arresting officer shall carry the case before the municipal court, where same shall be disposed of as other cases of arrest not under warrant. All warrants issued by the judge, or any one authorized to preside in the municipal court, shall be directed to the "Chief of Police of the City of Riverdale, any law enforcement officer thereof, and to all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, and constables of the State of Georgia," and any one of said officers shall have authority to execute warrants.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2791; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320; 1989 Ga. Laws, page 5250)
Section 27. - [Same—]Witnesses.
The municipal court judge, or judge pro-tem of the municipal court shall have power and authority to subpoena witnesses to attend the municipal court, under the same rules and regulations that regulate and govern the superior courts of this state, to compel attendance, and to punish any witness who has been duly subpoenaed and fails to attend, under the provisions heretofore provided for contempt with respect to authority of the municipal court judge to punish for contempt in the municipal court.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2791; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320)
[Section 28. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Section 28 as amended by 1957 Ga. Laws, page 2791, was repealed by 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320.
Section 29. - Prisoners.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen may provide for a city prison which shall be safe and suitable for the keeping and detention of city prisoners and convicts and may appoint a custodian for same. The mayor and councilmen may contract with the proper authorities of Clayton County for the use of the common jail of said county for this purpose.
Section 30. - Bonds, appearance, forfeiture and cash.
Any police officer of the City of Riverdale shall have authority to release any person arrested for a violation of any law, regulation or rule of said municipal government upon such person giving bond payable to the City of Riverdale in an amount and surety to be approved by the policeman or as directed by the municipal court judge, conditioned for the appearance of such person before the municipal court at the time and place specified in said bond and from time to time until he or she shall have been tried for the offense for which charged. If any person so released under appearance bond shall fail to appear for trial at the time named therein, such bond shall be forfeited; and a rule nisi shall be issued requiring him or the surety upon such bond to show cause before said court, at a time not less than ten (10) days from the date of such rule, why such bond shall not be absolutely forfeited. Copies of such rule shall be served upon such person or persons to whom it shall be directed at least five (5) days before the return day thereof, provided such person or persons are residents of said city, and such service may be made personally or by mailing a written notice to such person or persons at their last known address. At the time such rule is made returnable and no sufficient cause be shown, the forfeiture of said bond shall be final and absolute, and execution shall issue for the full amount thereof, and all costs, against the principal and sureties thereof or such of time as shall have been served. Such execution shall be signed by the clerk of the City of Riverdale and the municipal court judge, and shall be directed to all police officers of said city and to all and singular the sheriffs and constables of this state, and the same when so issued shall be a lien upon all property, real or personal of such parties, and [of] binding effect upon such property and of the defendants therein as if the same were issued upon judgments in the superior courts, and shall be levied by any officer to whom it shall be directed. Provided, however, that any police officer of said city, when the emergency of the occasion demands it, may require cash bonds for the appearance of such arrested person or persons, and upon their failure to appear at trial thereof, said cash bond may, in the discretion of the judge, be regarded as a fine and so assessed by said Judge.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2791; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320)
Section 31. - Certiorari.
Any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of said city in the municipal court may apply for certiorari pursuant to the laws of the State of Georgia, to the Superior Court of Clayton County, provided all costs are first paid and security given in double the amount of the fine imposed.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2791; 1981 Ga. Laws, page 5142; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320)
Section 32. - Tax returns.
Be it further enacted, that all persons owning property in the City of Riverdale shall be required to make a return under oath, annually, to the board of tax assessors of said city, of all their property, real and personal, subject to taxation by said city, as of January 1st of each year; and the books for recording same shall be opened on January first and closed on April first of each year. Said property shall be returned by the property owner at the fair market value thereof.
[Sections 33, 34. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Section 33 was repealed by 1979 Ga. Laws, page 4462. Sections 34 and 34A were repealed by 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320.
Section 35. - Collection of tax not on digest.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen shall have power to provide for the collection of taxes on property subject thereto which is not returned and not shown on the digest of the tax of the tax assessors; and to make such additional regulations as they deem necessary to secure the payment of taxes on all property subject thereto.
Section 36. - Tax executions.
The mayor and councilmen of said city shall have power and authority to provide by ordinance when the taxes of said city shall fall due, and tax executions shall be issued against all persons who have not paid their taxes by the time fixed and defined by ordinance. All tax executions shall be signed by the clerk and bear teste in the name of the mayor of said city; and the chief of police or other law enforcement officer of said city, the sheriff, deputy sheriffs, and the constables of said state shall have authority to execute same by levy and sale as hereinafter provided in this Charter.
(1989 Ga. Laws, page 5250)
Section 37. - Ad valorem rates.
Be it further enacted that for the purpose of raising revenues for the support and maintenance of said city and to pay the principal and interest on the bonded indebtedness of said city as the same becomes due and payable, the city council shall have full power and authority to levy, assess and collect, for the operation, maintenance, support and expenses of the government of said municipality and its various functions as well as the various departments, agencies, officers and employees thereof, an ad valorem tax on all property, real, personal and mixed, including money, notes stocks, bonds and other evidences of debt, money used in banking and every other species of property in said city, or owned or held therein, which may be lawfully taxed for said city. The millage levied shall be sufficient to provide a sinking fund for the purpose of paying the principal and interest on the bonded indebtedness of said city as required by law. The ad valorem tax above authorized for general purposes, and the bond interest and sinking fund tax shall be levied by separate ordinances, and each shall specify the purpose of which the tax is levied.
(1973 Ga. Laws, page 3642; Ord. No. 97-05, § 1, 9-8-97)
Section 38. - Streets, sidewalks, etc.
The mayor and council of the City of Riverdale shall have full control and full power and authority to regulate, widen, change, lay out, direct and control the streets, sidewalks, lanes, alleys, squares and lands of the City of Riverdale as provided by the laws of the State of Georgia.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320)
Section 39. - Water.
Be it further enacted, that the City of Riverdale is authorized to own and operate a system of waterworks for supplying water for all purposes to all persons resident in said city, and to other persons as may be provided by ordinance. The mayor and councilmen shall have full power to make all rules and regulations for the management and operation of said water plant and to fix from time to time the rates charged for water with the right to classify said rates. Said mayor and councilmen shall have the power to enforce payment for water and shall have the right to require reasonable deposits as well as the power to discontinue service until all amounts due [have been paid] by the consumers whose service is discontinued and until such consumer shall have paid the penalty prescribed.
The mayor and council in their discretion, may extend any water or sewer line beyond the limits of the City of Riverdale, to provide service to customers living beyond the city limits, should it be deemed by said mayor and council to be financially beneficial to said city.
Section 40. - Building and construction codes.
(a)
Building and construction codes. The governing authorities of the City of Riverdale are hereby authorized to make, adopt, amend and repeal building, housing, electrical (except any electrical code applying to the installation, repair or maintenance of electric wires, apparatus, equipment or devices by or for a utility rendering communication services and required by it to be utilized in the rendition of its duly authorized service to the public); plumbing, heating, gas and other similar codes relating to the construction, livability, sanitation, erection, equipment, alteration, repair, occupancy or removal of buildings and structures located inside of the corporate limits of the City of Riverdale.
(b)
Extent of authority. Said codes, rules and regulations may embrace such matters as: the preparation and submission of plans and specifications; issuance of permits; standards governing the kind, quality and performance of materials, equipment and workmanship; establishment of fire zones; fireproofing; means of egress and ingress; floor area per occupant; sanitary facilities and usage proceedings in connection with unsafe, unsanitary or inadequate structures. The enumeration herein shall not be construed as being exclusive.
(c)
Adoption by reference. Said codes, rules and regulations may be adopted by reference to national or regional codes.
(d)
Inspectors. Said governing authorities shall have the authority to appoint building, electrical, plumbing, gas, housing inspectors for said city and such other assistants as the said authority may deem necessary.
(e)
Permits and inspections. Said governing authorities shall have the authority to make rules and regulations concerning permits for and inspections of construction equipment, alteration, repairing or removal of buildings, signs and other structures inside the corporate limits of the City of Riverdale and may prescribe fees or charges for permits and inspections, which fees shall be fixed and charged by said governing authorities and shall be paid to the city clerk by the applicant for such permits or inspections.
(f)
Public hearings. Before enacting any of the codes, rules or regulations permitted in this act, the governing authority of the City of Riverdale shall hold a public hearing thereon, at least 15 days notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in said city.
(g)
Compliance required. Full compliance with all rules, regulations and requirements set up hereunder shall be a prerequisite to issuance of any permit and failure to secure such permit as is required is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor.
( Ord. No. 08-2014, § 1, 6-26-14 )
Section 41. - Occupation and business taxes; business licenses; permits; fees.
a.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to levy and collect any occupation and business taxes that are not prohibited by the constitution and general law of Georgia. These taxes may be levied on any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation who transacts business in the city or who practices or offers to practice any trade, business, calling, vocation or profession within the corporate limits of the city. For such purpose, these taxes may be levied and imposed on a fixed rate or gross receipts basis or any combination thereof. The mayor and council may classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of these taxes in any manner as is reasonable. The mayor and council shall have authority to provide by ordinance for the return or registration for taxation of any trade, business, calling, avocation [vocation] or profession subject to a tax. Payment of these taxes may be compelled as provided in section 44 of this chapter [Charter].
b.
The mayor and council, by ordinance, shall have the individual, person, firm, partnership, company or corporation who transacts business in the city or who practices or offers to practice any trade, business, calling, avocation [vocation] or profession therein to obtain a license or permit for these activities from the city and to pay a reasonable fee for the license or permit for the regulation of any activity not prohibited by general law. These fees may reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity and if unpaid shall be collected as provided in section 44. The mayor and council, by ordinance, may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitates; including but not limited to denial or revocation for any violation of federal or state law or city ordinances.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320)
[Sections 42, 43. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Sections 42 and 43 were repealed by 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320.
Section 44. - Violations.
Be it further enacted, that at the first regular meeting of the mayor and councilmen in each year, said mayor and councilmen shall pass and adopt, as hereinbefore provided, a tax or license ordinance fixing a license for each of the businesses, occupations or professions, trades or vocations, which under the laws of this state are subject to municipal licenses and fixing the amount of such tax or license, and may, issue fi. fa. against the person subject to such license, which fi. fa. shall become and constitute a lien on all property liable for such license and shall have the same rank and be enforceable in the same manner as town and valorem tax fi. fas. Any person, firm, or corporation who shall commence, begin or engage in any business, occupation, profession, calling or vocation for which a license is required by the City of Riverdale, without having first procured such license and complied with all other requirements of said City of Riverdale, relating thereto, shall be guilty of a violation of the city ordinance provided for such license or tax, and, upon conviction thereof, in the police [municipal] court of said city, shall be punished as provided in this act, and each day that such person, firm or corporation shall prosecute, carry on or engage in any such business, profession, trade or calling without having first procured said required license shall be a separate and distinct violation of said license ordinance; and prosecution under this section shall not be a bar to the issuance by said city of fi. fas. against such said person, firm or corporation and the levy and sale of property belonging to such person, firm or corporation thereunder, but may be in addition to the methods herein provided for collecting such tax or license. If any person, firm or corporation shall commence, begin or engage in any business, within the City of Riverdale, requiring a license, prior to May 1st of each year, the mayor and councilmen shall add the sum of twenty per cent of the total amount of such license to such license fee, as a penalty for failure to procure same before May first; and if any person, firm or corporation shall, after May first of any year, commence, begin, or engage in any business, within the City of Riverdale, requiring a license and shall operate same for a period of thirty days without such license, the mayor and council shall then add the twenty percent penalty above provided. The mayor and councilmen shall have full power and authority to provide by ordinance for the classification of all businesses, and to fix the license or taxes to be paid by the different classes of businesses, and all other rules and regulations necessary and proper in the premises.
Section 45. - Revocation of licenses.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen of said city may revoke the license of, and prohibit the operation of, any business or establishment for which a license may have been issued, in the event the same becomes a nuisance or is dangerous, hazardous or injurious to the health or morals of the inhabitants of said City of Riverdale, and in the case of such, licenses shall be refunded. But no license shall be revoked, without giving written notice to the person, firm or corporation holding such license, such notice stating that reason or reasons why such license is being revoked, and affording such person, firm or corporation an opportunity to be heard on the question before said mayor and council, the said notice setting forth the time and place of the hearing on the revocation of such license. The decision of the mayor and councilmen of said city, revoking any such license, shall be final.
Section 46. - Disposal of municipal property, abandoned property, stolen property and confiscated property.
The governing body is authorized and empowered to enact reasonable ordinances governing the disposal of city property, property which is abandoned and unclaimed, property which is known to be stolen but the true owner cannot be located, and legally confiscated property. However, no ordinance adopted pursuant to this authority shall allow any municipal officer or employee to personally benefit from the disposal of such property.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 3829)
Section 47. - Animals.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen of said city shall have the power and authority to prevent horses, mules, cattle, hogs, sheep, dogs, goats and all other animals or fowls from running at large in said city, and to prevent and prohibit the keeping of animals and fowls within the city limits or to regulate the manner in which they must be kept if allowed to remain. Also to impound such animal, or animals, when found upon the streets of said city, and to charge such fees for same as they may prescribe, and in addition thereto charge for the keep of such animals so impounded. Also when the owner or owners of such animals so impounded shall fail or refuse to pay the impounding fee and cost of keeping said animal or animals, said animal or animals may be sold at public outcry and the proceeds applied to the payment of said fee and cost of keeping said animal or animals under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the mayor and councilmen.
Section 48. - Improvement bonds.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of the City of Riverdale are authorized and empowered to call elections by the qualified voters of the said city, in accordance with the provisions of the laws of Georgia at such time or times as said mayor and council may designate, to determine whether or not bonds shall be issued by said city for the purpose of providing funds to pay the expense of paving, repaving, improving or re-improving any or all of the sidewalks, streets, alleys, avenues, lanes or other public places or any portion thereof, in said city, for which said city would be liable under the provisions of this act, and for the purpose of providing funds for the paving or improving of street intersections and for the payment of the assessments against said city as provided for in this act for which the city would be liable by reason of being the owner of land abutting upon any of the streets or sidewalks paved or improved under the provisions of this act, and for the purpose of providing funds for any other expense for which the said city would be liable, either in whole or in part, by reason of such paving or improving. Said bonds are to be issued under the general laws of the State of Georgia with reference to the issuance of bonds by municipalities and said mayor and council are authorized, empowered and required to levy and collect a tax annually, in addition to all other taxes authorized by law, upon the taxable property of said city, a sufficient tax and sum to meet, pay off and retire any such bonded indebtedness that may be incurred under the terms of this act according to the manner of the issuance of said bonds; and according to the terms, stipulations and tenor of said bonds providing the sum raised for this purpose shall be used for no other purpose whatsoever.
Section 49. - City's share.
Be it further enacted, that if the said City of Riverdale has in its treasury a sufficient manner of funds, the mayor and council may, by appropriate ordinance, direct that such money be expended for the purpose of paying the expense of improving such streets, avenues, alleys and public places and such expenditures shall be treated and considered as a current expense of the operation of said city, and this may be done without referring the question to the qualified voters of said city and without the necessity of any election to decide such questions.
Section 50. - Sewerage and drainage.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen of said city shall have full power and authority to establish, construct and maintain and operate a system of sewerage and drainage, or parts of such system in said City of Riverdale and around said city, for health and cleanliness and comfort of its inhabitants; and the said mayor and councilmen shall have entire and absolute control and jurisdiction over all said pipes, private drains and public sewers, private waterclosets, privies and the like in said city with full power to prescribe the location, structure, uses and preservation, and to make such regulations concerning them in all particulars as may seem best for the preservation of the health of the inhabitants of said city, with full power also to require changes in or the total discontinuance of any such contrivance or structures already in existence or that may be thereafter allowed. When any system of sewerage or drainage shall be construed [constructed] by said mayor and council, or under their direction, easements may be made and executions may issue for the expense thereof; under the same rules and governed by the same provisions and [as] assessments and executions for paving, grading or improving streets, under this Charter; and said assessments shall be a lien on the property so assessed, as provided in this act for paving streets. And all the provisions of this Charter in reference to making and enforcing assessments in paving streets and the amount thereof shall apply so far as they are applicable to constructing and maintaining sewers, and may be enforced by the mayor and councilmen by appropriate ordinances.
Section 51. - Easements.
Be it further enacted, that in case any sewers, or parts of same, shall be located upon or through private property and the owner of said property refuses to grant right-of-way for that purpose, and such owners and the authorities of said city cannot agree upon the damages to be paid for such easement, the damage shall be assessed as in cases of property taken for opening, straightening or widening streets under this Charter. Upon the payment or tender of the amount of the award the work may proceed notwithstanding the entering of an appeal.
Section 52. - Delegation of authority to boards, committees, or officers.
Be it further enacted, that said mayor and councilmen may provide by ordinance for the execution of the provisions of these sections regarding sewerage, drainage and sanitation, except as to taking of private property for construction of sewers, by such boards, committees or officers as they may deem best.
Section 53. - Sewerage and drainage system beyond limits.
Be it further enacted that for the purpose of preservation of the health of the inhabitants of said city, the mayor and councilmen are empowered to extend their system of sewerage or drainage beyond the limits of said city and the provisions as to the construction and maintenance of such sewerage system and the taking of property therefor shall apply to the territory without the limits of said city as may be necessary for the construction of said system.
Section 54. - Sanitation services.
The governing body is authorized and empowered to establish from time to time reasonable charges for sanitation, garbage, trash and refuse collection services in the city. The governing body may establish by ordinance reasonable rules and regulations for such operation.
(a)
The city has the authority to collect delinquent sanitation fees by way of a lien on the real property served and that execution may issue for the collection of same in the same way that execution issues for the collection of ad valorem taxes.
(b)
The City of Riverdale is granted the authority to enter into contracts with individuals, corporations, or other jurisdictions for the pickup and disposal of garbage or other waste. Municipal employees may also perform these services.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 3829; Ord. No. 06-2014, § 1, 6-26-14 )
Section 55. - Jurisdiction of city beyond limits.
Be it further enacted, that jurisdiction of the mayor and councilmen and the territorial limits of the City of Riverdale are hereby extended for police and sanitary purposes over all the lands that may hereafter be acquired by said city for waterworks, sewer and waterworks or other stations and adjacent lands and the pipes and mains of said waterworks system, and they shall have full power and authority to provide by ordinances for the protection of the city waterworks system and the preservation of the purity of the water and to provide penalties for the violation of said ordinances, and the enforcement of the same. The police officers of said city shall have the authority to arrest any person, or persons, violating said ordinances, wherever found, within or without the limits of said city. The mayor and councilmen of said city shall exercise the jurisdiction and police authority over any authority it may own or control without the limits of said city for sewerage or drains, and for a distance of two hundred yards in any direction from the boundary thereof, and shall have full power and authority to enact such ordinances and rules as they may considered necessary to protect these properties and grounds, as fully and completely as if the same were wholly located in the city limits proper, and the police officers shall have authority to make arrests of persons violating the same, wherever found, within or without the limits of said city.
Section 56. - Eminent domain.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen of said city shall have full power and authority to contract for or to condemn any water rights, land, property or premises within or without the city for the purpose of establishing and maintaining a waterworks system, or sewerage system, for the purpose of laying out new streets and alleys, for the purpose of widening, straightening and grading or in any way changing the street lines and sidewalks of the city, or for any other public purpose deemed necessary by the city, provided that if the right to condemn herein granted be exercised, all proceedings shall be under the provisions of sections 36-301 to 36-307, inclusive, of the Code of Georgia of 1933 [O.C.G.A. §§ 22-1-8 through 22-2-21], and acts amendatory thereof.
(Ord. No. 03-02, § (a), 1-13-03)
Section 57. - Draining or filling of lots or cellars.
Be it further enacted, that said mayor and councilmen shall have full power and authority to cause owners of city lots, and cellars, if same should be a nuisance, or a board of health should recommend that said lot or cellars, be filled or drained, to cause the owners to fill or drain said lots, or cellars, to the level of the streets or alleys upon which said lot or cellars are located. That if the owners or occupants of the lots or cellars shall fail or refuse after notice, either to themselves or to their agents, as the mayor and councilmen may elect, to comply with the requirement of said mayor and councilmen, by draining or filling said lots or cellars, it shall be lawful for said mayor and councilmen to have this work performed and the amount of money so expended in doing so collected by executions, and the sale under such execution shall pass the title to the property.
Section 58. - Nuisances.
Be it further enacted that said mayor and councilmen may by ordinance declare what shall be a nuisance in said city and provide for the abatement of the same. The police [municipal] court in said city shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the mayor and councilmen of said city in respect to the trial and abatement of all nuisances in said city.
[Section 59. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Section 59 was repealed by 1979 Ga. Laws, page 4460.
Section 60. - Communicable diseases.
Be it further enacted, that said mayor and councilmen shall have power and authority to enact ordinances for the purpose of preventing the spread of any contagious or infectious disease[,] to declare and maintain quarantine regulations against such diseases, and punish for violation of any quarantine regulations of said city. They shall have power to compel all persons to be vaccinated, whether they be permanent residents or sojourners, and may provide vaccination points and employ physicians at the expense of the town to vaccinate all persons who are unable to procure such vaccination, and may provide by ordinance punishment for persons failing to be vaccinated.
[Section 61. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Section 61 was repealed by 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320.
Section 62. - Franchises, easements, etc.
Be it further enacted that the mayor and councilmen of said city shall have power to grant franchises, easements, and right-of-way over, in, under and on the public streets, lanes, alleys, parks and other property of said city.
Section 63. - Inquires and investigations of city affairs.
Following the adoption of an authorizing resolution by a majority vote, the city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office or agency thereof, and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
(Res. No. 05-11, 6-13-05)
[Sections 64, 65. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Sections 64 and 65 were repealed by 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320.
Section 66. - Executions.
All executions in favor of the City of Riverdale for the enforcement and collections of any fine, forfeiture, assessment, taxes or other claim, demand, or debt, shall be issued by the clerk and bear teste in the name of the mayor (except when otherwise provided by this Charter), and shall be directed to the chief of police of said city and shall state for what issued and be made returnable to the mayor and councilmen of the City of Riverdale at least within ninety (90) days after the issuing of the same; and it shall be the duty of the chief of police or collecting officers to advertise the sale of such real or personal property as may be levied on by him to satisfy said execution, in the same manner respectively as sheriffs' sales of real property or constables' sales of real property are required to be made by law. All of said sales shall be made at the place within the usual hours of sale of sheriffs' sales and shall be made under the same rules and regulations as govern sheriffs' sales of similar property; and the time, place and manner of sale of property, both real and personal, for taxes due, shall be the same as provided by law for sale under the executions for state and county taxes.
Whenever any land is sold for taxes, redemption may be made by paying the purchaser the amount paid for said property at said tax as shown by the recitals in the tax deed, plus a premium of ten percent (10%) of said amount for each year, or fraction of a year, which shall have elapsed between the date of sale and the date of which the redemption payment is made, said payment to be made to the purchaser at any time within twelve (12) months from the date of said tax sale, and at any time thereafter until right to redeem shall be foreclosed. All redemptions of land which has been sold for taxes due the City of Riverdale and the foreclosure of the right of redemption of land sold for taxes shall be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, as embodied in O.C.G.A. §§ 48-4-40 through 48-4-48, and all acts amendatory thereof.
Whenever at any such sale for taxes due, no person present shall bid for the property put up for sale as much as the amount of such execution for taxes and all costs and after such property shall have been cried for a reasonable time, then any duly appointed or authorized agent of said city may bid off said property for said city, and the chief of police, or such other officer making the sale, shall make to the City of Riverdale a deed to the property so sold and deliver the same; and the title thus acquired by the city shall be perfect and complete after the period provided for the redemption of the owner shall expire; and after the foreclosure of the right to redeem, as above provided, the chief of police or other officer making the sale shall put the city in possession, and the mayor and councilmen of said city shall have no right to divert or alienate the title of the city to any property as purchased, except at a public sale to the highest bidder in such manner as may be prescribed by the ordinance of the City of Riverdale.
The city clerk shall keep an execution docket and shall enter thereon all executions, giving the date, amount of each, and to whom delivered and all proceedings hereunder; said execution shall also be returned to the office of said clerk after being satisfied.
All sales and conveyances made under executions as provided in this section shall have all the force and effect of sales and conveyances made by sheriffs of this state, and the officer making the sales shall have the same power as sheriffs to put purchasers in possession of property sold by them under the laws of this state.
(1989 Ga. Laws, page 5250)
Section 67. - Parks.
Be it further enacted, that said mayor and councilmen of the City of Riverdale shall have power and authority to acquire, on behalf of the City of Riverdale by gift, purchase, lease or otherwise, grounds suitable for park or parks as in their judgment may be to the interest and welfare of the citizens of said city. They shall have the power and authority to improve and keep up the same, and to this end may appoint such officers and employees as in their judgment may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section. They shall have the right to draw on the ordinary expense fund of said city for such purpose.
Section 68. - Trees.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen of the City of Riverdale shall have the power and authority to adopt and enforce ordinances for said city to protect shade trees and public places in said city and to prevent cutting, injuring or mutilation thereof by telephone and telegraph linemen, or others, unless the same is done with the consent and under the direction of said mayor and council, or some officer appointed to direct the same. Said mayor and councilmen shall also have power and authority to order the removal of any tree in said city which, in the judgment of the mayor and council impedes or hinders travel or traffic in said city. If, after reasonable notice to the owner of property in said city upon which said tree is located, such owner fails or refuses to remove said tree therefrom, the same may be removed by the mayor and councilmen at the expense of such property owner, and for such expenses of removal execution may issue against such property owner.
Section 69. - Welfare powers.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen of the City of Riverdale shall have full power and authority to pass all laws and ordinances that they may consider necessary for the peace and good order, health, prosperity, comfort and security, of said city and the inhabitants thereof, and that they may be necessary to foster virtue and good morals in said city; to suppress lewdness, gambling, disorderly conduct, and to enforce such laws and ordinances by such penalties as are authorized by this Charter. The said mayor and councilmen shall have full power to adopt and enforce any and all ordinances they may consider advisable or necessary to carry out the powers granted to said city and said mayor and councilmen by this Charter; to make and enforce such ordinances, rules and regulations for the government of their body, and all officers of said city, and to do any and all other powers conferred upon them by this act, or that may be done or exercised, under the laws of this state conferring powers upon municipal corporations provided said laws, ordinances, regulations and rules are consistent with the laws of this state.
Section 70. - Zoning and planning.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council of the City of Riverdale may, in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare, adopt zoning and planning regulations and ordinances for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings or other uses of property; or for the purpose of regulating the location, height, kind and dimensions of buildings or other structures, including the type of material to be used in construction and regulations regarding the plumbing, heating, and electrical installations; or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one or more of the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts and such districts may be of such shape and area as the mayor and council of said city shall deem best to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations; in the determination and establishment of districts and regulations, classifications may be based on the nature or character of the trade, industry, profession, or other activity conducted or to be conducted upon the premises; the number of persons, families or other group units to reside in or use said buildings; the public, quasi-public or private nature of the use of the premises; or upon any other basis or bases relevant to the promotion of the public health, safety, order, morals, conveniences, happiness, prosperity or welfare and to enact and enforce any ordinances necessary to effectually carry out this section.
Code cross references—Planning commission, § 2-171 et seq.; zoning, app. A.
[Sections 71, 72. - Reserved.]
Editor's note— Sections 71 and 72 were repealed by 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5320.
Section 73. - Fire protection.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen of said city may provide fire protection and they shall have power to organize and equip a fire department, either paid or volunteer, to make such appropriations as may be advisable for this purpose, and provide any buildings necessary therefor and adopt such ordinances and regulations as will best promote the object of this section and the protection of property from fire.
Section 74. - Animal control.
The City Council shall hereby have the power to regulate animal control in the City of Riverdale.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 16-2010, § 1(Exh. A), adopted Nov. 22, 2010, changed the title of Section 74 from "Dog tax; killing of certain dogs authorized" to "Animal Control."
(1989 Ga. Laws, page 5250; Ord. No. 16-2010, § 1(Exh. A) 11-22-10)
Section 75. - City Code.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen of said city may cause to be codified all ordinances of said City of Riverdale, together with this act, into one book to be known as "The Code of the City of Riverdale," which book shall be construction in a similar manner to the deed record books how being used by the clerk of the Supreme Court of Clayton County, Georgia, for recording deeds. Said code shall be admitted in evidence in any of the courts of this state upon the certificate of the clerk of the said City of Riverdale, certifying the same to be the code of ordinances and laws of said town.
Code cross reference—Designation and citation of Code, § 1-1.
Section 76. - Bonds.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and councilmen of the City of Riverdale shall have power and authority to issue bonds for and in the name of said city for the following purposes, to wit: For purchasing lands, buildings; erecting buildings; improving property; purchasing equipment; purchasing improvements, paying for condemned property taken for public use; for building, equipping and maintaining waterworks, water supply system, sewers and sewer system, disposal plants, and for laying water mains and sewers, paving, macadamizing, repairing and improving the public sidewalks, streets, lanes, alleys, crossings and public places in said city; for fire protection, fire fighting equipment and facilities, and for any and all public uses and purposes that may be needed for said city.
Section 77. - Bond plans and specifications.
Be it further enacted, that, before any proceedings towards the issuing of bonds for any of the purposes named in the preceding section, the mayor and councilmen shall prepare, or cause to be prepared by contract or otherwise, necessary plans, specifications, estimates of cost showing location, extent, cost and other information, all of which shall be on file and accessible to voters at least ten days before said bond election is to be held. The cost of preparing such plans, specifications, and estimates of cost may be paid from current expenses, funds and/or from the proceeds of the bonds sold.
Section 78. - Bond elections.
Be it further enacted, that before any bonds of said city shall be issued for any of the purposes named in section 76 of this Charter, the mayor and councilmen of said city shall, by appropriate resolutions or ordinances direct and provide that such bonds shall be issued, and shall specify the purpose and amount thereof, the rate of interest to be paid annually, and when to be fully paid off, the place of payment and other terms and details thereof, and shall also in said resolution or ordinances call and provide for the holding of any election on the subject and for public published notice thereof, as provided by the constitution and laws of this state. Such an election or elections may be called at any time or times, or from time to time, for issuing bonds for any one or more or all of the before-stated purposes, as deemed expedient by mayor and councilmen provided, always, that the limits of the total bonded indebtedness of said city as fixed by the constitution of the state shall never be exceeded. Should the requisite number of qualified voters of said city, as prescribed by the constitution and laws of this state, vote in favor of issuing bonds at any election called for by said mayor and councilmen as hereinbefore provided, then and in such event said city's mayor and councilmen shall, at any time before the time of issuing the bonds authorized by such election, provide for the assessment, levy and collection, during the life of said bonds, of an annual tax upon all property in said city subject to taxation, sufficient in amount to pay the principal and interest of said bonds. Any and all of the bonds and series of bonds issued by said city under the provisions of this Charter shall become obligatory and binding upon said city and its taxpayers with all the qualities of commercial papers, and said mayor and councilmen of said city are hereby authorized to negotiate and sell any of said bonds or series of bonds [and said bonds or series of bonds] when sold shall only be applied to the purpose or purposes for which they were respectively issued. All of said bonds, when issued, shall be signed by the mayor and clerk of said city.
Section 79. - Sinking fund.
Be it further enacted, that whenever any bonds are issued by said city, it shall be the duty of the mayor and councilmen of said city to provide a sinking fund to pay off the principal and interest of such bonds or series of bonds at their maturity.
Section 80. - Temporary loans.
Be it further enacted that the mayor and councilmen of said city shall have power and authority when necessary to supply casual deficiencies in the revenues of said city, to negotiate a temporary loan or loans and execute a note or notes therefor in the name of said city, as may be provided by special resolution or ordinances for this purpose.
Section 81. - Revenue-producing projects.
Be it further enacted, that said city, by and through its mayor and council shall have full power and authority to acquire, construct, reconstruct, improve and extend revenue-producing projects and systems, to maintain and operate same, to prescribe, revise, fix and collect rates, fees, tolls, and charge for the services, facilities and commodities furnished thereby and, in anticipation of the collection of revenues therefrom, to finance the cost of construction and operation of same and to exercise all powers and authorities and to do all the things and acts authorized by the "Revenue Anticipation Law of 1937" of this state and acts amendatory thereof.
Section 82. - Existing ordinances.
Be it further enacted, that all ordinances heretofore adopted by the mayor and councilmen of the City of Riverdale, and which are now in force and which are not inconsistent with nor repugnant to this act, and not in conflict with the constitution of the State of Georgia or the Constitution of the United States, shall remain in full force and effect, provided, that said mayor and councilmen of said City of Riverdale may at any time repeal, alter or amend any of said ordinances.
Section 83. - Repeal of laws.
Be it further enacted that all Acts of the General Assembly of Georgia heretofore passed incorporating the City of Riverdale, 1951 Ga. Laws, page 2112, and all amendments thereto, and all provisions therein, which are inconsistent with this act, are hereby repealed, and all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act be and the same are hereby repealed.
Section 84. - Validity of act.
Be it further enacted, that in the event any article, section, paragraph or provision or provisions of this act, in whole or in part, or any isolated portion of this act, or any provisions herein contained, shall be declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction, such shall not have the effect of destroying or impairing the validity of the remaining part, unless expressly so held by a court of competent jurisdiction. In the event the General Assembly shall have granted herein to the City of Riverdale any powers or authorities in excess of any such permitted by the constitution and laws of Georgia or the United States, then such powers or authorities given shall be construed to extend just so far as possible not to exceed the said authority of the General Assembly.
Section 85. - Effective date of Charter.
Be it further enacted, that the provisions of this Charter shall become effective and in full force immediately after said Charter is approved.
Section 86. - Conflict of laws.
That all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
