Chapter 66 - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance pertaining to land use, development regulations or zoning saved from repeal, § 1-10(7); any ordinance relating to subdivisions or dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the county saved from repeal, § 1-10(10); administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; planning committee, §§ 30-91 et seq.; environment, ch. 38; flood hazard prevention, ch. 46; manufactured homes and mobile homes, ch. 54; roads, ch. 70; signs, ch. 74; utilities, ch. 90; zoning, app. A; development standards for zoning, app. A, art. V; development regulations, app. B; plan and plat specifications for development regulations, app. B, art. 7; general requirements for planned development, app. B, § 8.5.
State Law reference— Coordinated and comprehensive planning and service delivery by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-70-1 et seq.; automatic membership of counties and municipalities in regional development centers, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-33.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 66-1. - Comprehensive plan adopted.
The county board of commissioners resolves that the joint city/county comprehensive plan for the county and the cities of Auburn, Bethlehem, Carl, Russell, Statham and Winder, dated June 1992 and as approved by the state department of community affairs, is hereby adopted.
(Code 1993, § 17-1)
State Law reference— Automatic membership of counties and municipalities in regional development centers, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-33.
Sec. 66-2. - Fees for development permits and approvals.
Charges for licenses, permits, and other approvals required to be obtained shall be in amounts as established and amended from time to time by the director of the planning department, upon the written approval of the chairman of the board of commissioners and the chief of operations; provided, however, that the amount of such fees shall be presented within the annual budget approved by the board of commissioners. In the event that the position of director of the planning department is vacant, the amount of the fees may be established and amended from time to time by the chief of operations, upon the written approval of the chairman of the board of commissioners; provided, however, that the amount of such fees shall be presented within the annual budget approved by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1993, § 17-2; Ord. of 5-10-2005)
State Law reference— Approval of plat of subdivision prior to recording, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67(d).
Sec. 66-3. - Land use dispute resolution process.
(a)
Prior to initiating any formal annexation activities, the city will notify the county planning department in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested of a proposed annexation and provide information on location of property, size of area and proposed land use and zoning classifications of the property upon annexation. Within 30 working days following receipt of the above information, the county will forward to the city in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, a statement either:
(1)
Indicating that the county has no objections to the proposed land use for the property; or
(2)
Describing its bona fide objections to the city's proposed land use classification, providing supporting information, and listing any possible stipulations or conditions that would alleviate the county's objections.
(b)
If the county has no objection to the city's proposed land use and zoning classification, the city is free to proceed with the annexation. If the county fails to respond to the city's notice in writing within the allotted time, the city is free to proceed with the annexation and the county loses its right to invoke the dispute resolution process, stop the annexation or object to land use changes after the annexation.
(c)
If the county notifies the city that it has bona fide land use classification objections, the city will respond to the county in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, within 30 working days of receiving the county's objections by either:
(1)
Agreeing to implement the county's stipulations and conditions and thereby resolving the county's objections;
(2)
Agreeing with the county and stopping the action on the proposed annexation;
(3)
Disagreeing that the county's objections are bona fide and notifying the county that the city will seek a declaratory judgment in court; or
(4)
Initiating a 30-day maximum mediation process to discuss possible compromises.
(d)
If the city initiates mediation, the Northeast Georgia Regional Development Center shall assist the city and the county in the selection of a mediator acceptable to both parties. After acceptance of a mediator, the city and county shall agree on a mediation schedule and appoint representatives to participate in the mediation process. The cost for mediation shall be borne equally by the city and the county.
(e)
If no resolution of the county's bona fide land use classification objections results from the mediation, the city will not proceed with the proposed annexation.
(f)
If the city and county reach agreement as described in subsection (c)(1) or as a result of the mediation, they will draft an annexation agreement for execution by the city and the county government and the property owners.
(g)
Regardless of future changes in land use or zoning classification, any site-specific mitigation or enhancement measures or site-design stipulations included in the agreement will be binding on all parties for duration of the annexation agreement. The agreement shall become final when signed by the city, the county and the property owners.
(Res. of 7-1-1998)
Secs. 66-4—66-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RESERVED[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord.(2) of Jan. 11, 2005, repealed Art. II, §§ 66-31—66-38, which pertained to telecommunications antennas and towers and derived from Ord. of Apr. 14, 1998, §§ 2(17-51)—2(17-58); Ord. of Apr. 10, 2001, §§ 1—6. Please see the Unified Development Code, set out in this Code as Ch. 89, for provisions related to telecommunications antennas and towers.

Secs. 66-31—66-38. - Reserved.
