Chapter 58 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; environment, ch. 30; floods, ch. 38; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62; subdivisions, ch. 66; utilities, ch. 78.
State Law reference— Authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; hazardous waste disposal, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-61 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries pursuant to contract, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 58-1—58-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 58-26. - Purpose.
The purpose of the rules and regulations contained in this article is to provide for the protection of the public health by prescribing the manner of storage, collection, transportation and disposal of residential, commercial and industrial waste, rubbish, garbage and refuse.
(Ord. No. 93-003, § 1, 4-12-93)
Sec. 58-27. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Collection means the process whereby a person who, under agreement, verbal or written, with or without compensation, does the work of collecting and/or transporting solid waste from industries, offices, retail outlets, businesses, institutions and/or similar locations, or from residential dwellings; provided, however, that this definition shall not include an individual collecting and/or transporting waste from his own single-family dwelling unit.
Disposal site means the location or land area where the final disposition of solid waste occurs.
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
Hazardous waste means solid or liquid waste material resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides and drugs; pathological wastes; highly flammable or explosive wastes; toxic wastes; sewage sludge; and other waste material determined to be a likely hazard to the public health, safety or environment, except radioactive waste materials as provided for in rules of the department of human resources, chapter 270-5-20, entitled Radioactive Materials.
Industrial waste means waste materials generated in industrial operations.
Putrescible waste means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms, including kitchen wastes, manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes and garbage.
Refuse means all putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except body wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleaning, dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid commercial and industrial wastes.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
Sanitary landfilling means a method of disposing of putrescible waste and/or hazardous waste on land by placing earth cover thereon.
Scavenge means uncontrolled picking from discarded waste materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, except water-carried body wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, sewage sludge, animal manures, industrial wastes, residue from incineration, food processing wastes, construction wastes, hazardous wastes and any other waste material in a solid or semisolid state not otherwise defined in this article.
(Ord. No. 93-003, § 2, 4-12-93)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 58-28. - Enforcement.
(a)
In general. The public works and/or the sanitation superintendent, who are responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article, shall, in the exercise of his solid waste management duties:
(1)
Supervise the collection of solid waste, including the operation and maintenance of equipment and the supervision of personnel;
(2)
Establish collection schedules in accordance with the provisions of this article; and
(3)
Coordinate the city's use of the sanitary landfill operated by the county and such other disposal facilities as may be required.
(b)
Limitations of authority. All regulatory actions of the director and/or superintendent shall be subject to the review of the city manager.
(c)
Appeal. Any person aggrieved by a requirement of, or a fee charged by, the director and/or superintendent shall have the right to appeal to the city manager who may, upon hearing, confirm, modify or revoke such requirement or fee.
(Ord. No. 93-003, § 3, 4-12-93)
Sec. 58-29. - Precollection.
(a)
In general. No person shall keep or store solid waste outside of any residence or building within the city, except in proper containers for collection, as set forth in this section. Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. The sanitation superintendent or the director of public work by written notice shall notify the owner or occupant of any premises with such solid waste accumulation to remove same. Failure to remove such accumulation within five working days of the date of such written notice to do so shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and subject to penalties hereinafter set forth. A separate violation shall be deemed committed each day upon which such unlawful accumulation continues.
(b)
Containers.
(1)
One two-wheeled, roll-away garbage container shall be provided by the city to the occupant of each residence or dwelling unit. Any additional containers desired by the occupant may be purchased from the city. Any replacement containers needed prior to the useful life or from negligence by the owner of the container will also be the responsibility of the occupant.
(2)
Multifamily complexes may be furnished either individual wheeled containers or commercial steel containers of a size and type specified by the sanitation superintendent.
(3)
Disposable paper or plastic bags of a type, size and material designed for solid waste disposal may be used on those occasions when the quantity of refuse is greater than can be accommodated in the wheeled container. However, it is the intention of the city to collect and service residential solid waste through the use of the rolled containers. Continued use of additional bags could warrant the purchase of an additional container.
(4)
Commercial and industrial establishments shall be furnished access to either their own individual steel containers or community steel containers shared by more than one customer. These containers will be sized and typed by either the public works director or the sanitation superintendent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, commercial and residential establishments located within the Central Business District are required to utilize containers provided by the city and shall not be allowed to use or maintain privately owned containers with the exception of an individual business that generates sufficient refuse to warrant an independent commercial dumpster at the discretion of the city manager, with container placement as required by the city manager or his/her designee, and such business shall clean or provide for cleaning of their containers and areas surrounding containers to maintain them in a sanitary manner.
(c)
Placement. On days designated as collection days, garbage and/or rubbish from dwelling units shall be placed for collection at the curb or beside the roadway, but not in the gutter or street. No roll-away containers shall be placed at the street on noncollection days.
(d)
Scavenging. No person, other than the owner or authorized collection personnel, shall sift the contents of or remove anything from containers, boxes or bundles containing garbage or rubbish.
(Ord. No. 93-003, § 4, 4-12-93; Ord. No. 2013-005, 3-18-13)
Sec. 58-30. - Collection.
(a)
Frequency. Garbage shall be collected from residential areas once a week. Rubbish shall be collected in residential areas on a regular basis, usually once per week. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected from commercial and business establishments as often as required.
(b)
Limitations.
(1)
Large animal carcasses over 20 pounds, or waste from construction, demolition, major landscaping or processing operations, or tires will not be collected, transported or disposed of by public facilities; but such waste collection, transportation and disposal shall be by the owner and/or generators of such waste or animals.
(2)
Industrial generated waste may be collected, transported and disposed of by public facilities on a contract basis.
(3)
It shall be a violation of these regulations to place or to cause to be placed in any container, box or bundle, or otherwise for collection, any hazardous waste of any kind except upon specific prior arrangements with the sanitation superintendent or the public works director.
(4)
It shall be a violation of these regulations to place or to cause to be placed any solid waste material generated from outside the city into any container within the city designed to handle solid waste materials.
(5)
It shall be a violation of these regulations to place or to cause to be placed any household garbage in any steel container within the city designed for the use of commercial and/or industrial customers.
(6)
Limbs or tree trunks resulting from the cutting of trees on private property must be disposed of by the property owner or tree service contractor. This shall not include small cuttings resulting from the routine trimming of shrubbery, which will be picked up and disposed of by solid waste personnel.
(7)
The city shall not pick up any building or construction materials resulting from remodeling, renovation or new construction.
(Ord. No. 93-003, § 5, 4-12-93)
Sec. 58-31. - Disposal.
All disposal of solid waste shall be at disposal sites operated in accordance with state laws and with rules and regulations of the state department of natural resources, and no other place.
(Ord. No. 93-003, § 6, 4-12-93)
Sec. 58-32. - Fees; classification of establishments.
(a)
Monthly charges for public collection and disposal of solid waste inside the city shall be as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council.
(b)
For the purpose of determining the classification of establishments as to size of container and frequency of pickup, the sanitation superintendent and/or the director of public works shall make such classification based on volume of waste generated by each customer served by public collection. They shall maintain a weekly collection list of all steel container users to be turned in to the utility billing clerk each month.
(Ord. No. 93-002, 4-10-93; Ord. No. 93-003, § 7, 4-12-93)
Sec. 58-33. - Billing.
(a)
Against whom levied. Service charges in accordance with the schedule set down in section 58-32 are levied against both the owner and the occupant of premises served, jointly and severally, but collecting from one shall not relieve the other.
(b)
Charges for solid waste collection and disposal. Charges for solid waste collection and disposal service shall be billed by the utility billing clerk along with other utilities at each customer's address. When such payment has not been made by the 15th day of the billing date, a ten percent penalty shall be added and collected. When such payment has not been made by the 20th day of the billing date, service shall be discontinued until all arrears, including penalty, have been paid in full.
(Ord. No. 93-003, § 8, 4-12-93)
Sec. 58-34. - Penalties.
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. No. 93-003, § 9, 4-12-93)
Sec. 58-35. - Brush, leaf and limb service.
(a)
Brush, leaf and limb collection, generally. The public works and/or the samitation department shall provide collection of brush, leaf and limbs throughout the city. This service will be provided to residential customers; however, commercial customers may receive this service on a cost-of-service basis after making arrangements with the public works department.
(b)
Frequency of service, amount collectible. The city shall not collect more than one load at any one residential location per predetermined cycle unless colelcted as an unscheduled service. A "load" is defined as no more than six cubic yards of material.
(c)
Placement and preparation of items generally. Brush, limbs, and leaves shall be placed near the street but not in the street and not on any public sidewalk. Limbs shall not be over six feet in length or six inches in diameter and shall be completely trimmed. All leaves and grass shall be placed in paper lawn bags or other approved biodegradable containers and placed near the street. No plastic bagging material can be used in disposing of leaves and/or grass materials. Alternate containers must be approved by the director of the public works department. Dirt, rocks and plant roots containing soil shall not be collected by the city.
Leaves, limbs, grass or other trimmings shall be placed in an orderly manner so as not to obstruct the free and normal flow of any drainage system or the safe vision or movement of any pedestrian or vehicluar traffic. Such debris shall not be placed in the gutter of any roadway at any time.
(d)
Placement of items by persons other than property owner. Limbs not from trees being removed by any person other than the owner of the property shall not be collected or hauled by the city. Individuals or companies under contract to remove trees or landscaping shall haul and dispose of all such refuse. All limbs, leaves and rubbish placed at the street must be obtained from the adjoining property and not hauled in from another site. These requirements also apply to utility or railroad companies, which trim vegetation away from their wires, equipment or tracks to maintain their right-of-way over public and private land.
(e)
Items placed on vacant lots. Leaves or limbs put on vacant lots by property owners or violators shall not be collected.
(f)
Entry on property by city vehicles and employees. Except as otherwise provided, city-owned vehicels shall not enter upon private property to collect limbs or other solid waste, and employees are hereby prohibited from entering upon private property to collect limbs which are placed more than five feet behind the sidewalk, ditch, or property line whichever is the farthest from the centerline of the street.
(g)
Unscheduled service. The minimum charge for unscheduled service shall be $50.00 per vehicle load or part thereof plus disposal cost based on the current landfill rates for the type of materials collected for all customers requesting additional municipal solid waste and/or leaf and limb collection services by the city's public works department with the confines of the city. The city shall charge a customer for collection and disposal expenses associated with the removal of waste which does not comply with this article and shall charge a minimum of $50.00 per vehicle load or part thereof, plus the cost based on the current landfill rates for the type of materials coolected. The city may include such charges to the customer on the next utility bill to the customer, if not paid in advance.
(Ord. No. 2008-007, 3-10-08)
