Chapter 1-6 - FINANCE AND TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Bids of street paving contracts, § 1-7-30; investment by tax director, § 2-6-6; reimbursable expenses of commissioners, §§ 2-2-22, 2-2-23, and generally, § 2-6-3.
State Law reference— Power of taxation, Const. 1983, Art. IX, § 4, ¶1; power of expenditure, Const. 1983, Art. IX, § 4, ¶2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 1-6-1—1-6-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COUNTY DEPOSITORIES AND DISBURSING AGENTS

Sec. 1-6-20. - Office of county treasurer abolished.
The office of county treasurer of Dougherty County, Georgia, shall be abolished, and said office shall cease to exist.
(Ga. Laws 1921, p. 456; Code 1979, § 4-101)
Sec. 1-6-21. - Selection of depositories and disbursing agents.
The commissioners of Dougherty County, shall, by a majority vote taken among themselves, select some duly incorporated bank or banks in said county to act as depository or depositories and disbursing agent or agents of and for the public funds of said county. Any bank or banks now or hereafter in business in Albany, Georgia, when and while so selected and appointed by said commissioners are hereby designated as depositories and disbursing agents for county funds. Said commissioners shall select the bank as such depository and disbursing agent which makes the highest bid for the county funds in the form of an offer to pay interest on the daily balance of the funds of the county. If no bank offers to pay interest, then said county commissioners shall, in their discretion, select one (1) of said banks to act under the terms of this Act. If all the banks in said county refuse to serve under this Act, then and in that event only shall said commissioners appoint a person to act as hereinafter provided.
(Ga. Laws 1921, p. 456, § 2; Code 1979, § 4-102)
Sec. 1-6-22. - No compensation.
No bank or banks which may be designated as such depository or depositories and disbursing agent or agents shall receive any compensation for acting as such.
(Ga. Laws 1921, p. 456, § 3; Code 1979, § 4-103)
Sec. 1-6-23. - Bond.
No such bank shall be allowed to act as such depository and disbursing agent until it shall have given a bond signed by at least two (2) amply solvent persons or by some good surety company, or both, in the sum of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), payable to said commissioners and their successors in office, conditioned for the safekeeping and accounting for all funds that may come into its custody by reason of its acting as such depository and for the faithful performance of all the duties pertaining to said depository; said bond to be approved by said county commissioners. It shall be within the power of said commissioners to call upon said bank to increase the amount of or to strengthen said bond at any time they may deem necessary, and in default of the same being done, to revoke the appointment of such bank as depository and disbursing agent.
(Ga. Laws 1921, p. 456, § 4; Code 1979, § 4-104)
Sec. 1-6-24. - Duties.
(a)
It shall be the duty of any bank acting as such depository and disbursing agent:
(1)
To pay without delay, when in funds of the county, all orders or warrants issued by said commissioners or by their authority when presented for payment. The responsibility for the legality of such orders or warrants is placed on said commissioners;
(2)
To take a receipt on each order when paid and carefully file it away;
(3)
To keep a well-bound book in which shall be entered all receipts, stating when received, from whom, and on what account, and all amounts paid out, stating when paid, to whom and on what account;
(4)
To keep a well-bound book in which shall be entered a full description of all county orders or warrants or other forms of indebtedness, as they are presented; and to record a copy of the order of the county authorities levying county taxes;
(5)
To collect and receive from all officers and others all county funds and to receive, hold and disburse according to law all funds which a county treasurer might have heretofore received, held or disbursed;
(6)
To render reports to and to appear before said commissioners whenever notified, and to appear before any grand jury, on request, to render an account of its actings and doings as such depository and disbursing agent, and to exhibit its books and vouchers as such depository and disbursing agent whenever notified;
(7)
To perform all other duties essential to the proper conduct of the county's affairs which it has been necessary heretofore for the county treasurer to perform.
(b)
Said commissioners shall have the power and authority to prescribe from time to time other reasonable duties and regulations for the government of said depositories and disbursing agents, and said depositories and disbursing agents shall be just as much bound to observe the same as they are bound to observe those prescribed in this Act.
(Ga. Laws 1921, p. 456, §§ 5, 6; Code 1979, § 4-105)
State Law reference— Duties of treasurer, O.C.G.A. § 36-6-14.
Sec. 1-6-25. - Payment to depositories; legal payment.
After January 1, 1922, all parties heretofore required by law to pay over to the county treasurer funds of said county, including the tax collector of said county, shall pay over such funds to the depository so selected by said board of commissioners, and payment to said depository shall be as legal payment as when heretofore made to county treasurer.
(Ga. Laws 1921, p. 456, § 7; Code 1979, § 4-106)
Editor's note— Portion of above section of transitional nature has been omitted.
Sec. 1-6-26. - Appointment of individual to act.
In case said commissioners shall be unable to get a bank in said county to become such depository and disbursing agent, or in case it should come to pass that there should be no chartered bank in said county, then said commissioners shall have the authority to appoint some person as receiving and disbursing agent who is a resident of said county, whose duties and liabilities shall be the same as now required of county treasurers in Georgia, and said person so appointed shall give bond to the judge of probate of said county for the faithful performance of his duties, with security or securities to be approved by said judge of probate in a sum named by said commissioners, but not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). The compensation of said person shall be fixed by the said board of commissioners, but in no event shall it exceed the sum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per annum, and said salary or compensation shall be paid out of the funds of said county. All records necessary for him in the performance of his duties shall be provided by said commissioners out of the county funds. In the event a surety company bond is required of him, the premium on the same shall also be paid out of the county's funds by order of said commissioners. The paying of the bond premium and the furnishing of records as set out above applies only in the event it is necessary to select some person to act as said depository and disbursing agent. If a bank is found to act as such, it shall not charge to the county its bond premium, nor its expense in procuring the necessary records and the keeping of the same.
(Ga. Laws 1921, p. 456, § 8; Code 1979, § 4-107)
Sec. 1-6-27. - Term; removal for malfeasance.
The term of such depository and disbursing agent shall be for a period of four (4) years from January 1, 1922, and thereafterwards shall expire at the end of each four-year period, but shall extend by operation of law until a successor is appointed and qualified. For nonfeasance or malfeasance in office any bank or person performing the duties under this Act may be removed by said commissioners at any time and a successor appointed. Any person desiring to call the attention of said commissioners to any nonfeasance or malfeasance in office of said depository and disbursing agent, shall do so in writing and shall serve a copy on said depository and disbursing agent five (5) days before the hearing set by said commissioners.
(Ga. Laws 1921, p. 456, § 9; Code 1979, § 4-108)
Sec. 1-6-28. - Liability.
Said depository and disbursing agent, or depositories and disbursing agents, shall be liable both civilly and criminally just as county treasurers are now liable civilly and criminally for any nonfeasance, misfeasance or malfeasance of duty, and said commissioners shall have the right to proceed against such depository and disbursing agent, or depositories and disbursing agents, and the security or securities on their bonds in the same manner as the judge of probate may now proceed against a county treasurer and his securities in case of nonfeasance, misfeasance or malfeasance in the conduct of his offices.
(Ga. Laws 1921, p. 456, § 10; Code 1979, § 4-109)
