Chapter 2-6 - FINANCE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Bids, reports, purchasing agent, § 1-3-3; expenditures outside of county, §§ 2-2-22, 2-6-3; occupational licenses, § 2-10-2 et seq.; taxation, Ch. 2-16.

Sec. 2-6-1. - Local government investment pool.
(a)
Any one (1) of the following officers shall be authorized with discretion to make deposits to or withdrawals from the local government investment pool on behalf of this political subdivision in accordance with the applicable laws, policies and procedures: County administrator and finance director.
(b)
All local government investment pool transactions shall be wired to/from the following demand account of this political subdivision: First State Bank & Trust Company, Albany office, Dougherty County General Fund #25011194-06, Bank of the South, Atlanta.
(c)
Notification of change in the above stated authorizations shall be made by cancellation or replacement by new resolution to the Fiscal Division, Department of Administrative Services, P. O. Box 38198, Capitol Hill Station, Atlanta, Georgia 30384. Until notification of such change is received by the fiscal division, this section shall remain in full force and effect.
(Res. No. 85-006-B, §§ 1—3, 3-4-85)
State Law reference— Local government investment pool, O.C.G.A. § 36-83-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-6-2. - Deferred compensation plan for county employees.
(a)
The board of commissioners hereby adopts a restatement of the ACCG 457 Deferred Compensation Plan (Government Employee Benefits Corporation of Georgia) substantially in the form attached to Resolution 02-052 and by this reference fully incorporated herein. The purpose of said restatement is to adopt and comply with the Economic and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act, and all other lax laws and changes that have been enacted since the plan was established.
(b)
The chairman and county administrator of the board of commissioners of the county are hereby authorized to do all things necessary to carry out and accomplish the foregoing resolution and restatement of the ACCG 457 Deferred Compensation Plan, including the execution of any and all documents.
(Res. No. 82-014, §§ 1—3, 6-21-82; Res. No. 02-052, §§ I, II, 12-16-2002)
Editor's note— Res. No. 02-052, §§ I, II, adopted Dec. 16, 2002, adopted a restatement of the ACCG 457 deferred compensation plan. Such resolution did not specifically amend the Code; however, those provisions have been codified as superseding § 2-6-2. Res. No. 03-002, adopted Jan. 22, 2003, adopted Amendment No. 1 to the deferred compensation program. The compensation plan referenced in § 2-6-2 and the Amendment No. 1 are not set out at length herein, but are on file and available for inspection in the offices of the county administrator.
Sec. 2-6-3. - Reimbursable expenses.
The following standards and regulations are the established policy of this commission relative to reimbursable expenses incurred in travel and temporary duty away from the county:
(1)
All such travel shall be performed in the interest of and for the benefit of the county.
(2)
Department heads shall be responsible for determining the need for, and shall approve, travel requisitions for their respective employees.
(3)
The county administrator shall receive all travel requisitions from department heads and shall be responsible for providing advance funds when applicable and for final audit upon completion of the travel.
(4)
Reimbursable travel expenses shall be paid as follows:
a.
For travel by private conveyance, using standard state road maps for computing distances: Twenty-five cents ($0.25) per mile.
b.
For travel by common carrier: bus, rail or air: Actual cost of travel ticket. Note: Air travel will normally be at tourist rate.
c.
For travel by county vehicle. Only out-of-pocket expense for vehicle operating cost.
d.
Cost for lodging. Actual cost for single room as evidenced by paid receipt from the hotel or motel.
e.
Meals in conjunction with travel and lodging.
f.
Gratuities in conjunction with lodging or meals, not to exceed fifteen (15) percent of the actual cost of each meal.
g.
Registration fees for meetings or seminars related to county business.
h.
Parking fees in conjunction with meeting or seminar.
i.
Expense for personal habit or entertainment will not be reimbursed.
j.
Mode of travel will be most economical and expeditious available to meet the requirements of the county.
k.
When two (2) or more county employees travel together in private conveyance only, the owner shall receive mileage expenses.
l.
Request for travel shall be submitted on forms furnished by the county.
m.
The first duty day after completion of travel, the person performing the travel will complete the travel requisition form and submit it to the county administrator for final processing.
(Res. No. 85-003, § 1, 1-21-85; Res. No. 90-083, § 1, 12-3-90)
Cross reference— Reimbursable expenses of members of board of commissioners, §§ 2-2-22, 2-2-23.
Sec. 2-6-4. - Assignment and use of county vehicles.
The following standards and regulations shall be the established policy of this commission relative to the assignment and use of county vehicles:
(1)
County vehicles shall be assigned to departments based on justified needs as submitted in the annual budgetary process. As services or vehicular usage declines, departmental vehicle assignment may be adjusted according to need.
(2)
Police, emergency medical services and public works heavy equipment shall be assigned based on job need and hours of operation. Purchase of heavy equipment and seasonal use vehicles must be justified as cost-effective to renting or leasing for usable periods.
(3)
General purpose vehicles such as automobiles and pickup trucks shall be justified based on the following criteria:
a.
County administrator.
b.
Department heads responsible for supervising outside work on a continuing basis.
c.
Supervisors and foremen who daily supervise outside forces and subject to emergency call-out after normal working hours.
d.
Employees whose daily job duty requires transportation on a continuing basis during duty hours.
e.
Official carpools designed to coordinate full utilization of county vehicles. Carpools may be operated among more than one (1) department.
(4)
The following personnel are authorized to drive assigned vehicles to their place of residence:
a.
County administrator.
b.
Department heads responsible for supervising outside work forces on a continuing basis, as approved by the county administrator.
c.
Other personnel as approved by the county administrator.
(5)
Only employees with a valid Georgia Driver's License of applicable class are permitted to drive county vehicles. Use of county transportation requires strict observance to all traffic laws and highway courtesy.
(6)
Misuse of county vehicles or violation of this policy is cause for disciplinary action, which may include written reprimand, suspension or dismissal.
(7)
County vehicles are prohibited from leaving the confines of the county unless on official business. No vehicle assignment shall be made to drive a county vehicle to a place of residence for nights or weekends if said place of residence is or moves outside of the county. County vehicles and equipment shall not be used for personal business or pleasure at any time. County vehicles or equipment shall not be loaned to others or driven by persons not in the employ of county. Exception is that certain special purpose equipment may be loaned to another governmental unit for the benefit of the county with the approval of the county administrator.
(8)
Passengers in county vehicles shall be limited to county employees or persons who have official business with the county. Unauthorized personnel are forbidden from using or accompanying personnel at any time.
(9)
Maintenance, care and security of assigned vehicles will be the responsibility of the respective department heads. Said department heads will ensure that accurate records, maintenance reports and trip tickets, if required, are maintained for each vehicle. Preventive maintenance on a timely basis will be performed on all assigned vehicles. Vehicular accidents shall be reported promptly to the county administrator for insurance processing. The county administrator may appoint an accident review board to investigate and determine the cause of any accidents and recommend action to prevent recurrence.
(10)
The use of personal vehicles for county business either in county or out of county will be reimbursed at the rate of twenty cents ($0.20) per mile. Mileage of a personal nature will not be reimbursed. Prior approval by the department head and county administrator is required for use of personal vehicles for county business.
(Code 1979, § 1-4-41; Res. No. 79-168, § 1, 12-3-79)
Sec. 2-6-5. - Investments by county tax director.
The county tax director is authorized to make all legal investments of money under such director's custody and control.
(Res. No. 82-008, § 1, 3-1-82)
Sec. 2-6-6. - Defined benefit and retirement plan and trust.
(a)
The board of commissioners hereby adopts an amendment and restatement of the Dougherty County Defined Benefit Retirement Plan and Trust (the "Plan") substantially in the form of the plan document attached to Resolution 02-027 and by this reference fully incorporated herein. The purpose of said amendment and restatement is to adopt and comply with the tax qualification requirements enacted by the General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade, Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, the Small Business Job Protection Act of 1996, the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1998, the IRS Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 and the Community Renewal Tax Relief Act of 2000, and all other tax laws and changes that have been enacted since the plan was last amended, as such laws apply to tax-qualified government retirement plans.
(b)
The chairman and county administrator of the board of commissioners are hereby authorized to do all things necessary to carry out and accomplish the foregoing resolution and amendments to the plan, including the execution of any document or amendment which may be necessary or appropriate to maintain the qualification of the aforesaid plan under section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(Res. No. 02-027, §§ 1, 2, 6-24-2002)
Editor's note— Resolution No. 03-012, adopted June 2, 2003, adopted Amendment No. 1 to the county defined benefit retirement plan and trust. The plan referenced in § 2-6-6 and the Amendment No. 1 are not set out at length herein, but are on file and available for inspection in the offices of the county administrator.
