Chapter 2-9 - MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-9-1. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Accessory structure or use: A detached building or parcel of land necessary as an adjunct to the establishment of a mobile home park and services rendered to its occupants. Such term shall refer to travel trailers when in storage on a residential lot.
Adjoining property line: The boundary line between a mobile home park or a site occupied by a mobile home and property in another ownership, and shall, for the purpose of these regulations, include street, railroad or utility rights-of-way.
Alteration: The relocation of mobile homes within a park; also any change in the exterior dimensions of accessory structures.
Building permit: A duly authorized form signed by the building official authorizing the location of a mobile home or the construction of an accessory structure, cabana, sign or other improvement. Such permit shall be valid for a period of six (6) months and shall be accompanied by a plot plan showing the approved location of the mobile home or construction.
Cabana: A semi-permanent addition to a mobile home, measuring no greater than nine hundred (900) square feet.
Extension: The enlargement of a mobile home park by the provision of further utility and road improvements or the addition of mobile homes or trailers to the park, in excess of the number of improved sites existing at the time of the adoption of the enactment from which this section is derived.
Mobile home: A detached single-family dwelling unit, designed for a long-term occupancy, which has usually been prefabricated and then transported to its site or to a sales lot on its own wheels, on a detachable undercarriage, or on a flatbed or other trailer conveyance and requires only minor work before occupancy, such as connection to utilities or to a foundation. Such units are usually fully equipped and furnished as opposed to a prefabricated house.
Mobile home pad: The paved portion of a mobile home stand equal to the length and width of the mobile home placed on the stand.
Mobile home park: An operation which leases or rents spaces for permanent or for temporary occupancy for mobile homes and, under some conditions, travel trailers. Under no condition shall spaces be offered for sale.
Mobile home stand: The site designed for the placement of a mobile home and its cabana, accessory structures, utility connections and off-street parking facilities.
Mobile home subdivision: A subdivision of land intended for the sale of lots to individuals for the placement and occupancy of mobile homes. It shall comply with the subdivision regulations of the governing body.
Nonconforming trailer or mobile home: A unit occupied as a permanent residence which is located outside of the confines of an approved mobile home park or a subdivision designed and approved for mobile home living or a unit and its accessory structures which does not conform to a minimum construction or health standards required herein.
Nonconforming trailer or mobile home site: A site located on private property which does not conform to the general requirements set forth herein, or to zoning regulations adopted by the governing body. Such term shall also refer to trailer and mobile home sites or lots located within a park which do not comply with the requirements set forth herein.
Occupancy permit: A permit required for any mobile home not located within the confines of a mobile home park stating any conditions legally imposed by the building official or the board of zoning appeals.
Travel trailer: A vehicular portable structure of not more than eight (8) feet in width, when portable, designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation uses.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-3)
Sec. 2-9-2. - Jurisdiction.
These regulations shall govern the design and improvement of parks for mobile homes in the unincorporated area of the county. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, this chapter shall not be deemed to apply to mobile homes so long as the same are on a sales lot or on the premises of a mobile home manufacturer and are not occupied as residences.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-2)
Sec. 2-9-3. - Enforcement.
(a)
The provisions of these regulations shall be enforced by the building official. This official shall have the right to enter any premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inspections of buildings or premises necessary to carry out such official's duties in the enforcement of these regulations.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to occupy a mobile home until the building official has issued a building permit or issued an occupancy permit for such mobile home, unless such home meets the construction standards set forth herein and is located on a site as prescribed in section 2-9-6(5).
(Code 1979, § 6-3-4)
Sec. 2-9-4. - Amendment, etc.
These regulations may be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed by the governing body, but no proposed amendment or modification of these regulations shall be adopted unless such amendment or modification shall have been first submitted to the joint planning commission.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-5)
Sec. 2-9-5. - Punishment for violation.
Any person, whether as principal, agent, employee, broker or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of these regulations shall be punished as prescribed by law. Each day of the existence of any violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-6)
Sec. 2-9-6. - Mobile home requirements generally.
Any mobile home located and occupied as a residence in the unincorporated area of the county for a period exceeding forty-eight (48) hours shall be located within a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision meeting the requirements and minimum standards set forth herein. Mobile homes shall meet the following general requirements of the codes of the governing body:
(1)
Building and construction codes. No mobile home shall be admitted to any mobile home park or allowed to be placed in the unincorporated area of the county for a period exceeding forty-eight (48) hours unless it can be demonstrated that it meets the requirements of the county building, plumbing, gas and electrical codes, which codes are, insofar as they are applicable, made a part of these regulations to the same extent as though herein set out in full. The Mobile Homes Manufacturing Association and the Trailer Coach Association (MHMA-TCA) seals will be accepted as evidence of the trailer's construction meeting local building and construction codes. Cabanas and other accessory structures shall require a building permit and shall meet all local building and construction codes.
(2)
Park operator required to inspect. It shall be the responsibility of the park operator to inspect mobile homes being placed within the confines of the park and such operator's jurisdiction prior to the placement of the mobile home on its stand and the connection of utilities and occupancy of the mobile home. If the condition of the mobile home is questionable, the park operator shall inform the building official who shall inspect the mobile home prior to its occupancy. There shall be no fee charged for this inspection service.
(3)
Annual inspections. At least once each year the building official at such official's convenience, shall inspect each mobile home park and the mobile homes within the park, to determine compliance with county codes.
(4)
Health. Prior to the allowance of permanent occupancy of a mobile home in the unincorporated area of the county, such mobile home shall be connected with an approved water source and an approved sewage disposal method, in such a manner as to comply with the Georgia State Human Resources Department regulations and the state health laws (Official Code of Georgia Annotated, Title 31) and the Water Quality Control Act (Official Code of Georgia Annotated, section 12-5-20 et seq.) which regulations and laws are, insofar as they are applicable, hereby made a part of these regulations to the same extent as though herein set out in full.
(5)
Occupancy. Occupancy of a mobile home within the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be as follows:
a.
Mobile home park. In the event a mobile home is placed in a mobile home park, it shall conform to the site arrangements for its site with respect to location, utilities and registration. It shall be the responsibility of the park operator to inspect the installation of the mobile home prior to allowing its occupancy. It shall be the operator's further responsibility to maintain a dated log book indicating the name of the mobile home owner, the name of its occupants, its license, if so equipped, and whether it has a MHMA or TCA seal for each mobile home within the park. Said log shall be available for inspection by authorities of the governing body.
b.
Mobile home subdivision. In the event a mobile home is placed within a mobile subdivision, a building permit and inspection of the foundation and utility provisions and the mobile home's construction and wiring, and plumbing, shall be required prior to the placement of the home on its foundation or the connections of the utilities. No mobile home shall be placed upon such a lot, nor shall utilities be connected to the mobile home, until an inspection has been made, and site foundation and utilities shall have been approved by the building official.
(6)
Nonconforming mobile homes. All mobile homes located in the unincorporated area of the county at the time of the adoption of the enactment from which this section is derived, but not in conformity with its provisions, are hereby declared nonconforming. If occupied space or location is vacated for a period of six (6) months, said location or space is declared to be abandoned and shall not be leased, rented or occupied by any use other than a conforming use.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-21)
Sec. 2-9-7. - Mobile home "hardship" variance.
(a)
The board of commissioners has adopted a policy of allowing a variance in its zoning regulations for the purpose of medical hardships only, by allowing in extreme cases only, mobile homes to be utilized in areas zoned for other purposes. The variance allowed is temporary only and shall be brought before the board annually for reconsideration. All prior variances and exemptions allowed shall continue to be reconsidered annually with the exception that the criteria for renewal shall only require medical proof of a continuing medical total disability and a continuing need for care by the applicant or person to be cared for by the applicant.
(b)
All citizens requesting mobile home hardship exemptions in zoning must complete the county authorized request form, furnishing all information contained therein, under oath.
(c)
The current authorized exemption for "hardship" is for total disability which requires the assistance of others on a continuing basis.
(d)
The determination of a "hardship," which is solely at the discretion of the board of commissioners, shall have as minimum criteria the following:
(1)
A sketch or drawing of the proposed location of the mobile home showing the relation to any other existing structure and to any existing county-or state-maintained road.
(2)
A statement from two (2) or more adjacent landowners, stating whether they are either for or against this request.
(3)
A medical "hardship" form completed and signed by any licensed physician of any state in the United States; the form to be furnished by the county.
(4)
An impact statement from the joint planning staff as to the impact of a mobile home in the location requested.
(5)
A statement from the applicant showing why other means of care, such as nursing home, cannot be utilized.
(Res. No. 82-041, §§ 1—5, 12-20-82)
Secs. 2-9-8—2-9-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MOBILE HOME PARKS AND SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 2-9-20. - Continuation of existing mobile home parks.
All existing mobile home parks containing two (2) or more acres of land and six (6) or more improved and occupied stands at the time of the adoption of the enactment from which this section is derived, are hereby declared to be conforming and shall be allowed to continue to exist and operate as presently designed and improved until expended or abandoned. However, such mobile home parks shall at all times conform to minimum health and sanitation codes of county and state governments.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-31(1))
Sec. 2-9-21. - Nonconforming mobile home parks because of size.
Mobile home parks containing less than six (6) improved mobile home stands at the time of adoption of the enactment from which this section is derived are hereby declared to be nonconforming. If mobile home stands or spaces are vacated for a period of six (6) months, those stands or spaces are declared abandoned, and shall not be leased, rented or occupied by any use other than a conforming use.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-31(7))
Sec. 2-9-22. - Compliance by new mobile home parks.
From and after the adoption of the enactment from which this section is derived, each new or expanded mobile home park development shall be presented in plan form, meeting the requirements for plats in local subdivision regulations for approval by the joint planning commission and shall conform to the minimum design and improvement standards required herein.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-31(2))
Sec. 2-9-23. - Conditional approval—Submitting plan.
(a)
A person desiring to develop a mobile home park within the jurisdiction of this chapter shall provide nine (9) copies of a plan drawn to scale of a proposed layout, which shall conform to the minimum requirements stated herein, to the planning commission for conditional approval, prior to the issuance of a construction permit for a mobile home park.
(b)
Such plans shall be prepared and submitted to the planning commission within ten (10) working days of the meeting in which the owner desires a hearing and review.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-31)
Sec. 2-9-24. - Same—Required before construction and improvements.
No construction or public improvements shall commence on any land to be used as a mobile home park prior to conditional approval of its plan by the planning commission and the governing authority. After conditional approval of a plan has been granted to a mobile home park, if within three (3) years, the development has not taken place, the approval will then be null and void. Conditional approval shall not constitute approval of the final plat; rather, it shall be deemed as expression of approval of the layout and design which the developer has proposed.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-31(3), (5)(c))
Sec. 2-9-25. - Presenting final plat.
Upon completion of the required improvements provided herein, the developer shall submit to the planning commission nine (9) copies of the final plat, drawn to scale and showing the location of the required improvements. The developer shall provide a letter of intent, stating that all minimum improvements have been met and that the mobile home park is available for occupancy.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-31(4))
Sec. 2-9-26. - Expansion of existing mobile home parks.
A person desiring to expand an existing mobile home park to include more mobile home sites than are accommodated within such a park at the time this regulation was adopted shall submit plans and specifications for such improvements to the planning commission for conditional approval prior to initiating construction and improvements. Improvements, reconstruction and redesign of existing parks, required by the planning commission, shall conform to these regulations and shall be limited to those necessary to make access, utility service and design of both the new and old portion of the park compatible.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-31(6))
Sec. 2-9-27. - Minimum area of tract; minimum street frontage.
A mobile home park shall have as a minimum size, five (5) acres and shall front upon a highway or platted street which shall have a minimum right-of-way of sixty (60) feet and shall conform to section 2-9-30(4).
(Code 1979, § 6-3-32(1))
Sec. 2-9-28. - Minimum number of spaces.
A mobile home park shall have as a minimum, fifteen (15) spaces prepared with all improvements in place prior to final approval. The planning commission may allow development of a park in stages or parcels according to an approved construction plan.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-32(2))
Sec. 2-9-29. - Length of residential occupancy.
No space within a mobile home park, except as provided herein, shall be rented for residential use of a mobile home except for periods of thirty (30) days or more; provided, however, in the event a mobile home park fronts on a state or federal highway and the park owner desires to lease space for travel trailers or for short-term occupancy of a mobile home, the park shall prepare and reserve an area containing a minimum of six (6) spaces improved for temporary use in an area separate and screened from the view of spaces leased for permanent occupancy.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-32(3))
Sec. 2-9-30. - Design.
The design of a mobile home park shall conform to the following design requirements:
(1)
Setback. The mobile home park shall be designed so that mobile homes and their accessory structures shall be a minimum distance of:
SETBACK PER STAND IN FEET
EXPAND
Front and
Corner Lots Side Total
Side Rear
25 feet 6 feet 15 feet 30 feet
  (2)
Minimum stand size. The mobile home park shall be designed in such a manner that each mobile home stand will not have less than the following minimum requirements:
a.
Community water and community sewage—four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet.
b.
Community water and septic tank—eight thousand (8,000) square feet.
c.
Individual water and septic tank—one (1) acre.
(3)
Typical stand layout. The developer will provide, along with the plans submitted for conditional approval and final approval, a typical mobile home stand layout, using a sixty-foot mobile home as typical rental. Dimensions and setback shall be designated on the plat in order to insure conformity to subsection (1) of this section.
(4)
Access. If the mobile home park does not front on a public road, then the mobile home park shall be provided with a sixty-foot roadway (private) connecting the park to a county maintained road. Each mobile home site and its parking area shall have direct access to the internal street system of the park.
(5)
Streets. Streets dedicated to public use shall be planned and developed in accordance with the subdivision regulations. In general, however, streets within a mobile home park shall be privately owned, constructed and maintained. Such private streets shall be well drained, provided with a minimum paved surface of ten (10) feet for one-way streets, and twenty (20) feet for two-way streets, with on-street parking prohibited, and meeting the standards established by the governing authority.
Cross reference— As to subdivision regulations, see § 2-15-1.
(6)
Parking. Each mobile home stand shall be provided with a minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces. Parking on the interior streets within a park is hereby prohibited. The required front yard may be used for parking; however, required side and rear yards may not be utilized for parking.
(7)
Density. A maximum of ten (10) mobile home stands per acre or fifteen (15) travel trailer stands per acre is allowed.
(8)
Recreation. A minimum of five (5) percent of the gross site area of a mobile home park shall be devoted to recreational facilities. The designated area shall be provided with an acceptable fence with a minimum height of three (3) feet.
(9)
Mobile home pad. Each mobile home stand shall be provided with a paved surface equal to the length and width of the mobile home for which the stand is designed. Improvements must meet the standards established by the governing authority.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-33)
Sec. 2-9-31. - Park improvements.
Mobile home parks constructed or reconstructed shall be provided with the following minimum improvements:
(1)
Sewerage. The mobile home park shall be provided with a sewerage collection system, designed to comply with the state department of human resources requirements, so that each mobile home stand structure can be serviced.
SEPTIC TANK REQUIREMENT—MINIMUM
Individual hookup .....   800 gallons
Dual hookup ..... 1,500 gallons
Drain field layout dependent on county health department approval.
(2)
Water. A potable water supply meeting state department of human resources requirements shall be provided by the park operator.
(3)
Easements. Publicly dedicated easements of proper size for their intended purpose shall be provided within the park if individual mobile home stands and accessory park uses are to be serviced by a public utility system.
(4)
Utility placement. All water, sewer, electric or gas lines shall be buried a minimum of twenty-four (24) inches below the finished ground surface of the park and shall be provided with adequate valve systems to allow the cut-off of utility service to a mobile home stand at the mobile home stand and at the entrance of the utility service from the stand to the trunk line of a utility system. If overhead service lines are provided within the park, such lines shall be a minimum of eighteen (18) feet above the grade of interior streets (except that a ten-foot minimum be maintained at the service entrance) and so that no wires extend over a mobile home stand.
(5)
Lighting. All recreation areas, park entrances, park streets and pedestrian easements shall be illuminated to at least three-tenths footcandles.
(6)
Garbage and refuse. The park shall be provided with a garbage collection service which maintains a collection schedule of at least two (2) minimum collections per week. Adequate containers, maintained in a rodent proof and vermin proof condition shall be easily accessible to or within each mobile home stand, and in sufficient number and placement for recreation areas. Refuse collection shall also be provided on a weekly basis to remove debris from the park and recreation areas. Refuse on occupied mobile home stands shall be the responsibility of the occupants and shall be removed to designated spaces. Open burning of trash shall not be permitted. Incinerators, if provided, shall comply with governmental regulations.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-34)
Sec. 2-9-32. - Stand improvements.
Each mobile home stand shall be provided with the following minimum requirements:
(1)
Interior street access. Each stand shall be provided with access frontage of at least thirty (30) feet.
(2)
Garbage cans. Each stand shall be provided with durable flytight, watertight, rodentproof containers of at least twenty (20) gallons and not more than thirty (30) gallons capacity. A garbage can rack designed to prevent rodent harborage and to allow for easy cleaning shall be provided by the park operator.
(3)
Electric power supply. Each stand shall be provided with an adequate, properly grounded, water-proofed, electrical receptacle with a minimum rated capacity of one hundred (100) amperes. A properly sized over current device shall be installed as a part of each power outlet.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-35)
Sec. 2-9-33. - Mobile home subdivisions.
Subdivisions designed and specifically restricted to mobile home occupancy shall be platted and developed under procedures established and required under the subdivision regulations.
(Code 1979, § 6-3-36)
Cross reference— As to subdivision regulations, see § 2-15-1.
Secs. 2-9-33—2-9-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MOBILE HOME LOCATION PERMIT

Sec. 2-9-61. - Title.
This article shall be known as "The Dougherty County Mobile Home Location Permit Ordinance."
(Res. No. 01-020, § I, 6-18-2001)
Sec. 2-9-62. - Mobile home location permits/decal.
(a)
All persons owning a mobile home based in the county on January 1 of each year shall obtain from the county tax commissioner a mobile home location permit before May 1, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492. The issuance of the permit by the county tax commissioner shall be evidenced by the issuance of a decal, the color of which shall be prescribed for each year by the Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Revenue. Each decal will reflect the county of issuance and the calendar year for which the permit is issued. This requirement pertains to all mobile homes, including those exempt from taxation by homestead exemption or other provisions of state law.
(b)
Such decals shall be affixed to the mobile homes in such a manner as to cause them to be easily visible for inspection.
(c)
Owners of mobile homes locating in the county after January 1 of any year shall report their mobile home to the county tax department within ten (10) working days.
(Res. No. 01-020, § II, 6-18-2001)
Sec. 2-9-63. - Reports by mobile home park operators.
(a)
Every owner, manager and operator of a mobile home park is required to give the county tax department an inventory of all mobile homes based in the park as of January 1 of each year. This shall be done no later than January 15 of each year.
(b)
Every owner, manager and operator of a mobile home park shall furnish to the county tax department a lot map of each park. The lot map is to be furnished by January 15, 2002 and any future changes shall be reported by January 15 of each successive year.
(c)
Every owner, manager and operator of a mobile home park is required to notify the county tax department of any change in ownership or name of any mobile home park within thirty (30) days of such change.
(Res. No. 01-020, § III, 6-18-2001)
Sec. 2-9-64. - Transport of mobile homes without decal.
(a)
No person shall move or transport any mobile home which is required to and which does not have attached and displayed thereon the decal provided for in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492 and section 2-9-62 of this article.
(Res. No. 01-020, § IV, 6-18-2001)
Sec. 2-9-65. - Enforcement.
(a)
Any person who violates either section 2-9-62 or 2-9-63 of this article shall be punished by a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), except that upon receipt of proof of purchase of a decal prior to the date of the date of the issuance of a summons, the fine shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(b)
Any person who violates section 2-9-64 of this article shall be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(c)
Violations of any section of this article may be prosecuted in the Magistrate Court of Dougherty County in the manner prescribed for the enforcement of county ordinances set forth in Article 4 of Chapter 10 of Title 15 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(Res. No. 01-020, § V, 6-18-2001)
