ARTICLE VIII. - YARD SALES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-316. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Yard sale means the sale, exchange or trade of clothing, furniture, household items, food, dishes, antiques, similar goods or merchandise by persons not regularly engaged in the business of such sales on a residentially zoned lot or parcel within the city. Such term includes, but is not limited to, all sales entitled "yard sales," "garage sales," "lawn sales," "attic sales," "rummage sales" or any similar casual sale of tangible property which is advertised by any means whereby the public at-large is or can be aware of such sale.
Sec. 22-317. - Exceptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to and affect the following:
(1)
Any person selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2)
Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(3)
Yard sales that are conducted on public property, which have been approved by the mayor and city council.
Sec. 22-318. - Parking of vehicles.
The person in charge of the premises upon which a yard sale is conducted shall control the parking of vehicles of patrons so as to avoid congestion and hazardous conditions. Failure to control such parking of vehicles shall be sufficient cause for the yard sale to be immediately terminated.
Secs. 22-319—22-340. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 22-341. - Required.
(a)
Any person who owns the property upon which a yard sale will take place, any person conducting the yard sale and any person participating as a seller in the yard sale must obtain a permit from the city clerk prior to the date of the yard sale.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, conduct or participate as a seller in a yard sale within the city without first obtaining a permit from the licensing and billing clerk.
(c)
Each permit issued under this division must be promptly displayed on the premises upon which the yard sale is conducted throughout the entire period of the permitted yard sale.
(d)
No person can obtain more than two permits per 12-month period without payment of the required fee as set forth in section 22-347.
(e)
No person may obtain more than four permits per 12-month period without the approval of the city manager.
Sec. 22-342. - Applications.
At the time any person makes a request for the issuance of a permit under this division, the clerk shall obtain the following information:
(1)
Name of the person that will be conducting the yard sale.
(2)
Name of the owner of the property upon which the yard sale will be conducted.
(3)
Location at which the yard sale will be conducted.
(4)
Names of any persons who will be participating as a seller in the yard sale.
(5)
Date of the yard sale.
Sec. 22-343. - Duration; time.
Permits issued under this division shall only be valid for 72 consecutive hours. Yard sales can only be conducted within the time authorized by the permit.
Sec. 22-344. - Interruption of sale.
If a permit holder under this division commences a yard sale and the yard sale is interrupted or terminated for any reason, the permit holder shall not be allowed to restart the yard sale after the initial 72 hours without first obtaining an additional permit under this division.
Sec. 22-345. - Return; replacement.
If a permit has been issued for a yard sale, but the permit holder does not commence the yard sale for any reason, the permit holder may return the permit to the city clerk and the city clerk will issue a replacement permit at the time requested by the permit holder.
Sec. 22-346. - Maximum number per year.
The number of yard sales allowed per 12-month period under this article is as follows:
(1)
Residential property. Four yard sales per year will be allowed on residentially zoned property.
(2)
Church/civic/nonprofit organization property. Four yard sales per year will be allowed on church, civic or nonprofit organization property.
(3)
Commercial/industrial property. One yard sale per year will be allowed on commercially/industrially zoned property.
Sec. 22-347. - Fees.
(a)
If a yard sale is conducted on residential property or church/civic/nonprofit organization property, two permits may be obtained during a 12-month period without payment of a fee. The remaining two permits allowed per 12-month period will be issued upon payment to the clerk of a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
If a yard sale is conducted on commercial/industrial property or public property, a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk will be paid to the clerk.
(c)
Permit fees paid under this section are nonrefundable. If a permit holder does not use the permit for the yard sale, a replacement permit will be issued, but the fee paid will not be reimbursed.
Secs. 22-348—22-360. - Reserved.
