Chapter 34 - COURT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; civil emergencies, ch. 30; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 70; traffic and vehicles, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Contracts to furnish municipal court services authorized, O.C.G.A. § 15-7-80 et seq.; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.; establishment of municipal courts authorized and jurisdiction thereof, Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Election, duties, jurisdiction of municipal court judge.
The office of judge of the municipal court is created to be filled by the election of the mayor and council. In addition, the office of judge of the municipal court pro tempore is created also to be filled by election of the mayor and council. Both the judge of the municipal court and judge pro tempore shall serve as the pleasure of the mayor and council. It shall be the duty of the judge of the municipal court to preside over the city court, known as the municipal court, with full and complete authority to try and dispose of all cases. The judge of the municipal court pro tempore shall serve in the absence or disqualification of the judge of the municipal court.
(Code 1976, § 10-1001)
Sec. 34-2. - Sessions.
(a)
A municipal court shall be convened and held at the direction of the municipal court judge and approved by the city manager.
(b)
The regular weekly convening days or hour, may be changed by the judge of the municipal court when, in his discretion, such change may be necessary. In addition, additional sessions of the court may be scheduled and held at the discretion of the judge.
Sec. 34-3. - Duties of police officers—Persons violating city ordinances.
Any police officer of the city shall arrest and confine in the county jail or other suitable facility or jail, when necessary, any offender against ordinances of the city, where such arrest and confinement is necessary to secure such offender's appearance before the municipal court to answer for his offense, or where it is necessary to preserve the peace and order of the city; or such police officer may take bond as otherwise provided in section 34-51.
Sec. 34-4. - Same—Persons violating certain state laws.
Any person who shall, in the presence of any police officer, violate any penal laws of this state not punishable by city ordinances shall be arrested with or without a warrant and be carried before a committing magistrate for examination and prosecution.
Sec. 34-5. - Docket.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of the municipal court to keep a docket showing the disposition of all cases brought before the municipal court. At the trial of all cases, the clerk shall record opposite the statement of the case the punishment inflicted and the date; and an entry shall be made under the sentence of the judge of the municipal court showing the final disposition of the case, that is whether the fine, if any, was collected, the date of such collection, and the disposition of such amounts.
Sec. 34-6. - Warrant or summons; issuance.
It shall be the duty of any member of the police department, or where appropriate, city marshals, sanitation marshals, fire marshals, inspection officials and members of the county animal control staff in all cases where complaint is made or information obtained of any violation of any laws or ordinances of the city, to issue an accusation/summons in the name of the city and directed to the accused, requiring him to appear before the municipal court to answer such charge, which accusation/summons shall designate the time and place of trial. It shall be signed by the officer issuing the accusation/summons; and a copy shall be served upon the accused, either personally or by leaving a copy at his place of residence by the issuing officer.
Sec. 34-7. - Service of summons generally.
A summons directed to any offender shall be served personally by some member of the city police department.
Sec. 34-8. - Procedure for service of process on corporations.
(a)
In addition to any other means provided by law, corporations may be served in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(b)
Whenever any charges shall be preferred against a corporation doing business in the city for violation of this Code or any other ordinance of the city, the city clerk shall issue an original and copy notice to the defendant corporation for charges against such corporation, specifying the time when such charges will be heard by the municipal court, which copy notice shall be served by the chief of police or any police officer of the city, or the sheriff of the county, at least five days before the time fixed for trial in the municipal court upon such corporation to be found in the city or upon any agent of the corporation, or employee in charge of the business of such corporation in the city. The officer serving such copy notice shall make an entry of such service on the original notice and return the notice to the municipal court. Such service shall be service upon the corporation; and such case shall, upon the return of such notice as provided in this section, stand for trial before the municipal court at the time stated in the notice.
Sec. 34-9. - Issuance of summons.
Whenever the attendance of any witness may be required before the municipal court to establish any fact, the city clerk shall issue a subpoena or summons directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial and the parties of the case, which shall be served as other process by the chief of police or any other officer or police officer.
Sec. 34-10. - Failure of defendant to appear at trial; failure to plead; entry of plea; conviction.
At a time fixed for trial in municipal court, if a defendant corporation fails to appear, or appearing fails to plead, the municipal court judge or other officer presiding over the municipal court shall cause to be entered a plea of not guilty; and the trial shall proceed as though the defendant had appeared and pleaded. Upon the conviction of any corporation in such trial, there shall be rendered a judgment against it for the fine imposed, upon which an execution shall issue, signed by the municipal judge and city clerk in favor of the city against the property of the defendant corporation.
Sec. 34-11. - Contempt for failure of witness to appear.
If any person summoned as a witness in any proceeding in the municipal court shall fail, neglect or refuse to attend trial, or render an excuse, sufficient in the judgment of the judge of the municipal court, the defaulting witness shall be liable for a fine as provided in section 1-11. If the cause shall be continued on account of the absence of the witness, the court may issue attachment against the witness, requiring him to show cause on the day appointed for trial why he should not be further dealt with for contempt. The chief of police shall, by virtue of the attachment, arrest such witness, or cause him to be arrested by some other officer or police officer and shall confine him so as to have him before the court at such time as may be appointed for further hearing on the original complaint.
(Code 1976, § 10-1003)
Sec. 34-12. - Continuances.
When the ends of justice may require it, all cases may be continued. Applications for continuance shall be addressed in the sound discretion of the court, under the rules governing in superior courts of this state. All motions in the municipal court for a continuance of any case where the defendant is at liberty on bond shall be made by the defendant, his attorney at law, or his attorney in fact, which designation shall not include the surety of his appearance bond. No motion to continue a case shall be entertained except in open court and on the day set for trial. Where an appearance bond has been forfeited and the forfeiture subsequently set aside for cause, no further motion to continue the case for trial shall be entertained until the forfeiture fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk have been paid.
Sec. 34-13. - Rules of practice.
The city shall have the opening and conclusion in each case unless the defendant introduces no evidence. The defendant shall then be entitled to the conclusion. The city shall announce first if it is ready for trial and, if not, it shall be held as a strict showing for continuances as the defendant. The rules of evidence and examination of witness shall be the same as in superior courts, so far as such rules are applicable to the case on trial. All officers, informers and persons injured shall be competent witnesses. In general, the municipal court shall be controlled by the rules of practice governing superior courts so far as they are applicable to municipal court and by sound construction of the Charter and ordinances of the city.
Sec. 34-14. - Guilty pleas.
Any party charged with violation of any provision of this Code of Ordinances may file his plea of guilty under such rules as the court may direct. Upon a plea of guilty, the court shall pass sentence or judgment of the case as may appear reasonable and proper.
Sec. 34-15. - Minimum costs; working out.
In case of some conviction in the municipal court, the cost assessable shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges as noted in Exhibit A, Cash Bond Schedule for Traffic and Exhibit B, Cash Bond Schedule for Criminal, and Exhibit C, Cash Bond for Nuisance and Business, and will be kept in the office of the municipal court clerk. The costs shall go into the general fund of the City of Valdosta for general municipal purposes. Defendants unable to pay costs and compelled in lieu of payment to work on the public streets shall each be required to work sufficient time to cover costs.
(Code 1976, § 10-1011; Ord. No. 2017-14, 6-22-2017)
Sec. 34-16. - Contempt.
Any person who, during a session of the municipal court, shall be guilty of contempt of court, or who refuses to abide by any sentence or order of the court, shall be punished for contempt of court. The maximum penalty for contempt shall be as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1976, § 10-1003)
Sec. 34-17. - Municipal court technology fee.
(a)
Creation and purpose. The City of Valdosta hereby creates a municipal court technology fee ("technology fee") to assist in the provision of technological needs of the court including, but not limited to, computer hardware, computer software, imaging, scanning, facsimile, communication, printing and courtroom visual media. The Municipal Court for the City of Valdosta shall be entitled to collect, the technology fee for each criminal action, traffic action and violation of city ordinance.
(b)
Amount. The technology fee shall be $2.50.
(c)
Imposition. The technology fee shall be imposed upon each citation that results in: (1) a conviction; (2) accepted guilty plea; (3) accepted plea of nolo contendere; or (4) bond forfeiture or voluntary payment of fine. In the event of multiple citations against a defendant arising from the same transaction and occurrence, the technology fee shall be imposed on each separate citation which is resolved in accordance with the forgoing. Mandatory state add-ons shall be calculated based on the sum of the underlying fine and the technology fee.
(d)
Applicability. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the technology fee shall not apply to offenses exempt from add-on fees by state law, nor shall the technology fee cause the total amount of fines to exceed that allowed by state law or the Charter of the City of Valdosta.
(e)
Maintenance. The technology fee shall be appropriately collected and reported to the city manager or his designee and maintained separately from other city accounts. Accumulated technology fees shall be used exclusively for the purposes provided herein.
(Ord. No. 2015-29, 11-19-2015)
Secs. 34-18—34-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - APPEARANCE BOND

Sec. 34-51. - Discretion of officer on duty as to certain bonds.
When any arrest is made, the police chief or his designee may take bond with or without security, and, in his discretion, payable to the city, in any sum not exceeding state limits for the appearance of any person accused or suspected of being guilty of the violation of any provisions of this Code or ordinance of the city to stand to and abide his trial, and also of witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced.
Sec. 34-52. - Persons refusing to give bond.
If any arrested person or necessary witness shall fail to give the bond and security required of him such person so refusing may be confined in the county jail, or be kept under guard so as to be present at his trial or to testify, as the case may be.
Sec. 34-53. - Designation of bail; procedure upon failure of bonded person to appear.
Upon failure of any principal in any bond to appear where such principal is charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this Code or other ordinances of the city, or upon the failure of any principal who is a witness to appear and testify as engaged, the judge of the municipal court shall issue a rule nisi requiring the principal and sureties on such bond or recognizance to show cause before him on a day certain named in the rule nisi why they should not be required to pay amount of such bond or recognizance and all costs of forfeiture.
(Code 1976, § 10-1021)
Sec. 34-54. - Service of rule to show cause.
Any member of the police force of the city shall serve a copy of the rule described in section 34-53 upon the principal and surety, if to be found in the city, personally or by leaving a copy at their usual place of abode, at least five days before the time named in the rule nisi for hearing on the matter.
(Code 1976, § 10-1023)
Sec. 34-55. - Entry of judgment against delinquent principal and sureties.
If no sufficient cause is shown to the contrary, the judge of the municipal court shall proceed to enter a judgment against the principal and sureties for the amount of such bond and costs; and the city clerk shall issue execution for the amount of the judgment and costs, which execution shall bear teste in the name of the judge, and place the execution in the hands of the city marshal, who shall proceed to collect the execution by levy and sale.
(Code 1976, § 10-1023)
Sec. 34-56. - Delivery of principal prior to judgment and forfeiture; release of surety.
Any surety upon any bail bond of any person charged with a violation of any provision of this Code or other ordinance of the city may surrender his principal at any time before forfeiture to the chief of police, who shall confine such principal until discharged by order of the municipal court, or until such principal shall give other good and acceptable security; and the delivery of the principal by the surety shall discharge such surety from all liability upon the bond.
Sec. 34-57. - Sureties residing beyond the county.
No officer of the city shall accept on any bail bond any surety residing beyond the limits of the county, except as authorized by the city council; but if he shall do so, the surety will be bound, and, upon entry of judgment against such surety, the judgment shall be collected as provided by law.
Sec. 34-58. - Disposition of money pledges.
If the person arrested shall fail to appear at the place and time of trial so appointed, it shall be the duty of the judge of the municipal court to declare any pledge forfeited and to order the money to be paid into the city treasury as in other fines and forfeitures if it has not already been deposited in such treasury. If the person so arrested shall appear as engaged and is adjudged not guilty, the money and the property thus deposited shall be ordered by the court delivered up to the person making the deposit. Should any accused person be adjudged guilty and fined, the amount of the fine and costs of the trial shall be paid into the city treasury and the remainder, if any, refunded to the accused or to the person entitled to the fine and costs.
(Code 1976, § 10-1033)
Secs. 34-59—34-80. - Reserved.
