Chapter 34 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 62; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 78; traffic and vehicles, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Authorization of the Magistrate Court to impose and collect law library fees.
For the purposes of providing funds for those uses specified in Code Section 36-15-7 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the chief magistrate of the magistrate court of Thomas County is authorized to impose a county law library fee upon all cases in such court as authorized and defined in Code Section 36-15-9 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, in addition to all other legal costs.
The amount of the fee to be imposed shall be no greater than the sum authorized in Code Section 36-15-9 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(Amd. of 4-26-16)
Secs. 34-2—34-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT FOR SUPERIOR COURT JUDGES

Sec. 34-26. - Authorization.
Pursuant to the authority of O.C.G.A. § 47-9-77 (1982 Ga. Laws, page 1568):
(1)
Whenever any former judge of the superior courts of the southern judicial circuit of Georgia, or his beneficiary, shall receive any benefit pursuant to Title 47 Chapter 9 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, [O.C.G.A. § 47-9-1 et seq.], the county shall, from its general funds, pay a supplement to such benefits which shall be in the same proportion to the aforesaid benefits as the salary supplement paid to an active judge of the superior courts of the southern judicial circuit by the county bears to the state salary of active superior court judges; provided, however, that no such benefit supplement shall be paid by the county unless the former judge shall have contributed as provided in subsection (2) below.
(2)
Any active judge of the superior courts of the southern judicial circuit desiring to receive the above-described benefit supplement shall contribute to the county five percent of the amount paid by the county as the regular salary supplement for active superior court judges so long as such judge remains an active superior court judge. The sum of five percent shall be deducted from the regular salary supplement paid to the judge by the county each pay period so long as such judge remains an active superior court judge.
(3)
Any supplemental benefits authorized to be paid pursuant to this section shall be paid in equal monthly installments.
(Res. of 2-10-87)
State Law reference— Superior court judges retirement system, O.C.G.A. § 47-9-1 et seq.
