Chapter 14 - AVIATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22; fire prevention and protection, ch. 46.
State Law reference— Acquisition, construction and maintenance of airports by counties, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.; powers of counties as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25; authorization to enforce police regulations in airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-27.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AIRPORT ZONING

Sec. 14-26. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Thomas County Airport Height and Hazard Ordinance.
(Ord. of 11-13-84(2), § I)
Sec. 14-27. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Airport means the Thomasville Municipal Airport.
Airport elevation means 264 feet above mean sea level.
Approach surface means a surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in section 14-29. In plane the perimeter of the approach surface coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
Approach, transitional, horizontal and conical zones. These zones are set forth in section 14-28.
Conical surface means a surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to one for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
Hazard to air navigation means an obstruction determined to have a substantial adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
Height. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this article and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
Horizontal surface means a horizontal plane 150 feet above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which plane coincides with the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
Larger than utility runway means a runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
Nonconforming use means any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this article or an amendment thereto.
Nonprecision instrument runway means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
Obstruction means any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section 14-29.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock association or government entity; includes a trustee, a receiver, an assignee or a similar representative of any of them.
Precision instrument runway means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing an instrument or microwave landing system (ILS/MLS) or a precision approach radar (PAR) or microwave. It also means a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan or any other planning document.
Primary surface means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; for military runways or when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set forth in section 14-28. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
Runway means a defined area on an airport prepared for the landing and takeoff of aircraft along its length.
Structure means an object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by man, including but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks, earth formation and overhead transmission lines.
Transitional surfaces means surfaces which extend outward at 90-degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach surface and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
Tree means any object of natural growth.
Utility runway means a runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by propeller driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
Visual runway means a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using visual approach procedures.
(Ord. of 11-13-84(2), § I)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-28. - Airport zones.
In order to carry out the provisions of this article, there are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces and conical surfaces as they apply to Thomasville Municipal Airport. Such zones are shown on the Thomasville Municipal Airport and Vicinity Plan (also known as the zoning map) consisting of one sheet, which is made a part hereof and is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners. An area located in more than one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
(1)
Utility runway visual approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 250 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,250 feet to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(2)
Runway larger than utility visual approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 1,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(3)
Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum greater than three-fourths mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(4)
Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum as low as three-fourths mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 4,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(5)
Precision instrument runway approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(6)
Transitional zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath the transitional surfaces.
(7)
Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of 5,000 feet radii for all runways designated utility of visual and 10,000 feet for all others from the center of each end of the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
(8)
Conical zone. The conical zone is established as the area that commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
(Ord. of 11-13-84(2), § II)
Sec. 14-29. - Airport zone height limitations.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, no structure shall be erected, altered or maintained and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by this article to a height in excess of the applicable height established in this section for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in question as follows:
(1)
Utility runway visual approach zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(2)
Runway larger than utility visual approach zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(3)
Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum as greater than three-fourths mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. Slopes 34 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(4)
Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum as low as three-fourths mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. Slopes 34 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(5)
Precision instrument runway approach zone. Slopes 50 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(6)
Transitional zones. Slope seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation which is 264 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending to a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
(7)
Horizontal zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport elevation or at a height of 414 feet above mean sea level.
(8)
Conical zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation or at a height of 614 feet above mean sea level.
(9)
Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
(Ord. of 11-13-84(2), § III)
Sec. 14-30. - Use restriction.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, no use may be made of land or water within any zone established by this article in such a manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Ord. of 11-13-84(2), § IV)
Sec. 14-31. - Nonconforming uses.
(a)
Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed in this article shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing contained in this article shall require any change in the construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which has begun prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives, and is diligently prosecuted.
(b)
Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the city manager, City of Thomasville, Georgia, to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the City of Thomasville, Georgia.
(Ord. of 11-13-84(2), § V)
Sec. 14-32. - Variances.
(a)
Application. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, permit the growth of any tree or use property not in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this article may apply to the board of commissioners for a variance from such regulations. The application for variance shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this article. Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of this article may be considered by the board of commissioners unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the county manager for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the county manager does not respond to the application within 15 days after receipt, the board of commissioners may act on its own to grant or deny the application.
(b)
Obstruction marking and lighting. Any variance granted may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this article and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate and maintain, at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed proper by the board of adjustment, this condition may be modified to require the owner to permit the City of Thomasville, Georgia, at its own expense, to install, operate and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
(Ord. of 11-13-84(2), § VI)
Sec. 14-33. - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the county manager to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed in this article. Applications for variances shall be made to the county manager upon a form published for that purpose. Applications required by this article to be submitted to the county manager shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. Application for action by the board of commissioners shall be forthwith transmitted by the county manager. Whenever it appears to the county manager that a violation of this article exists or is about to exist, the county manager is authorized, with the approval of the board of commissioners, to direct the county attorney to seek appropriate relief in any court having jurisdiction to abate the violation.
(Ord. of 11-13-84(2), § VII)
