PART I - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THOMAS COUNTY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the 1898 act of the general assembly, as amended, which created the board of commissioners of the county. It may be cited as 1898 Ga. Laws, page 378. Amendments to the original act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference— Board of commissioners, § 2-26 et seq.
State Law reference— Counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 1, par. 1; county officers, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 1, par. 3; home rule for counties, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 1; supplementary powers, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which county commission has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; grants of state funds to counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-1.

Sec. 1. - [Members; commissioner districts.]
modified
(a)
There shall be a board of commissioners of Thomas County which shall consist of eight members.
(b)
Each member of the board shall be a resident of the commissioner district he or she represents. In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member of the board when more than six months remain before the expiration of the term of office, it shall be the duty of the superintendent of elections to issue a call for a special election for the purpose of filling such vacancy for the unexpired term. Any such special election shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code.' In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member of the board when six months or less remain before the expiration of the term of office, such vacancy shall be filled by appointment of the remaining members of the board.
(c)
The terms of the commissioners in office on the effective date of this section shall expire as provided in this subsection. The terms of the commissioners representing Commissioner Districts No. 1, 3, 5, and 7 shall expire on December 31, 1986; and the terms of the commissioners representing Commissioner Districts No. 2, 4, 6, and 8 shall expire December 31, 1984. A successor to each such member and future successors shall be elected at the general election next preceding the expiration of a term of office. The terms of all members shall be for four years beginning on the first day of January next following their election.
(d)
For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, Thomas County is divided into eight commissioner districts. [2]
(e)
For purposes of this section:
(1)
The terms "Tract," "Block," and "VTD" shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 1990 for the State of Georgia;
(2)
The term "Precinct" is synonymous with the term "voting precinct" and means a geographical area designated by Article 7 of Chapter 2 or 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., within which all electors vote at one polling place;
(3)
Precinct names and designations following VTD designations are included for convenience only; and in the event the description of any commissioner district contains a conflict between the geographical boundaries of any VTD and the boundaries of the following named precinct, the geographical boundary of the VTD as shown on the census maps for the United States decennial census of 1990 for the State of Georgia shall control;
(4)
Any part of this section which is not included in any commissioner district described in this section shall be included within that commissioner district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 1990 for the State of Georgia; and
(5)
Any part of this section which is described in this section as being included in a particular commissioner district shall nevertheless not be included within such commissioner district if such part is not contiguous to such commissioner district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that commissioner district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 1990 for the State of Georgia.
(1911 Ga. Laws, page 501; 1917 Ga. Laws, page 394; 1983 Ga. Laws, page 3605; 1992 Ga. Laws, page 5814; 1993 Ga. Laws, page 4698; 1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 529), p. 3523)
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— A description of the eight commissioner districts, further identified as "Operator: local Client: Thomas Plan: THOMASCC96", is attached to H.B. 1775, Act No. 529 and is hereby adopted by reference. A copy of the Act is on file and availible for inspection in the offices of the county.

[Sec. 2.] - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2 was repealed pursuant to 1967 Ga. Laws, page 2913.
Sec. 2A. - [Office of county manager.]
(a)
County manager.
(1)
There is hereby created the office of county manager of Thomas County. The county manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners of Thomas County to serve at the pleasure of said board for an indefinite term. No member of the board shall be appointed county manager during the term of office for which he is elected or for a period of one year thereafter.
(2)
Not later than 90 days following the effective date of this section, the county manager shall be appointed as provided in this section.
(b)
Qualifications. The county manager shall be chosen by the board solely upon the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with specific reference to his actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practices in respect to the duties of his office as set forth in this section.
(c)
Duties. The county manager shall be the chief executive officer of Thomas County and the administrative head of the county government. He shall be responsible to the board for the proper and efficient administration of all affairs of the county except as otherwise provided by law. It shall be his duty:
(1)
Except as otherwise provided by law, to appoint and remove all subordinate officers and employees of all departments of the county which the commissioners have heretofore been empowered to appoint and discharge, with the exception of the county attorney, the county auditor, and the county physician;
(2)
To see that all laws and ordinances of the county are enforced;
(3)
To exercise control over all departments or divisions of the county which the board has heretofore exercised or that may hereafter be created;
(4)
To prepare and submit to the board of commissioners an annual budget;
(5)
To keep the board of commissioners fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of said county;
(6)
To supervise and direct the official conduct of all appointive county officers and department heads except as may be herein otherwise provided;
(7)
To attend all meetings of the board with the right to take part in the discussion, provided he shall have no vote before the board;
(8)
To supervise the performance of all contracts made by any person for work done for Thomas County and to supervise and regulate all purchases of materials and supplies for Thomas County within such limitations and under such rules and regulations as may be imposed by the board of commissioners; and
(9)
To countersign with the chairman, or in his absence from the county the vice chairman, all payroll checks for employees of Thomas County.
(d)
Reports. The board of commissioners shall have the right to require the county manager to appear before them at any time and make such reports, oral or written, as they deem necessary.
(e)
Bond. The county manager shall be required to execute and deliver a good and sufficient bond payable to Thomas County to be approved by the board of commissioners and conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties. The amount of said bond shall be determined by the board of commissioners. Said bond shall be delivered to the board within five days of the county manager assuming his duties and, upon receipt, shall be filed by the chairman of the board in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of Thomas County.
(f)
Oath. Before entering upon his duties, the county manager shall take and subscribe an oath for the faithful performance of his duties under this Act, which oath shall be duly entered upon the minutes of the board of commissioners.
(g)
Removal. The county manager may be suspended or removed at the pleasure of the board of commissioners by a majority vote of the board of commissioners.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3751)
Sec. 3. - [Employment of convicts.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the board of commissioners shall have exclusive authority to lease or hire out to such persons and on such terms as they may deem proper, all persons convicted of misdemeanor in the superior or county courts of the county and sentenced to labor on the chain gang or on the public works, taking from such lessees such bond and security for the safe keeping and comfort of the convicts, so leased or hired, as they may deem sufficient, or they may, in their discretion, employ such convicts on the public roads of the county, and shall have authority to make suitable provision for guarding and feeding them while so employed.
Sec. 4. - [Bonds of county officers.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the board herein provided for shall have exclusive authority to take and approve the official bonds of all county officers; and to provide, either by appointment or by ordering elections, as the ordinary was heretofore authorized to do, for filling all vacancies in the offices of the county.
Sec. 5. - [Meetings; organization.]
modified
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the board of commissioners shall meet at the county site for the transaction of county business at least once in each month, but may meet in extraordinary session as often as the affairs of the county may require, and at all such meetings, five members shall constitute a quorum. The members of the board shall, at the first regular meeting each year, select one of their number to act as chairperson, who shall preside at all meetings of the board. The chairperson shall have authority to summon witnesses and compel their attendance and to administer oaths and take testimony in all matters relating to the business of the county. At the same meeting, there shall who shall preside over meetings in the absence of the chairperson and have the chairperson's powers when acting as chairperson. At the same meeting, there shall also be chosen a suitable person to serve as clerk, whose duty it shall be to attend all meetings of the board and to keep a full record of its proceedings and who shall serve at the pleasure of the board. It shall be the duty of the sheriff of the county, when required by the chairperson, to attend all meetings of the board, to preserve order, and to carry out the instructions of the board.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3264; 1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 67), p. 3786)
Sec. 6. - [Treasurer's reports, accounts; disbursements.]
Be it further enacted by authority aforesaid, that the treasurer of the county shall make such reports, and submit his books and accounts to such inspection as the board may require, nor shall that officer disburse any funds of the county except upon orders signed by the chairman of the board or the judge of the superior court, but the concurrence of a majority of the members of the board shall be necessary to authorize the making of such orders by the chairman.
Sec. 7. - [Compensation of members; annual financial statement; open records.]
modified
The member of the board of commissioners of Thomas County, who is the chairperson thereof, shall be compensated in the amount of $400.00 per month, and the remaining members of the board shall be compensated in the amount of $300.00 per month, payable monthly. All of such compensation and expenses shall be payable from the funds of Thomas County. The board of commissioners shall submit through its chairperson to the grand jury of the county at the spring term of the superior court in each year a written statement of all matters relating to the financial condition of the county, its roads, bridges, public buildings, and paupers, with suggestions in regard to county affairs as it deems proper to make. The records of the proceedings of the board shall be open at all times to inspection by any citizen of the county. Each outgoing board member shall turn over at the expiration of his or her term of office all records, books, papers, and other property of the county to his or her successor in office.
(1967 Ga. Laws, page 2913; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 2705; 1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 67), p. 3786)
Sec. 7A. - [Attendance at special meetings; compensation.]
(a)
As used in this section, the term "meeting" means a meeting which is noticed or which commissioners are required to attend because of their position and at which minutes are kept. Such term shall not include regularly scheduled meetings of the board of commissioners held on the second Tuesday of each month.
(b)
In addition to the compensation provided in Section 7 of this Act, each member of the board of commissioners shall receive an amount for each day during which he or she attends a meeting equal to the daily expense allowance to which members of the General Assembly are authorized pursuant to general law; provided, however, that each member shall be entitled to receive such amount for no more than five meetings per month, and the chairperson shall be allowed to receive such amount for no more than ten meetings per month. The chairperson and members of the board of commissioners shall be entitled to receive the per mile allowance authorized for state employees by general law for attending such meetings.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, if any commissioner incurs actual expenses in excess of the amounts allowed pursuant to such subsection in attending a meeting, such commissioner shall be entitled to receive his or her actual expenses in lieu of the amount allowed under such subsection.
(1993 Ga. Laws, page 4698)
Sec. 8. - [Oath.]
Be it further enacted by authority aforesaid, that said commissioners shall each subscribe an oath to faithfully discharge the duties imposed by the provisions of this Act. Said oath shall be taken and subscribed before the ordinary of the county before entering upon their duties.
Sec. 9. - [No jurisdiction over board of education, school commissioner.]
Be it further enacted by authority aforesaid, that nothing contained in the foregoing sections shall be construed as giving to the board herein provided for any jurisdiction or control over the county board of education or the county school commissioner.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY[3]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is a 1965 Ga. Law, relating to the establishment of fire districts in the county. A referendum regarding fire protection and the levying of a tax therefor was approved in the election of November, 1965.
Code reference— Fire district no. 3 created, § 46-26.

Sec. 1. - [Power to establish fire districts.]
For the purpose of providing fire protection in Thomas County, Georgia outside the corporate limits of any municipality therein, the Commissioners of Thomas County, Georgia shall have the right and power to establish fire districts and fix boundaries therefor.
Sec. 2. - [Referendum to establish fire protection, levy tax.]
The Commissioners of Thomas County, Georgia shall have the right and power to furnish fire protection in such fire districts as shall be laid out by the Commissioners of Thomas County, Georgia after they have called a referendum election in each of said districts that shall be affected, and submit the question to the registered voters of said districts as to whether they desire fire protection, and to have a tax levied therefor. If the majority of the registered voters of the district affected voting in said election should be in favor of the furnishing of fire protection and the levying of a tax for said purpose, then the Commissioners of Thomas County, Georgia may furnish said protection and levy said tax therefor.
Sec. 3. - [Authority to furnish fire protection after voting.]
The Commissioners of Thomas County, Georgia, are hereby authorized to furnish fire protection to the fire protection districts in which the voters have voted for the establishment of said fire districts, and a tax therefor, by contract with the City of Thomasville or any other municipality in Thomas County, Georgia.
Sec. 4. - [Adoption, enforcement of fire safety regulations.]
The Commissioners of Thomas County, Georgia are hereby authorized to adopt and enforce fire safety regulations for Thomas County outside any municipality therein.
Sec. 5. - [Tax levy to defray costs.]
The Commissioners of Thomas County, Georgia, are hereby authorized to levy a tax not to exceed 12 mills upon the taxable value of all property located within such fire districts to defray the cost of providing fire protection services within such districts only after an election in said districts affected in which the majority of the registered voters voting in said election have voted therefor.
Sec. 6. - [Uniformity of taxes, services not required for districts.]
The Commissioners of Thomas County, Georgia shall expend said taxes collected in each fire district established only in connection with the expense of maintaining fire protection in the district from which said tax is collected. Uniformity of service or taxes among different districts shall not be required.
DIVISION 2. - FIRE DISTRICT NOS. 1 AND 2[4]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein are the boundary descriptions for fire districts 1 and 2 as set forth in 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2680 and 1966 Ga. Laws, page 2853, and formerly included in the 1977 Code as § 5-101.

Sec. 1. - Created.
For the purpose of this act, there are hereby created the following fire protection districts in Thomas County, Georgia, as provided for in Article VII, Section IV, Paragraph II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia:
(1)
Fire District No. 1: All those tracts, parcels or portions of land lying outside of the present city limits of the City of Thomasville, Thomas County, Georgia, being in the 13th and 18th land districts of said county and embraced within the following described boundaries, to wit:
Beginning at the northeast corner of original land lot no. 102 in the 13th land district of Thomas County, Georgia, and run thence south along the original east lines of land lots nos. 102, 101, and 100 to the southeast corner of said land lot no. 100; thence east along the original south line of land lot no. 131 to the southeast corner of said land lot; thence south along the original east line of land lot no. 132 to the south margin of U.S. 84; thence north 82 degrees 32 minutes west along the south margin of U.S. 84 to the northeast corner of the property of William C. and Lucille Tucker; thence south 19 degrees 15 minutes west along the land of William C. and Lucille Tucker and the lands of Carl J. and Cynthia G. Bozeman a distance of 2,268 feet to the original south line of said land lot no. 132; thence west along the original south lines of land lots nos. 132 and 99 to the eastern margin of relocated U.S. 19; thence southerly along the east margin of relocated U.S. 19 to the original south line of land lot no. 98; thence west along the original south line of said land lot no. 98 to the southwest corner of said land lot; thence south along the original east line of land lot no. 88 to the southeast corner of said land lot; thence west along the original south lines of land lots nos. 88, 51, 42 and 5 to the northeast margin of State Route No. 122; thence northwesterly along the northeastern margin of State Route No. 122 to the original north line of land lot no. 5; thence west along the original north line of land lot no. 5 to the original east line of land lot no. 200 in the 18th land district of Thomas County, Georgia; thence south along the original east line of said land lot no. 200 to the southeast corner of said land lot; thence west along the original south line of said land lot no. 200 to the southwest corner of said land lot; thence north along the original west lines of land lots nos. 200, 161 and 160 to the northwest corner of said land lot no. 160; thence west along the original south line of landlot no. 122 to the southwest corner of said land lot; thence north along the original west lines of land lots nos. 122, 119, 82, 79 and 42 to the Old Cassidy Road; thence in a general easterly direction along the Old Cassidy Road to the eastern margin of the right-of-way of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company in land lot no. 36 of the 13th land district of Thomas County, Georgia; thence southerly along the eastern margin of said railroad right-of-way to the original south line of said land lot no. 36; thence easterly along the original south lines of land lots nos. 36, 57, 82 and 103 to the point of beginning.
(2)
Fire District No. 2: All those tracts, parcels or portions of land situated, lying and being in the 13th, 17th and 18th land districts of Thomas County, Georgia, lying outside the boundaries of Fire District No. 1 as hereinabove described and embraced within the following boundaries, to wit:
a.
Beginning at the northeast corner of land lot no. 80 in the 13th land district of Thomas County, Georgia, and run thence south along the original east line of said land lot to the southeast corner of said land lot no. 80; thence east along the original north line of land lot no. 104 to the northeast corner of said land lot; thence south along the original east line of said land lot no. 104 to the southeast corner of said land lot; thence east along the original north line of land lot no. 128 to the northeast corner of said land lot; thence south along the original east lines of land lots nos. 128 and 129 to the southeast corner of said land lot [no.] 129; thence east along the original north line of land lot no. 147 to the northeast corner of said land lot; thence south along the original east lines of land lots nos. 147, 146, 145, 144 and 143 to the southeast corner of said land lot no. 143; thence west along the original south line of land lot no. 143 to the southwest corner of said land lot; thence east along the original east line of land lot no. 135 to the southeast corner of said land lot; thence west along the original south line of land lot no. 135 to the westerly margin of U.S. 19; thence southerly along the western margin of U.S. 19, 24.38 chains to the land now owned by L.B. Harvard; thence westerly along the land of L.B. Harvard to the original east line of land lot no. 95; thence south along the original east line of land lot no. 95 to the southeast corner of said land lot; thence west along the original south line of land lot no. 95 to the northeast corner of land lot no. 91; thence south along the original line of land lot no. 91, 35 chains to the center of said land lot; thence west along the center of said land lot no. 91 to the westerly margin of Mill Pond Road; thence southerly along the western margin of Mill Pond Road to the original south line of land lot no. 48; thence west along the south lines of land lots nos. 48, 45 and 2 to the southwest corner of said land lot no. 2; thence north along the original west line of land lot no. 2 to the original south line of land lot no. 280 in the 18th land district of Thomas County, Georgia; thence west along the original south lines of said land lot no. 280 and land lot no. 279 to the northwest margin of the Spring Hill Road; thence southwesterly along the northwest margin of the Spring Hill Road to the original south line of land [lot] no. 282; thence westerly along the original south line of land lot no. 282 to the southwest corner of said land lot; thence north along the original west lines of land lots nos. 282 and 279 to the northwest corner of said land lot no. 279; thence west along the original south line of land lot no. 243 to the southwest corner of said land lot; thence north along the original west lines of land lots nos. 243 and 238 to the northwest corner of said land lot no. 238; thence west along the original south line of land lot no. 204 to the southwest corner of said land lot; thence north along the original west line of land lot no. 204 to the northwest corner of said land lot; thence west along the original south line of land lot no. 196 to the southwest corner of said land lot; thence north along the original west lines of land lots nos. 196, 165, 156, 125 and 116 to the Ochlochnee River; thence following the meanderings of the Ochlochnee River in a general northeasterly direction to the original north line of land lot no. 13 in the 13th land district of Thomas County, Georgia; thence east along the original north lines of land lot[s] nos. 13, 34, 59 and 80 to the point of beginning.
b.
Fire district no. 2 shall also include land lots nos. 236 and 237 in the 18th land district of Thomas County, Georgia.
