ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Sale of property for past due ad valorem taxes.
(a)
The city clerk is hereby designated as the authorized officer of the municipality to conduct sales of real and personal property for taxes due to the city. Said sales may be conducted in the council chambers at Duluth City Hall and/or may be held in conjunction with tax sales held at the Gwinnett County Justice and Administration Building and shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359 and all other relevant local and state laws.
(b)
The city clerk of the city is hereby authorized and directed to establish such administrative procedures or bylaws as the clerk may deem necessary to carry out such tax sales in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359 and all other relevant state and local laws.
(Ord. of 8-22-94; Ord. of 1-12-15 )
Sec. 2-2. - Refunds of taxes and license fees.
(a)
Refunds allowed. In any case in which it is determined that an erroneous or illegal collection of any tax or license fee has been made by the city or that a taxpayer has voluntarily or involuntarily overpaid a tax or license fee, the taxpayer from whom the tax or license fee was collected may file a claim for a refund of the tax or license fee. In addition, should the city discover that taxes or license fees have been erroneously or illegally collected, the city may initiate the refund procedure. In addition, if it is determined that the tax or license fee has been erroneously or illegally collected, any penalties associated with that tax may be waived or refunded.
(b)
Time for filing for refunds. All claims for refunds of license fees made by a taxpayer shall be made within one (1) year of the date the license fee was paid. All claims for refunds of taxes must be filed within three (3) years of the date the tax was paid.
(c)
Procedure for filing for refunds. All claims for refunds of taxes or license fees must be made in the following manner.
(1)
All claims for refunds must be in writing and in the form and containing the information required by the city.
(2)
The claim must provide a summary statement of the grounds upon which the taxpayer relies for the refund.
(3)
If the taxpayer desire a hearing or conference with the city or its officials, the taxpayer must specify the request in writing. If the claim for a refund conforms to the requirements of this section, the city council or its designee will then set a time for the hearing or conference.
(d)
Decision regarding refund. At the conference or hearing, if requested, the city council or its designee will consider the information presented by the taxpayer and any other information relevant to the refund claim. At the conclusion of the conference or hearing or within thirty (30) days thereafter, the city council or its designee will decide whether or not to grant all or a portion of the taxpayer's claim for a refund. The city council or its designee must then inform the taxpayer of the city's decision within ten (10) days of rendering the decision.
(e)
Payment of refund. If the refund is allowed, the city will remit the refund to the taxpayer within sixty (60) days of the approval of the refund claim or within sixty (60) days of the entry of a final decision in any action for a refund. Refunds are not assignable. Refunds allowed under this section must be paid from the city's funds to which the taxes or license fees were originally paid.
(f)
Appeals. Taxpayers may file appeals in the Superior Court of Gwinnett County in the following cases:
(1)
If all or a portion of a refund claim is denied by the city.
(2)
If the refund claim is not decided by the city within one (1) year of the filing of the refund claim.
Appeals to the Superior Court must be filed within one (1) year of the date on which the appeal was denied. This one-year period may be extended for such time as is agreed upon by the taxpayer and the city, but such agreement must be in writing and must be made within the one-year period allowed for the appeal or any extension thereof. No appeal may be filed in the Superior Court within one (1) year of the filing of the claim unless the taxpayer's claim has been denied by the city.
(g)
Authority of city clerk. The city council hereby delegates to the city clerk the authority to process all claims for tax refunds. In addition, the city clerk may approve or disapprove refund claims where the basis for the refund claim is an obvious clerical error. All other cases in which there is no obvious clerical error must be decided by the city council.
(Ord. of 4-13-98)
Sec. 2-3. - Sale of parcels of property too small to be used independently.
The city council is hereby authorized to sell and convey parcels of property owned by the city which are narrow strips of land, so shaped or so small as to be incapable of being used independently as zoned or under applicable subdivision or other development ordinances or as streets whether this property is owned in fee by the city or has been obtained by grant of easement. The property may be sold to abutting property owners where such sales and conveyances facility the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property. Such sales shall not require the use of the process of an auction or solicitation of sealed bids, however, for any such sale each abutting property owner shall be notified of the availability of the property and shall have an opportunity to present a proposal of purchase for said property to the city.
Upon receipt of any such proposals from any abutting property owners, the city shall be authorized to negotiate with such property owners, and the city council shall by motion authorize the sale of any such property and establish the terms of such sale.
(Ord. of 9-14-98)
Sec. 2-4. - Insolvent list.
The city clerk is hereby authorized to submit to the city council an insolvent list which shall contain a list of all property taxes determined to be uncollectible. Property taxes shall be considered uncollectible only after the city clerk has made every effort to collect such taxes. Property taxes may be deemed uncollectible for any valid reason including but not limited to the fact that the business or entity owing the taxes is out of business and maintains no property on which to levy, that the taxpayer has moved out of state, has no property on which to levy, and the city clerk is unable to locate the taxpayer, due to a legal decision that the taxes are not owed or that the property that was subject to taxation has been seized lawfully by another entity having priority over the city taxes, that more than seven (7) years has passed since the entry of a tax execution, or that the taxpayer has been adjudged bankrupt and the city clerk was unable to collect the taxes through the bankruptcy proceeding.
From time to time, but not more frequently than once per year, the city clerk shall establish an insolvent list which shall contain property taxes determined to be uncollectible. Said insolvent list shall be presented to the mayor and council. Said list shall contain the taxpayer's name, the year that the taxes were due, the bill number, the amount of taxes owed, and the reason that the city clerk has determined that said taxes are uncollectible. If the city council for any reason believes that any taxes listed on the insolvent list are capable of further collection attempts, the city council shall direct the clerk to remove those taxes from the insolvent list. Once appropriate revisions have been made, the city council shall approve the insolvent list, and the city clerk shall have no further obligation to attempt to collect the taxes shown on the insolvent list. The fact that property taxes have been determined to be uncollectible and placed on the insolvent list shall in no way relieve the taxpayer of the obligations to pay said taxes provided that said taxes are otherwise lawfully collectible under state law.
(Ord. of 4-12-10)
Sec. 2-5. - Signatures.
Any directing of distributions, authorizations of payments, or authorization of investments of capital reserve funds shall require the signatures of the mayor or mayor pro tem, and either the city clerk or city manager to be official.
(Ord. No. O-2021-18 , § III, 3-8-21)
Secs. 2-6—2-25. - Reserved.
