Chapter 16 - OFFENSES[1]

Sec. 16-1. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons in the city to act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby:
(1)
Any person is placed in fear of the safety of his life, limb or health;
(2)
The property of any person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(3)
To cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
(4)
To assemble or congregate with others for the purpose of, or with the intent to engage in, gaming;
(5)
To be in or about any place where gaming or the use of illegal drugs is practiced, allowed or tolerated, for the purpose of consumption of said illegal drugs, narcotics or alcoholic beverages;
(6)
To direct fighting words toward another, that is, words which by their very nature tend to incite a breach of the peace;
(7)
To interfere, by acts of physical obstruction, with another's pursuit of lawful occupation;
(8)
To congregate with others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and to fail to clear that public way after being ordered to do so by an officer of the city or other lawful authority;
(9)
To intend to disrupt by actions which substantially impair the ordinary conduct of activities or a meeting occurring at any house of worship, home for the elderly or property which is federally funded, state subsidized or owned by private nonprofit or private citizen, or any lawful meeting, gathering, or procession of others both inside/outside and/or surrounding properties around those previously described; or
(10)
To throw bottles, paper, cans, glass, sticks, stones, or any other debris on any public property.
(Prior Code, § 31-108)
State Law reference— Fighting in a public place, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-32; use of "fighting words," obscene and vulgar or profane language, etc., O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 16-2. - Discharging firearms, air guns, etc.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to discharge any gun, pistol, or other firearm within 350 yards of any street, alley, or building, or at any point upon the land of another person without the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
(b)
This section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty, nor to prohibit any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending person or property.
(Prior Code, § 31-109)
Sec. 16-3. - Injuring public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure or deface in any manner whatsoever any public building or property of the city. Any violation of this section shall be punished as prescribed in section 1-9.
(Prior Code, § 31-111)
State Law reference— Unlawful to intentionally injure or destroy equipment or other apparatus of city used for public services, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 16-4. - Disturbing public worship.
If any person whosoever shall disturb any congregation who are assembled together at any church or public place of worship to perform divine service, or shall cause any disturbance thereabout or therein, he, shall, for such offense, be subject to punishment as prescribed in section 1-9.
(Prior Code, § 31-112)
Sec. 16-5. - Power of mayor to close public resort.
The mayor shall have power to shut up any place of public resort when the maintenance of order and public safety or tranquility, or public decency may, in his judgment, require it.
(Prior Code, § 31-113)
