Chapter 12 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Sec. 12-1. - Scope of jurisdiction.
The municipal court of the city shall try violations of municipal ordinances and shall have the power and authority to impose fines upon persons convicted of said offenses, with the alternative of other punishment allowed by law if such fines are not paid.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)
Sec. 12-2. - Appointment and qualifications of judge.
The judge of the municipal court shall be appointed by and shall serve at the pleasure of the city council. No person shall be so appointed unless he is a resident of the judicial circuit in which the court is located.
(Prior Code, § 5-102)
State Law reference— Qualifications for municipal court judges, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1.1.
Sec. 12-3. - Bailiff.
(a)
The bailiff of the municipal court shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of city council.
(b)
The duties of the bailiff shall consist generally of seeing that the courtroom is in proper condition for sessions of court, assisting in keeping order while court is in session, and doing such other acts of assistance as may be required of him by the judge of the court and the city clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
Sec. 12-4. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violations of this Code or other municipal ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the city clerk. Such record shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case, and the date of final disposition.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
Sec. 12-5. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any city ordinance shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. Such summons may be issued by the city clerk, the building inspector, or any police officer of the city. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the offense charged, and the day, hour and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer the accusation made. Service of the summons shall be made by a police officer of the city by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his most notorious place of abode, except that in the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person as owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
(Prior Code, § 5-105)
Sec. 12-6. - Subpoenas.
The city clerk shall issue subpoenas for the appearance of all witnesses necessary for the prosecution or for the defense in any case pending before the municipal court. All subpoenas shall be served in the same manner as a summons.
(Prior Code, § 5-106)
Sec. 12-7. - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon him shall be guilty of contempt of court and upon conviction thereof shall be punished for same.
(Prior Code, § 5-107)
Sec. 12-8. - Arrest and bond.
When a police officer has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this Code or any municipal ordinance and a trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take a cash bond not exceeding the maximum fine for the offense or a bond with a good security for the appearance of such person before the judge of the municipal court. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond, the officer may confine him or her in the city jail until a trial can be held, provided that the mayor, in his discretion, may release such person on his own recognizance without security.
(Prior Code, § 5-108)
Sec. 12-9. - Forfeiture of bond.
Upon the failure of a person to appear in the municipal court at the time and place fixed by the summons, the judge of said court shall enter a judgment of forfeiture on any cash bond, or, in the case of a security bond, shall pass a rule requiring the principal and surety on such bond to show cause on the date named therein, which date shall not be less than ten days from the passage of such ruling, why they should not be required to pay the amount of said bond. If no sufficient cause is shown, the judge shall enter judgment against the principal and surety for the amount of the forfeited bond and shall direct the city clerk to issue execution thereon.
(Prior Code, § 5-109)
Sec. 12-10. - Court costs.
The costs which shall be charged against a defendant in the municipal court in the event of his conviction shall not exceed $100.00, which sum shall be paid into the city treasury.
(Prior Code, § 5-110)
Sec. 12-11. - Malicious prosecution.
Whenever the judge of the municipal court, after a fair and full trial, is satisfied that any case was frivolously or maliciously prosecuted, he shall assess the prosecution with the court costs and such punitive damages as he deems appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 5-111)
Sec. 12-12. - Collection of fines.
When directed by the judge of the municipal court, the city clerk shall issue executions for fines imposed by said court, including the costs, which executions may be levied upon any goods or chattels, lands or tenements of the person so fined.
(Prior Code, § 5-112)
Sec. 12-13. - Appeal.
Appeals from decisions of the municipal court shall be taken to the superior court in the manner provided for appeals from the court of probate.
(Prior Code, § 5-113)
