Chapter 11 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority, § 1-102(22), (26).
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 11-1. - Spitting on sidewalks, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate upon the sidewalk, or upon the floor of any theater, courthouse, church, or other public building, store or office, or of any vehicle, conveyance or car.
(Code 1973, § 2-801(21))
State Law reference— Spitting, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-120.
Secs. 11-2—11-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTER[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Waste management, § 13-20 et seq.
State Law reference— Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; littering, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-40 et seq., 40-6-249.

Sec. 11-20. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Aircraft means any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed for navigation or for flight in the air. The word "aircraft" shall include helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
Authorized receptacle means a litter storage and collection container constructed so to reasonably confine and retain litter and trash.
Commercial handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original copies of any matter of literature:
(1)
Which advertises for sale any merchandise, commodity or thing;
(2)
Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
(3)
Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is charged for the purpose of private gain or profit, but the terms of this clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incidental to such meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, when either of the same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided nothing contained in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place at any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state, or under any ordinance of this city; or
(4)
Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or circulated for advertising purpose, or for the private benefit and gain of any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
Garbage means food waste, including waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter used for or intended for use as food, or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit, or vegetables.
Litter means garbage, refuse, trash and rubbish, as defined herein, and all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
Newspaper means any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any newspaper duly entered with the United States postal service, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and, in addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per year and sold to the public.
Noncommercial handbill means any printed or written matter, or sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced or original or copies of any matter of literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of commercial handbill or newspaper.
Park means a park, reservation, playground, recreation center, or any other public area in the city, owned or used by the city and its inhabitants and devoted to active or passive recreation.
Private premises means any dwelling, house, building or other structure designated or used wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
Public place means any street, sidewalk, boulevard, alley or other public way and any public park, square, space, grounds or building.
Refuse means all solid waste (except body waste) including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned motor vehicles and solid market industrial wastes.
Rubbish means nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, plastic and similar materials.
Vehicle means any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 11-21. - Owner to maintain premises free of litter.
The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times maintain the premises free of litter. However, this section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized receptacles for collection.
(Code 1973, § 2-7243)
Sec. 11-22. - Littering public place; placing in receptacles.
(a)
No person shall throw, dump, deposit, or leave litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the city except in public receptacles or in authorized receptacles for collection.
(b)
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place, or upon private property.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-7100, 2-7169)
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, ch. 17.
Sec. 11-23. - Littering occupied private property.
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied or unoccupied private property within the city whether or not owned by such person, except that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place, or upon any private property.
Sec. 11-24. - Littering private vacant lots.
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private property within the city, whether or not owned by such person.
Sec. 11-25. - Sweeping litter into gutters; cleanliness of sidewalk.
No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city any litter from any building or lot or from any private or public sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Code 1973, § 2-7193)
Sec. 11-26. - Merchants' duty to keep sidewalks free of litter.
No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city any litter from any building or lot or from any public place or private or public sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city shall keep all premises, including sidewalks, service alleys, and parking areas of their businesses free of litter.
(Code 1973, § 2-779)
Sec. 11-27. - Littering parks.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided herein.
Sec. 11-28. - Littering bodies of water.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, stream, ditch, canal or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere within the city.
Sec. 11-29. - Litter from vehicles—Throwing.
No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon private property.
Sec. 11-30. - Same—Loads causing litter; tracking mud.
(a)
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public place.
(b)
No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Code 1973, § 2-7164)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 18.
Sec. 11-31. - Littering from aircraft.
No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the city any litter, handbill or any other object without obtaining a permit from the city.
Sec. 11-32. - Handbills—Throwing or distributing in public places.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city; nor shall any person hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-703, 2-7174)
Cross reference— Posting handbills on public property, §§ 12-23, 12-24.
Sec. 11-33. - Same—Throwing on vacant private premises.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
Sec. 11-34. - Same—Distributing at inhabited private premises.
No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or upon such private premises; provided, however, unless requested by anyone upon such inhabited private premises not to do so, such person may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place, or upon private property.
Sec. 11-35. - Same—Political; handing handbills to drivers.
The provisions of this article notwithstanding, political handbills or printed matter may be handed out or distributed in public places to individuals who are willing to accept same; provided, however, no handbills of a commercial, political or noncommercial nature may be handed out or distributed to any occupant of a vehicle upon the public streets, whether such vehicle is moving or stopped. Nothing herein contained shall be construed in any way to deprive any bona fide organization or its members of enjoying and exercising any rights or privileges which they have or may hereafter have under the provisions of the laws of the state or the laws or constitution of the United States.
Sec. 11-36. - Penalties.
(a)
Violations of this article shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00).
(b)
In the sound discretion of the court in which conviction is obtained, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public street or highway or public right-of-way for a distance not to exceed one (1) mile any litter the person has deposited and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution of sentence.
(c)
In the sound discretion of the judge of the court in which conviction is obtained, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public park, private right-of-way, or, with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that the person has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence.
Secs. 11-37—11-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NUISANCES

Sec. 11-61. - Enumerated.
The following conditions are specifically declared to be nuisances:
(1)
Toilets, plumbing, sewers, septic tank systems, garbage containers or any other sanitary facilities in bad repair.
(2)
Conditions conducive to the breeding or attraction of rodents, flies, fleas, ticks, mosquitoes or any other disease-carrying insects.
(3)
Manmade or mechanically induced noxious air contaminants.
(4)
Trash, garbage, refuse or any foul, decaying or putrescent material kept, used, placed or disposed of in such a manner or place as to be or to become detrimental to human health or well-being.
(5)
Sewage, kitchen wastes, laundry wastes or any other wastes deposited upon or allowed to remain upon the ground surface or any other place so as to be or to become detrimental to human health or well-being.
(6)
The keeping of animals or fowl unless the housing, enclosures or other areas used by the animals or fowl are kept clean, well-drained and free from accumulation of excrement.
Sec. 11-62. - Prohibited.
No person shall create, maintain, support, aid or continue any condition declared to be a nuisance in this article.
