ARTICLE VI. - OFF-ROAD VEHICLES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Off-road vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-7-1 et seq.

Sec. 18-171. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Off-road vehicle means any motorized vehicle designed for or capable of cross-country travel on or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain and not intended for use predominantly on public roads. It includes, but is not limited to, four-wheel drive or low-pressure tire vehicles, two-wheel vehicles, amphibious machines, ground effect or air cushion vehicles, and any other means of transportation deriving power from any source other than muscle or wind, except that such term shall exclude any motorboat; any military, fire, or law enforcement vehicle; any vehicles used exclusively in airports; all farm machinery, farm tractors, and other self-propelled equipment for harvesting and transportation of forest products, for clearing land for planting, for utility services and maintenance, for earth moving, construction, or mining; and self-propelled lawnmowers, snowblowers, garden or lawn tractors, or golf carts, while such vehicles are being used exclusively for their designed purposes.
Operate means to ride in or on and control the operation of an off-road vehicle, whether in motion or at rest.
Operator means any person who operates or is in actual physical control of an off-road vehicle.
Ride means to ride in or on as a passenger but not control the operation of an off-road vehicle.
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-172. - Enforcement and penalties.
(a)
Any law enforcement officer whose duty it is to enforce the provisions of this article may stop and examine any off-road vehicle for the purpose of ascertaining whether it is being operated in compliance with this article and with O.C.G.A. tit. 40, ch. 7 (O.C.G.A. § 40-7-1 et seq.).
(b)
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed that amount prescribed by O.C.G.A. § 40-7-6.
Sec. 18-173. - Operation.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an off-road vehicle off the roadway or on the property of another under the following circumstances:
(1)
Without operative brakes, or without mufflers or other silencing equipment;
(2)
On the private property of another without first obtaining permission from the landowner, lessee or other person in control of the property; permission shall not be required where notice is conspicuously posted on the property declaring it open to off-road vehicles;
(3)
Within one thousand (1,000) feet of any residence, place of worship, business or public meeting place between 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. except where the off-road vehicle operator is the owner, lessee or invited guest of the owner or lessee of the residence, place of worship, business or public meeting place.
Secs. 18-174—18-180. - Reserved.
