ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Uniform Rules of the Road and definitions; adopted by reference, penalty for violation.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376, all provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 40, ch. 6 (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.), known as the Uniform Rules of the Road, and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the city with like effect as if recited in this chapter.
(b)
Any future amendments or repeal of a provision of the chapter of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated containing the Uniform Rules of the Road or the definitions referenced in this chapter shall so amend or repeal the pertinent provisions of this chapter without any action by the governing body of the city being required.
(c)
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Ord. No. 758, § 2, 10-28-74)
State Law reference— Adoption of rules of the road by reference, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372 et seq.
Sec. 18-2. - Chapter does not affect property rights.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the owner of real property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of the owner, and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use, or from requiring other or different or additional conditions than those specified herein, or otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such owner.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-8.
Sec. 18-3. - Applicability to public officers and employees.
The provisions of this chapter applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon the streets and highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United States, any state or any county, city, town, district, or any other political subdivision of the state, except as otherwise provided.
Sec. 18-4. - Owners or persons directing drivers of vehicles not to permit violation.
It is unlawful for the owner or any other person employing or otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly permit the operation of that vehicle upon a street or highway in any manner contrary to this chapter.
Sec. 18-5. - Use of vehicle without consent of the owner.
It shall be unlawful for any person to take, use, or operate any motor vehicle or motorcycle upon the public streets and highways of the city without the permission of the owner thereof.
Sec. 18-6. - Obstructions to right-of-way.
(a)
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the right-of-way of any public road, street, or other easement in the city by placing or maintaining thereon any obstruction, whether it is in the nature of shrubbery, signs, fences or whatever, which interferes with the clear view of motorists or the free passage of pedestrians thereon.
(b)
Notice to remove. Wherever any obstruction prohibited by subsection (a) of this section has been placed and is being maintained, the city manager or his designee shall notify in writing the owner of the obstruction and the owner of the land abutting the right-of-way where the obstruction is found and also the person in possession of the property. Such notice shall state the nature of the obstruction and the fact that the obstruction is an interference with the clear view of motorists or the free passage of pedestrians and that it shall be removed with ten (10) days from the date of the notice.
(c)
Issuance of summons upon failure to remove. Whenever the person so notified as provided by subsection (b) of this section fails or refuses to remove the obstruction within the time allowed in the written notice, the city manager or his designee shall issue a citation to this person to appear in municipal court on a day certain to stand trial for the violation.
(d)
Continued violations; issuance of summons without notice. If upon conviction for the first offense, the person continues to refuse to remove the obstruction, each day that it remains intact shall constitute a new violation of subsection (a) of this section for which the city manager or his designee shall issue a citation without the necessity of issuing additional written notice.
Sec. 18-7. - Abatement of unsafe vehicles as nuisances.
The use of any vehicle on the streets is a nuisance where by reason of a defect in such vehicle the driving thereof on the streets constitutes a menace or a hazard to the life, safety or property of others. The members of the police department are charged with the duty of enforcing this section. Where it is shown that any vehicle on the street is dangerous or likely to cause injury to person or damage to property, the police shall have authority to order the driver or owner thereof to immediately remove such vehicle from the streets or, if the vehicle can be made safe by repair, to repair it. Failure to remove the vehicle from the streets immediately, or to continue to drive the vehicle on the streets shall be an offense. If on the hearing of such failure to remove the vehicle from the streets as ordered by the police or to continue to drive such vehicle on the streets, the municipal judge sees from the evidence that such vehicle is a nuisance, within the meaning of this section, such judge shall enter an order so declaring and stating the terms of the abatement and the conditions under which such vehicle may be driven on the streets.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 2)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-7; nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.
Sec. 18-8. - Vehicle damaging streets.
No vehicle shall be operated on the streets with cleated wheels, or so constructed in other ways as to damage the street.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 3)
Cross reference— Placing sharp objects on street, § 17-24.
Sec. 18-9. - Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted.
(a)
No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinance of this city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for persons so skating or riding to gather in crowds, or to create noise or be guilty of any disorderly conduct, or to take hold of or hang on to any automobile or other vehicle, or in any way to interfere with the natural progress of vehicles along and in the streets of the city, or for two (2) or more persons to join hands while skating on the sidewalks. Any persons so skating or riding shall give right-of-way to, and in no way interfere with, persons walking on the sidewalks.
(c)
Any persons violating any provisions of this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 1-8; provided, however, that any such offender under the age of seventeen (17) years shall be dealt with as provided by the law creating juvenile courts. The parent of any child and the guardian of the person of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this section.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 5)
Sec. 18-10. - Unlawful riding.
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 8)
State Law reference— Obstructing driver's view, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-242.
Sec. 18-11. - Persons entering or leaving moving vehicle.
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 11)
Sec. 18-12. - Parades and marches.
(a)
Definition. The word "parade" or "march" means an assemblage of persons, groups of persons, vehicles, bands, floats, or devices gathered together in public with some circumstance of show. It shall not include a funeral procession or an assemblage of public officials gathered for any purpose in the public interest.
(b)
Prohibited without permit. It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to hold or participate in a parade in the city without first securing a parade permit from the city.
(c)
Application for permit. To obtain a parade permit, the person or group of persons desiring to hold a parade shall file an application with the city manager at least five (5) days before the date of the scheduled parade. The application shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name, address, and telephone number, both business and residential, of the applicant.
(2)
The date and hours when the parade is to be held.
(3)
The location and time of the point of assembly.
(4)
The parade route.
(5)
The anticipated number of marching persons.
(6)
The anticipated number and types of motorized and other vehicles and devices.
(7)
The number of bands and floats in the parade.
(8)
A statement by the applicant agreeing to assume all responsibility for the mechanical condition of each vehicle in the parade and all damages caused by mechanical failure of any vehicle, float, or other device in the parade.
(d)
Issuance of permit; conditions. The issuance of the permit by the city manager shall give full consideration to the condition and width of the streets or sidewalks along the proposed route; the nature of traffic conditions as related to the number of participants and the number and type of vehicles to participate in the parade or march as shown on the application for such permit; the number of police personnel available to direct traffic, properly manage such parade or march, and provide police protection to participants and the general public; and whether the city, county, state, or a public utility company has scheduled improvements along the parade route during the time of the parade which cannot be interrupted. The city manager may require the applicant for a parade permit to furnish to the city a bond in an amount not to exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) secured by a surety company licensed to do business in the state, payable to the city or to any person in the city who may suffer any injury or damage from any vehicle, float, device or person participating in the parade or march.
(e)
Police vehicle to precede parades and marches. All parades and marches through the streets of the city shall be preceded by a police vehicle and conducted in such manner as to impede and interfere with the flow of traffic to the least possible extent.
(f)
Hours restricted. No parade permit shall be issued for any parade to be held between 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
(g)
Appeals from denial of parade permit. An applicant who has been denied a parade permit by the city manager has the right to file an appeal to the governing body with the city clerk within five (5) days from the date the application is denied. The governing body shall hear the appeal at any regular or special meeting of the board to be held at any time not less than fifteen (15) nor more than sixty (60) days from the date the appeal is received by the city clerk.
(Code 1973, § 2-801(52), App. II, § 12)
Cross reference— Miscellaneous provisions and offenses, ch. 12.
State Law reference— Authority to regulate or prohibit parades, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a); operation of motor vehicles in parades, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-7.
Sec. 18-13. - Funeral processions.
(a)
Vehicles of a funeral procession shall have the right-of-way over all vehicles, except authorized emergency vehicles, provided each shall identify itself by burning regular headlights, shall keep in close formation, and shall display a device with the word "funeral," in such size and form as to identify the procession as a funeral.
(b)
Each driver in a funeral procession shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the street or roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
(c)
When the lead vehicle in a funeral procession has entered an intersection on a green light, all other cars in the procession may proceed through the intersection even though such signal may change to red.
(d)
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral procession while they are in motion and when these vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this section.
(Code 1973, App. II, § 36)
State Law reference— Authority to regulate processions on highways, § 40-6-371(a)(3).
Sec. 18-14. - Sanitation vehicles.
All employees and vehicles of the city when engaged or used in performance of collection of solid waste or recovered materials shall have the right-of-way in the use of the streets within the city and may stop or stand on the road, street, or highway for the sole purpose of collecting such waste or materials; provided, however, that such vehicle shall maintain flashing hazard lights at all times that it is engaged in stopping or standing for the purpose of waste or materials collection.
State Law reference— Special privileges of municipal solid waste or recovered materials vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-203.
Sec. 18-15. - Open alcohol container in motor vehicles prohibited.
(a)
As used in this Code section "open container" means any container which is immediately capable of being consumed from or which the seal has been broken.
(b)
No person shall possess an open container of any alcoholic beverage while operating a motor vehicle or while a passenger in a motor vehicle in operation within the city. For purposes of this code section, an open container shall be considered in the possession of the operator of the motor vehicle if the container is not in possession of a passenger, and is not located in a locked glove compartment, locked trunk, or other locked non-passenger area of the motor vehicle.
(c)
Any person who violates this Code section is subject to a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. No. 9908, § 1, 11-22-99)
Secs. 18-16—18-19. - Reserved.
