ARTICLE VI. - TELEPHONE COMPANY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Authority for Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company to use public streets of city for erecting, etc., lines, app. C, art. IV.

Sec. 14-166. - Definition of "recurring local service revenue."
"Recurring local service revenue" as described in this article shall mean:
(1)
Monthly charges for local exchange service, including:
a.
Charges for additional listings and joint users;
b.
The guarantee portion of the charge for semi-public pay station services;
c.
Charges for local message rate service, including mobile service local messages; and
d.
Subscriber station revenues from teletypewriter exchange services.
(2)
Charges for Morse transmission, signaling, data transmission, remote metering and supervisory control, where both terminal points are within the city limits.
(3)
All charges for local private line service (except audio and video program transmission services) where both terminals of the private line are within the city limits.
(Code 1973, § 2-617(b))
Sec. 14-167. - Levy of tax.
(a)
There is hereby assessed against telephone companies doing business in the city an annual occupation license tax of three (3) percent of recurring local service revenue received by such telephone companies from subscribers located within the city.
(b)
The license tax under this article shall be due on January 1 of each year, and may be paid on or after January 1 or by February 15 without interest or penalty.
(Code 1973, § 2-617(a), (f))
Sec. 14-168. - Computation of tax.
The annual amount due may be computed by annualizing the taxable revenues billed during the month of June preceding the date of payment.
(Code 1973, § 2-617(c))
Sec. 14-169. - Due compensation for telephone companies with end user retail customers within the city.
(a)
The city hereby requires due compensation of three (3) percent of actual recurring local service revenues, as defined in paragraphs (8) and (9) of subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1; provided, however, that any company which pays in excess of three (3) percent of actual recurring local service revenues pursuant to an existing franchise agreement shall continue to pay in accordance with the agreement until the expiration of the franchise agreement or December 31, 2012, whichever occurs first, and any company which pays in excess of three (3) percent of actual recurring local service revenues in accordance with an occupational license tax arrangement shall continue to pay in accordance with such payment schedule until December 31, 2012.
(b)
Regarding any telephone company that does not have retail, end user customers located within the city's municipal boundaries, the payment by such company to a municipal authority in accordance with the rates set by regulations promulgated by the department of transportation for the use of its rights-of-way shall be considered the payment of due compensation.
(Ord. No. 09-05, § 1, 9-28-09)
Sec. 14-170. - Authorized designee.
The city manager, shall, on behalf of the city, exercise day-to-day administrative duties necessary to fulfill the regulatory authority of the city under O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1, et seq. and shall perform the following duties:
(1)
Review application information submitted by a telephone company to the city and, if an application is incomplete, notify the telegraph or telephone company within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of such application, identifying in such notice all application deficiencies.
(2)
Report the receipt of a completed application to the board of mayor and commissioners within sixty (60) calendar days of the receipt of such completed application.
(3)
Review payments of due compensation submitted by the company to ensure compliance with the provisions of the amended law and this article.
(4)
Provide a coordination function between a telephone company and all city departments on any matter relating to the amended law and this article.
(5)
Arrange and evaluate, no more than once a year, a comprehensive review of the records of a company which is reasonably related to the calculation and payment of due compensation.
(6)
Provide to all telegraph and telephone companies located in its rights-of-way written notice of annexations and changes in municipal corporate boundaries.
(Ord. No. 09-05, § 2, 9-28-09)
Secs. 14-171—14-190. - Reserved.
