ARTICLE II. - BUILDING OFFICIAL

Sec. 5-21. - Office of building official.
(a)
The city manager shall designate one (1) or more qualified persons to perform the duties of the office of building official pursuant to this Code of Ordinances.
(b)
Any person designated as a building official by the city manager shall serve at the pleasure of the city manager.
(c)
A building official need not be an employee of the city. The city may contract with any qualified person or entity to perform some or all of the duties of the building official.
(Code 1973, § 2-719; Ord. No. 13-04, § 1, 12-16-2013)
Sec. 5-22. - Powers and duties—Building construction generally.
(a)
The building official shall receive applications required of such official by this chapter, issue permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. The building official shall examine premises for which permits have been issued and shall make necessary inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with and that construction is completed safely. The building official shall enforce all provisions of the building codes. The building official shall, when requested by proper authority, or when the public interest so requires, make investigations in connection with matters referred to in the codes adopted in this chapter and render written reports on the same. The building official shall enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, secure the necessary safeguards during construction, require adequate exit facilities in buildings and structures, and issue such notices or orders as may be necessary.
(b)
Inspections required under the provisions of the codes adopted herein shall be made by the building official or such official's qualified representative. The building official may accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection services, after investigation of their qualifications and reliability. No certificate called for by any provision of the codes shall be issued on such reports unless the same are in writing and certified to by a responsible officer of such service.
(c)
The building official shall make written reports to the city manager as requested, including statements of permits and certificates issued and orders promulgated.
(d)
The building official may request and shall receive so far as may be necessary, in the discharge of his official duties, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the city.
(e)
The building official, in the discharge of his official duties, and upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-721(a), (b), (e), 2-723, 2-724)
Sec. 5-23. - Same—Public improvements, public recreation, etc.
Subject to the supervision and control of the city manager in all matters, the building official shall manage and have charge of the construction, improvement, repair and maintenance of streets, sidewalks, alleys, lanes, bridges, viaducts and other public highways; of all municipally owned sewers, drains, ditches, culverts, canals, streams, and watercourses; of all public buildings; of boulevards, squares, and other public places and grounds belonging to the city dedicated to public use, including recreational facilities and parks and playgrounds. The building official shall have charge of the enforcement of all obligations of privately owned or operated public utilities enforceable by the city. The building official shall have charge of the making and preservation of all surveys, maps, plans, drawings.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-367, 2-374)
Sec. 5-24. - Records and plans.
(a)
Maintenance and retention. The building official shall keep and maintain comprehensive records of applications, permits issued, inspections made, certificates of occupancy issued, reports rendered, and of notices and orders issued. He shall retain on file copies of required plans and documents relating to buildings, equipment, appliances or systems for which a permit has been issued so long as any part of the building or structure to which they relate may be in existence.
(b)
Public inspection. All such records and plans shall be open to public inspection during the building official's normal office hours but shall not be removed from their place of keeping.
Sec. 5-25. - Appeals from decision of building official.
(a)
Basis for appeal. When the building official shall reject or refuse to approve the mode or manner of work proposed or performed, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the codes adopted in section 5-41 do not apply, or that an equally good or desirable form, method or process can be employed in any specific case, or when it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of the codes adopted in section 5-41 or any of the regulations thereunder have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the permittee or contractor may appeal from the decision of the building official to the city's board of appeals.
(b)
Time limitation for appeals; exception. Appeals shall be in writing and shall be filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the decision is rendered by the building official. In case a building, system, appliance or equipment is unsafe or dangerous in the opinion of the building official, he may, in his order or decision, limit the time of such appeal to a shorter period.
Sec. 5-26. - Liability.
(a)
An employee of the city designated as building official and acting in such capacity in good faith and without malice is hereby relieved of all personal liability for his official acts.
(b)
Any suit brought against such an employee acting in good faith for any official act or omission in the performance of his duty as building official shall be defended by the city.
(Code 1973, § 2-722; Ord. No. 13-04, § 2, 12-16-2013)
Sec. 5-27. - Contracting with county if position not occupied.
(a)
If the position of building official is not occupied or if the governing body concludes that it would be more efficient, the city may elect to contract with the county for the provision of plans review, issuance of building, plumbing, HVAC, and electrical permits, and inspections of same within the city pursuant to the following:
(1)
A resolution shall be adopted by the governing body.
(2)
The city shall review all plans for compliance with the city's zoning requirements, development standards, and other ordinances.
(3)
An application form for any planned construction involving new structures or additions to existing structures shall be completed by the city and when signed by an authorized city official shall signify to the county that the plans are in compliance with the city's zoning requirements, development standards, and other ordinances.
(4)
An application/authorization fee shall be charged by the city in an amount as determined by the city manager.
(5)
Only those state codes and amendments adopted by the county shall be enforced in the city by the county.
(6)
The fees charged for such permits issued by the county shall be in accordance with those adopted by the county and such fees shall be retained by the county.
(7)
Code violations found and not corrected during the normal inspections process shall be referred to and prosecuted by the city. County inspection staff may appear as expert witnesses for the city.
(8)
The county shall issue a certification of completion when all final inspections have been performed and approved.
(9)
A certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the city upon receipt of a certification of completion and verification that the completed work is in compliance with the city's zoning requirements, development standards, and other ordinances.
(b)
An authorization/building permit shall be required in situations where a permit is not required by the county if a review of plans for compliance with the city's zoning requirements, development standards, and other ordinances is necessary (e.g., fencing). The fee for such authorization/building permit shall be in accordance with the building permit fee specified in article III.
Secs. 5-28—5-40. - Reserved.
