Chapter 46 - TAXATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq.

Sec. 46-1. - Property tax.
All owners of real or personal properties within the corporate limits of the city shall make returns of their property to the tax commissioner of the county or other designated authority in the method required by state law to identify all property, real and personal, located within the city subject to taxation. All properties are subject to taxation by the city on January 1, after the property is acquired, improved or changed so as to affect taxation of such property in the city.
Sec. 46-2. - Homestead exemption.
For each taxable year, the city does hereby grant to each person who is 65 years of age or over an exemption from all ad valorem taxes levied by the city in an amount of $2,000.00 on the homestead owned and occupied as a residence on January 1. There shall be no more than one such exemption per homestead. The value of the homestead in excess of the exempted amount shall remain subject to ad valorem taxation by the city. No resident shall be qualified to receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless an affidavit is filed with the city clerk or county tax authority, giving the resident's age and any additional information as may be required to enable a proper determination to be made as to whether such owner is entitled to the exemption. After approval of homestead exemption it shall not be necessary to annually apply for the exemption. It shall be the duty of the owner to notify the proper taxing authority if the residence becomes ineligible for exemption because of transfer of title, death or failure to reside in the residence. The exemption application must be filed between January 2 and March 31 of each year, as required. Failure to timely file will result in no exemption being allowed for that taxable year.
Sec. 46-3. - Tax millage established; billing.
(a)
Following receipt of the state approved tax digest, evaluations submitted in accordance with the state law from the county, with adjustments unique to the city for matters such as franchises, freeport, city homestead exemptions and public acquired properties after the assessment date, the city commission shall set a tax millage for taxation of all taxable properties within the city as deemed to be in the best interest of the citizens to provide services, provide for payment of public debt, and all other revenue purposes and needs of the city as authorized by the Charter and state law.
(b)
The city clerk shall promptly prepare, or have prepared, final tax bills on all properties contained in the tax digest with the due date for payment of taxes stated therein.
Sec. 46-4. - Due dates and penalties.
All taxes levied pursuant to the Charter and this article shall be due and payable upon receipt of the tax bill; provided, however, that the amount billed shall be past due and delinquent as provided in the bill. Interest shall be charged at the maximum allowed by state law on tax delinquencies on all past due tax assessments. In addition, following 90 days from the delinquent date, a penalty of ten percent of the amount of the tax due and not paid, together with interest, shall be assessed. Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the commission from authorizing special billing in accordance with state law when a timely tax digest is not submitted by the county.
Sec. 46-5. - Delinquent tax executions; liens; related matters.
(a)
As soon as practicable after the last due date for payment of taxes, the city clerk, or other official of the city, is authorized and directed to issue executions for the principal amount of all taxes due, and any interest and penalty up to the date of issuance of execution. All executions shall bear teste in the name of the chairman of the city commission or other authority. Such execution shall be directed to the chief of police, or other law enforcement officer within the city, and shall contain information as to the type of tax execution, the amount owed and such other pertinent information as may be appropriate to ultimately levy, should this become necessary, upon the property, either real or personal, for collection of taxes. All tax executions which are levied against property shall be advertised and sold pursuant to the provisions of the Charter and Code of the city, and all governing provisions of state law.
(b)
All charges authorized by state law in connection with the execution and levying of taxes shall be made by appropriate officials of the city, and included in each execution and assessment for delinquent taxes within the city. Each execution issued under this section shall be a general lien against the person against whom the levy and execution is made. Further, this execution shall constitute a special lien against the property, returned or assessed for taxation for which the writ of execution was issued.
(c)
All executions issued under this section shall be entered upon the appropriate dockets of the county to give notice of the levying and fi. fa. of such execution. The cost of entry shall be added to such execution, and collected with all other principal, interest, penalties and other costs as may be authorized and collectable by law.
Sec. 46-6. - Erroneous assessment; uncollectible personal property.
(a)
Any property which is assessed in error may be corrected through the appropriate tax assessment officials of the county by application of any party who receives notice of taxes due, levied and/or executed in error within the corporate limits of the city. For purposes of this section, "error" does not mean that the owner thereof desires to contest the amount of taxes owed, but only refers to clerical errors in billing, incorrect property, incorrect ownership, or other technical irregularities in the tax digest.
(b)
Any personal property assessments and taxes within the city which are deemed uncollectible after diligent attempts have been made to collect same by the city clerk may be brought to the attention of the city council, at a regular meeting thereof. The clerk or other authorized official shall provide an explanation concerning the reason that personal property assessments cannot be collected. This removal shall only be accomplished pursuant to the approval of the city council.
Sec. 46-7. - Sale of property for delinquent taxes, assessments or other monies owed the city.
The police chief, after approval of the city clerk, or any other taxing authority of the city, shall have the authority to sell property, pursuant to this article, the Charter of the city and all state laws applicable to such sale, for delinquent taxes, assessments, license fees or other revenue assessments of the city. Notice of sale, method of advertisement of sale and all other matters concerning such sale shall be governed by the provisions of state law, which generally regulate sales upon tax executions.
