Chapter 52 - VEGETATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Plant disease, pest control and pesticides, O.C.G.A. § 2-7-1 et seq.; forest resources and other plant life, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-1 et seq.; timber harvesting and removal requirements, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-23 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 52-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Weeds means any brush, grass, vegetation, or any plant that is not regularly cut or cultivated. The term "weeds" does not include plants maintained in a garden or for agricultural purposes. A plant shall be deemed to be regularly cultivated within the meaning of this chapter if it is routinely cared for by any person or to foster, encourage, or promote its growth.
(Ord. of 3-14-2006, div. I, § 1)
Secs. 52-2—52-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WEEDS

Sec. 52-21. - Applicability.
This article applies to owners and occupants of all residential and commercial structures and to any person who owns a vacant, developed or undeveloped property.
Sec. 52-22. - Growth of weeds; vegetation.
(a)
The excessive, unmaintained, and uncontrolled growth of any weeds within 50 feet of the property line of a habitable dwelling or commercial building on any lot or within 50 feet of a city street or highway within the corporate limits is objectionable, unsightly, and unsanitary, and shall constitute a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any such property as defined in this Code to permit such growth to occur.
(b)
This section shall not be applicable to flower gardens, undeveloped property, or plots used for agricultural purposes, or the regular cultivation of any plant or other vegetation, or undeveloped property, or weeds and vegetation.
(Ord. of 3-14-2006, div. I, § 8)
Sec. 52-23. - Poison ivy, poison sumac.
(a)
Nuisance declared. Toxicodendron or toxicodendron vernix, commonly known as poison ivy and poison sumac, are hereby declared to be nuisances per se, the existence and growing of which constitutes a menace to the health of the citizens of the city and is dangerous to all persons coming in contact therewith.
(b)
Duty of owner, occupant. It shall be the duty of every person who owns or who is in possession of a lot upon which such plants grow to take such action as will effectively kill and destroy such poisonous plants, and it shall be unlawful for such person to fail to do so.
(c)
Duty, authority of city inspector. The inspector of the city is hereby authorized and directed to destroy all poison ivy or poison sumac plants growing upon the street, sidewalks or other property belonging to the city. The inspector and any employee of the city are likewise authorized to enter upon private property for the purpose of destroying those plants when it is necessary to protect the public, following the procedures of this article.
(Ord. of 3-14-2006, div. I, § 7)
Sec. 52-24. - Public nuisance.
Violation of this article is deemed as a public nuisance, which may be abated as provided by state law.
Secs. 52-25—52-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TREES

Sec. 52-52. - General tree and shrub regulations.
No person shall, without the consent of the owner in the case of a tree or shrub on private property or without permission from the city in the case of a tree or shrub on city property, do any of the following acts:
(1)
Climb, bark, break, peel, cut, deface, injure or destroy the whole or any part of any tree, sapling, or shrubs now growing or which may hereafter be planted by any person or by the city in any street or public place of the city, nor may any such tree be removed or cut down unless by permission of the city.
(2)
Secure, fasten or run any rope, wire, sign, or other device or material to, around or through a tree or shrub.
(3)
Permit any fire to burn where it will injure any tree or shrub.
(4)
Permit any toxic chemical, gas, smoke, brine, oil or other injurious substance to seep, drain, or be emptied upon any tree or shrub.
(5)
Place any stone, concrete, brick or any other impervious material in such a manner as to obstruct the free access of air and water to the roots of the tree or shrub.
(Ord. of 3-14-2006, div. I, § 16)
Sec. 52-53. - Dead or diseased trees.
Any dead or diseased tree or part of a tree is a nuisance per se when, by reason of such condition, natural forces may, more readily than if such tree or part thereof were live or not diseased, cause the tree or any part thereof to fall onto public ways, public sidewalks or public property, or onto private property, off the property of the owner of the tree and thereby imperil life, property or impede traffic. Upon receiving a written opinion from a qualified tree surgeon that any tree or part thereof is a nuisance per se as defined in this article, the inspector shall commence abatement proceedings pursuant to the procedure provided in article III of chapter 26.
(Ord. of 3-14-2006, div. I, § 8)
Sec. 52-54. - Approval of council.
The city inspector shall report to the city council on each application to remove trees or shrubs. Each report shall include a recommendation of approval or disapproval of the application. The city council shall then approve or disapprove such application in writing.
