Chapter 48 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Motor vehicles and traffic, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 et seq.; uniform rules of the road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.; off road vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-7-1 et seq.; equipment and inspection of motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-1 et seq.; abandoned motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.; use of speed detection devices, O.C.G.A. § 40-14-2 et seq.; cities and counties authorized to enact ordinances for removal of vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 48-1—48-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 48-19. - Traffic-control devices.
(a)
The public works department shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals, and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of this city to make effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may place and maintain such additional traffic-control devices as may be deemed necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of this city or under state law.
(b)
The public works department is authorized to place markers, buttons, turtles, lines or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections.
(c)
The public works department is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right or left turn and shall place proper signs at such intersections.
(d)
The public works department is hereby authorized to take the following action:
(1)
Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in its opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such other places as may be deemed necessary.
(2)
Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as may be deemed necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(3)
Mark lanes for traffic and spaces for parking and loading on street pavements at such places as may be deemed advisable, consistent with the traffic ordinances of this city.
(e)
The public works department shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such street accordingly.
State Law reference— Authority to regulate traffic by means of official traffic-control devices preserved, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(2); traffic signs, signals, etc., O.C.G.A. § 40-6-20 et seq.
Sec. 48-20. - Authority of police department officials to enforce chapter.
It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department and such officers as are assigned by the chief of police to enforce all traffic laws of this city.
State Law reference— Authority to regulate traffic by means of police officers preserved, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(1); obedience to persons directing traffic required, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-2.
Sec. 48-21. - Records of traffic violations.
The police department shall keep a record of all violations of the traffic ordinances of the city with which any person has been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such alleged offenses.
Sec. 48-22. - Traffic accidents.
It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department to investigate traffic accidents, to arrest and to assist in the prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents, and to file and maintain records containing such accident reports.
State Law reference— Accidents and accident reports, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-270 et seq.
Sec. 48-23. - Issuance of summons.
(a)
Any police officer upon making an arrest for any violation of this chapter shall issue a summons to the alleged offender, directing him to appear at the next session of the municipal court, as the case may be, to answer the charges against him, requiring such bond as the police department may from time to time specify, but sufficient to ensure the appearance in court of alleged offender.
(b)
Service of a summons upon an alleged parking offender by affixing same to the illegally parked vehicle shall be legal and sufficient service upon the alleged offender requiring him to appear in court as directed.
Sec. 48-24. - Impoundment and disposition of motor vehicles.
(a)
The mayor and council hereby find and declare that the unauthorized stationary presence of unattended vehicles in any public way, when said vehicles are either parked, inoperable, or otherwise unlawfully restricting or obstructing the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, constitutes a nuisance and danger to the general health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(b)
Any person, at the direction of the chief of police or a duly certified police officer, is hereby authorized to remove and/or impound or have removed and/or impounded at their direction, a vehicle from any public or private way, under any of the circumstances enumerated herein, which circumstances are provided by way of illustration only, and not as a limitation:
(1)
When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct, subway or tunnel, or where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
(2)
When a vehicle upon a public way is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is for any reason incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal;
(3)
When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or parked illegally so as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic, or left unattended on any public street with engine running or with keys in the ignition switch or locked;
(4)
When any vehicle is parked or left standing upon any area or portion of a public street in violation of or contrary to a parking limitation or prohibition established by the chief of police, provided, such area or portion of such public street has been posted with an official sign giving notice both of such limitation or prohibition and of the fact that such area or portion of such street is a "tow-away" area;
(5)
When a vehicle is parked in violation of any traffic ordinance and is an obstruction or hazard or potential obstruction or hazard to any lawful function or limits the normal access to a use of any public or private property;
(6)
When the driver of such vehicle is taken into custody by the police department for any reason and the vehicle would thereby be left unattended upon a street, highway or restricted parking area, or other public way;
(7)
When a vehicle is parked without proper license plates or permits, or with no license plates or permits, or parked with an invalid or expired license permit;
(8)
When a vehicle is found parked on or so near to any railroad track as to block the same in any manner;
(9)
When any truck-tractor is found to be parked in any metered parking space;
(10)
When the driver of any vehicle, or the vehicle which the driver is driving, is reasonably suspected of having been involved in any hit and run accident;
(11)
When any vehicle is reasonably suspected of being a stolen vehicle, or parts thereof to be stolen parts;
(12)
When any vehicle is parked or stopped in an emergency access lane in violation of or contrary to a parking limitation or prohibition established by city ordinance, provided that such emergency access lane has been posted with an authorized sign giving notice both of such limitation or prohibition and of the fact that such area or portion of such public roadway or private property is a tow-away area.
(c)
The owner of any vehicle so removed and impounded shall be required to pay storage and other costs incurred by virtue of such removal and impounding, regardless of the cause of the conduct necessitating such action by the police department.
State Law reference— Disposition of personal property in the custody of law enforcement agencies, O.C.G.A. § 17-5-4; authority to remove vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-3.
Secs. 48-25—48-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TRAFFIC REGULATIONS

Sec. 48-52. - Adoption of Uniform Rules of the Road.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-6-370, the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq., known as the Uniform Rules of the Road, and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the city with like effect as if recited in this chapter.
Sec. 48-53. - Parental responsibility.
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 16 years to permit, whether knowingly or through ineffective control or supervision, such minor to violate any provision of this Code or state law regarding the operation of vehicles.
Sec. 48-54. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the roads of the city may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the chief of police may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts. Any person who violates such temporary traffic regulations shall be charged with such violations as for other violations of this Code.
Sec. 48-55. - Authorized emergency vehicles.
(a)
When responding to an emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, or when responding to, but not upon returning from a fire alarm, the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle may exercise the privileges set forth in this section but subject to the conditions herein stated.
(b)
The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of said vehicle while in motion sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, exhaust whistle or similar device as may be reasonably necessary and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle; provided, however, that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
(c)
This section shall not be construed to relieve the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions insulate or otherwise provide immunity for the driver from the consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(d)
Subject to the foregoing limitations, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
(1)
Park or stand in any public way, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter.
(2)
Proceed past a traffic light or stop sign, but only slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation through the intersection.
(3)
Exceed the speed limits specified so long as he does not endanger life or property.
(4)
Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in specified directions so long as he does not endanger life or property.
Sec. 48-56. - Improper operation of off-road vehicles.
(a)
Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "off-road vehicle," as used in this section, shall mean:
(1)
Any motorized vehicle designed for or capable of cross-country travel on or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland or other natural terrain, and not intended for use predominantly on public roads.
(2)
The term "off-road vehicle" includes, but is not limited to, four-wheel-drive or low-pressure-tire vehicles, two-wheel vehicles (including trail bikes and minibikes), amphibious machines, ground effect or air-cushion vehicles, and any other means of transportation deriving power from any source other than muscle or wind.
(3)
The term "off-road vehicle" does not include any motorboats; any military, fire or law enforcement vehicle; any vehicles used exclusively on airports; all farm machinery, farm tractors, and other self-propelled equipment for harvesting and transportation of forest products, for clearing land for planting, for utility service and maintenance, for earth moving, construction or mining; and self-propelled lawnmowers, snow blowers, garden or lawn tractors, or golf carts while such vehicles are being used exclusively for their designed purposes.
(b)
This section shall be considered as cumulative to any and all other laws, rules and regulations regarding the subject matter; however, if this section is in conflict with existing rules, regulations and resolutions, then, where it is in conflict, this section shall prevail.
(c)
As authorized by O.C.G.A. § 40-7-5, any person operating an off-road vehicle in the city under any of the following conditions shall be deemed to be in violation of this section:
(1)
Without operative brakes, or without mufflers or other silencing equipment.
(2)
In such a manner as to make, continue to make, or cause to be made any loud, unnecessary or unusual sound or noise which either endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the city, and which is audible to a person of normal hearing ability more than 50 feet from the point of origin of such sound or noise.
(3)
On any private property without the property owner or his agent being present or without being in possession of the expressed written permission of the property owner or his agent.
(4)
On the right-of-way of any street, highway, avenue, lane, public throughway, etc., of the city.
(5)
On the roadway of any street or highway of the city without complying with all appropriate state laws and city ordinances.
Sec. 48-57. - Sale of vehicles on rights-of-way prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended on or within the right-of-way of any public road in the unincorporated areas of the city any used motor vehicle that is marked for sale or otherwise displayed for sale.
(b)
The law enforcement officials of the city are authorized and empowered to impound any vehicle found to be in violation of this section. The owner of such vehicle shall be responsible for all expenses and charges incurred in the towing and storage of the vehicle.
Sec. 48-58. - Use of bicycles restricted.
No person shall operate a bicycle upon any sidewalk in the business district of this city. This section shall not prohibit persons from moving bicycles on sidewalks in such area while dismounted.
State Law reference— Authority to regulate persons on toy vehicles preserved, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(18); bicycles and play vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-290 et seq.
Secs. 48-59—48-89. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SPEED REGULATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Maximum speed limits, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-181; power of local authorities to alter speed limits, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-183.

Sec. 48-90. - Speed detection device authorized.
The law enforcement officers of the county are authorized to use speed detection devices as permitted by O.C.G.A. § 40-14-2.
(Res. of 5-11-1992)
State Law reference— Georgia Peace Officer Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.; authority for use or speed detection devices by local law enforcement officers, O.C.G.A. § 40-14-2; requirements that local government obtain state permit, O.C.G.A. § 40-14-2.
Sec. 48-91. - Reduction of speed when speed hazards exist.
(a)
No person shall drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and with due regard for the actual and potential hazards that exist. In every event, speed shall be so controlled as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other conveyance on or entering the street, road, highway or other avenues of travel, in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care and caution.
(b)
Where no speed hazards exist that require lower speed for compliance with subsection (a) of this section, the speed of any vehicle not less than the minimum limits or not in excess of the maximum limits or established as authorized herein shall be lawful, but no speed in excess of the maximum limits specified in this section, or established as authorized by this section, shall be unlawful unless special hazards exist that might require lower speed for compliance with subsection (a) of this section.
State Law reference— Alteration of speed limits by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-183.
Sec. 48-92. - On system speed zones.
The following speed limits shall be applicable within the city:
STATE ROUTE 1
MARTHA BERRY HIGHWAY
From mile point 6.65 (634 feet south of S.R. 1 Business, C.R. 80, Hilltop Drive, Buchanan City Limits) to mile point 9.22 (950 feet north of S.R. 1 Business and C.R. 225, Buchanan City Limits), a distance of 2.57 miles, the speed limit shall be 55 miles per hour.
STATE ROUTE 1 BUSINESS
CEDARTOWN STREET
From mile point 6.96 (50 feet south of C.R. 362, Westmoreland Road) to mile point 7.46 (200 feet south of C.S. 732, Jeffers Street), a distance of 0.56 miles, the speed limit shall be 50 miles per hour.
From mile point 7.46 (200 feet south of Jeffers Street) to mile point 7.71 (150 feet south of C.S. 737, Park Street), a distance of 0.25 miles, the speed limit shall be 45 miles per hour.
From mile point 7.71 (150 feet south of C.S. 737, Park Street) to mile point 8.43 (C.S. 704, Van Wert Street), a distance of 0.72 miles, the speed limit shall be 35 miles per hour.
From mile point 8.43 (C.S. 704, Van Wert Street) to mile point 8.70 (50 feet north of C.R. 480, Peyton Place Road, Buchanan City Limits), a distance of 0.27 miles, the speed limit shall be 45 miles per hour.
STATE ROUTE 120
DALLAS ROAD
TALLAPOOSA ROAD
From mile point 7.37 (1375 feet west of C.R. 182 and C.S. 701, Wesley Camp Road, Buchanan City Limits) to mile point 8.00 (200 feet west of C.S. 702, Williams Street), a distance of 0.63 miles, the speed limit shall be 45 miles per hour.
From mile point 8.00 (200 feet west of C.S. 702, Williams Street) to mile point 8.41 (500 feet east of C.R. 729 and C.S. 746, Carrollton Street), a distance of 0.41 miles, the speed limit shall be 35 miles per hour.
From mile point 8.41 (500 feet east of C.R. 729 and 746, Carrollton Street) to mile point 9.23 (250 feet west of C.R. 1, Welcome Hill Church Road), a distance of 0.82 miles, the speed limit shall be 45 miles per hour.
From mile point 9.23 (250 feet west of C.R. 1, Welcome Hill Church Road) to mile point 11.25 (700 feet east of C.R. 22, Hall Hill Road), a distance of 2.02 miles, the speed limit shall be 55 miles per hour.
(Ord. No. 2-6-98, 3-16-1998)
Secs. 48-93—48-112. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ABANDONED VEHICLES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1 et seq.; removal of junk vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 48-113—48-137. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PUBLIC PROPERTY

Sec. 48-138. - Abandoned vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for the operator or owner of a vehicle to leave such vehicle parked on a public street, alley, roadway, sidewalk, or other public way for a continuous period of more than five consecutive days. Any vehicle so parked for more than five consecutive days shall be deemed abandoned.
(Ord. No. 01089, § 1, 8-24-1972)
Sec. 48-139. - Vehicles without current license plates.
It shall be unlawful for the operator or owner of a vehicle to leave such vehicle parked on a public street, alley, roadway, sidewalk, or other public way without said vehicle having affixed, or prominently displayed thereon, a current state license plate.
(Ord. No. 01089, § 2, 8-24-1972)
Sec. 48-140. - Impounding vehicles authorized.
(a)
Whenever a police officer or other officer acting under authority as direction of the city shall find any vehicle parked on any street or other place in violation of law or in violation of the ordinances of the city, or abandoned on any street or other public place, and such officer is unable to find the owner, operator, or other person responsible for the same in the immediate vicinity after making a reasonable search and investigation, it shall be his duty to take possession of such vehicle and tow it to a place of storage and keep it in possession of the city until claimed by the person entitled to its possession, if claimed within the time herein fixed; provided however, that the person claiming the same shall pay all lawful costs as herein fixed. If deemed necessary by such officer, he shall call upon a towing or wrecker service or other person equipped for towing and storing such vehicles to remove said vehicle and store it.
(b)
Whenever any officer shall find upon any street, alley, roadway, sidewalk, or other public way any vehicle broken-down, wrecked, disabled, stalled, or in any condition or situation as to render the same likely to endanger life, limb or property, and the owner, operator or person in charge fails, neglects, or refuses to remove the vehicle with reasonable prompmtness, said officer shall cause the vehicle to be removed, impounded and kept in the manner specified in subsection (a) of this section, to be released upon compliance with the requirements of section 48-141 as to payment of costs and expenses.
(Ord. No. 01089, § 3, 8-24-1972)
Sec. 48-141. - Redemption of impounded vehicles.
The owner or person entitled to possession of a vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter may redeem said vehicle at any time within 30 days of the date of impoundment by paying the actual costs of impounding, towing and storing said vehicle, plus any penalty that may be assessed for violation of this chapter or any ordinance.
(Ord. No. 01089, § 4, 8-24-1972)
Sec. 48-142. - Sale of unredeemed vehicles.
In the event the owner or person entitled to possession of a vehicle impounded under this chapter fails to redeem same as provided in section 48-141, the city may proceed to effectuate its disposition by selling it after advertising said sale in the official city newspaper once. Said sale shall be by public auction for cash.
(Ord. No. 01089, § 5, 8-24-1972)
Secs. 48-143—48-167. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PRIVATE PROPERTY

Sec. 48-168. - Authority for removal.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4, derelict motor vehicles shall be removed from private property by the city and disposed of, when requested by the landowner or when such motor vehicles are in such a condition that they constitute a health or safety hazard or an unsightly nuisance. For purposes of this division, the term "derelict motor vehicles" means motor vehicles or parts thereof that are inoperable due to lack of repairs or are unsafe to operate due to lack of repairs or damage, or are discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped or ruined.
Sec. 48-169. - Removal when requested by private property owner.
When removal of a derelict motor vehicle is requested by the landowner or when a derelict motor vehicle is observed upon private property, the police department shall affix a decal to said vehicle which shall give notice that if the vehicle is not removed within ten days, the city will cause the vehicle to be towed or removed from the property.
Sec. 48-170. - Log of vehicles removed; disposal.
(a)
The police department shall maintain a log identifying such derelict motor vehicles removed pursuant to this division.
(b)
Any derelict motor vehicle which has been removed from private property as provided herein shall be disposed of as provided by law.
Sec. 48-171. - Costs of removal; removal by private firms under contract.
To minimize the cost to the city for the removal of derelict motor vehicles, the city shall contract with private individuals and firms whose operation includes the recycling of discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped or ruined motor vehicles. The requesting landowner shall bear the cost of the removal of a derelict motor vehicle.
Sec. 48-172. - Junk yards and automobile salvage yards excepted.
Nothing contained within this section shall be deemed to apply to any motor vehicles which are located within the premises of any junk yard or automobile salvage yard complying with the laws of this state and city relating to the licensing and regulating of motor vehicles or junkyards.
