Chapter 18 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27; authority to promulgate local rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28; mutual aid, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; dispatch centers to have trained communications officers on staff, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-19; mutual aid, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; war on terrorism local assistance, O.C.G.A. § 36-75-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this chapter from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. Emergency functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Essential officers and employees; nonessential employees means and refers to the mayor, constitutional officers, the police chief, police officers, police and other dispatchers, emergency medical service providers, road department employees and code enforcement personnel. All other city personnel are nonessential employees for purposes of this chapter.
Exempt individuals, unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, means those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the city council, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing that are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing were offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster or emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area by the disaster or emergency. The "subsequent recovery period" shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated, unless extended by official action of the city council.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Secs. 18-2—18-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY

Sec. 18-21. - Membership in county agency; director and coordinator.
An emergency management agency has been created by the county that includes the cities of Buchanan, Bremen, Tallapoosa, and Waco, Georgia. For purposes of coordinating the city's participation in the county plan, the city council has appointed the mayor as the city emergency management director and coordinator.
State Law reference— Authority for establishment of local emergency management organization, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 18-22. - Office of emergency management director.
The county emergency plan provides that the director of the county agency is appointed by the board of commissioners of the county, subject to concurrence of the mayors of the cities participating in the plan.
State Law reference— Local director required for state financial assistance, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27; authority for nomination of local director of emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 18-23. - Emergency management organization.
(a)
The county emergency plan provides that the emergency agency is composed of existing county and city departments and the emergency functions listed in this article are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Board of commissioners
and mayors Direction and control
Police departments; sheriff's
office Evacuation; police services
Emergency management agency Public information search, rescue and recovery resource management, communications and warning, radiological protection, state military support, training preliminary damage assessment and reporting, public property assistance, attack preparedness, specific hazards
Fire departments Fire services; hazardous materials
Public works departments Engineering; petroleum and solid fuel services; utilities
School superintendents Transportation services; food services
Health departments Health and medical services
City and county clerks Administrative services
Department of family and
children services Social services; shelter and temporary housing
  (b)
Heads of city departments listed in this section are responsible for developing the plan, in cooperation as necessary with county emergency personnel, for their assigned emergency functions. Such plans will be submitted to the city council for approval.
State Law reference— Local organizations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 18-24. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the city council, in cooperation with the county as contemplated by the county-city emergency management agency, may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the emergency power to:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
Seize, take for temporary use, or condemn any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city; maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
State Law reference— Rules, etc., authorized, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28; powers of local governing bodies during state of emergency or disaster, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 18-25. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter shall serve with or without compensation, as may be determined by the city council. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities under applicable state and federal law as city officers and employees.
State Law reference— Immunity of emergency management personnel, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-35; rights, privileges, and immunities of emergency aid workers, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-30.
Secs. 18-26—18-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PROCEDURE

Sec. 18-54. - Scope and applicability.
The procedures applicable within the city during a state of emergency shall be as set forth in the county's emergency operations plan (EOP), as amended from time to time, and in this article. A copy of the county plan shall be available in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 18-55. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency, or subsequent recovery period in which the city has been designated as a disaster area, for any person located or doing business in the city to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the city.
Sec. 18-56. - Unlawful acts during emergencies.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
To willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency management corps in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy, imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this city, or prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection of the city.
(3)
To wear, carry or display, without authority, any mark or identification specified by the emergency management agency.
State Law reference— Authority for local rules and regulations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
Sec. 18-57. - Meetings of governing body.
Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the city may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the city, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. If such meetings occur outside of the city, all actions taken by the city council shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the city. The mayor or any two members of the council may call such meetings without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
State Law reference— Operation of local governing authority during emergencies, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 18-58. - Purchasing and public works contracts.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, or the board of commissioners of the county, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, its designee or the emergency interim successor is not required to comply strictly with the Public Works Construction Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-91-1 et seq., and may, by way of example and not limitation, contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; however, any public works contract entered into pursuant to this section shall be entered on the minutes of the city as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
Sec. 18-59. - Code enforcement.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, or the board of commissioners of the county, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the city Code, or any portion thereof, if:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required;
(2)
Suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
Sec. 18-60. - Temporary dwellings.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, or the board of commissioners of the county, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, its designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired, provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the city council or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period of an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
Sec. 18-61. - Curfew.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, or the board of commissioners of the county, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and the property of the city. All of the territory of the city shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution. The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
Sec. 18-62. - Prohibition of appearance in public places.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or any other delineated part of the city during the stated hours of the curfew.
Sec. 18-63. - Continuity of city operations; essential and nonessential employees.
To promote civil stability and to provide basic services to the city in the case of emergencies or hazardous inclement weather, it is essential that the city be able to maintain an adequate workforce. Toward that end, the following rules shall apply during any state of emergency declared by authorized state, county, or city officials:
(1)
Essential employees shall be required to report to work at their regular shift unless called in early by their immediate supervisor or the mayor.
(2)
The mayor, in consultation as necessary with city department heads and county emergency management officials, shall decide whether to open the city hall and other city work facilities. It shall be their responsibility to notify city officers if city hall is to be closed. If city hall is open, all employees in all offices are expected to report for their assigned shift. If city hall is not opened for business at the regular opening hour, all employees are required to check in periodically for updates. Employees will not be paid for regular hours that city hall is not in operation.
(3)
Any employee not able to report for their assigned shift may take annual leave for those hours. If an employee reports for work and is then sent home by the closing of the courthouse, the employee will be paid for the remainder of the day.
