ARTICLE XIII. - RETIREMENT PLAN

Sec. 122. - Plan created.
There is hereby created the "Retirement Plan for Employees of the City of Moultrie" through which will be provided retirement and other benefits to the city's employees through a trust fund established for that purpose. Such plan is considered to be in the public interest in attracting and retaining better qualified personnel in the city's service and in providing greater personal security to its employees in their old age.
(§ 86, added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 123. - Definitions.
The following words and phrases as used in this Act [Article] shall, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context, have the following meanings:
(1)
Retirement Plan or Plan shall mean the Retirement Plan for Employees of the City of Moultrie created by this Act [Article].
(2)
Board of Trustees or Board shall mean the board of trustees of the Retirement Plan for Employees of the City of Moultrie, created by this Act [Article].
(3)
Employee shall mean any person employed by the city on a regular full-time basis.
(4)
Participant shall mean any employee who qualifies for participation under the provisions of the plan and who agrees to contribute the required percentage of his earnings each pay period to the plan.
(5)
City shall mean the City of Moultrie, Georgia.
(6)
City Council shall mean the city council of the City of Moultrie, Georgia.
(7)
Contributions shall mean the amount of money paid into the fund each fiscal year by the city to maintain an actuarially sound plan.
(8)
Participant contributions shall mean the contributions required by the participants each pay period which shall be withheld by payroll deduction by the city and transferred to the board for investment purposes in the fund.
(9)
Fund shall mean the trust fund established by the board under this Act [Article], to which participant contributions and city contributions are held for investment purposes.
(§ 87 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 124. - Board of trustees—Created.
There is hereby created an administrative board to be known as "The Board of Trustees of the Retirement Plan for Employees of the City of Moultrie". Said board may employ and contract with banks, trust companies, insurance companies and others authorized to do business in this state and exercise such other powers and responsibilities as conferred by this Act [Article] or as may be necessarily implied as incident to the purposes for which it is hereby created.
(§ 88 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 125. - Same—Membership; oath; compensation.
Said board shall consist of seven (7) members. To be eligible for membership on the board a person must be at least twenty-five years of age and a citizen of the state of Georgia. Members shall be eligible to succeed themselves only upon appointment as hereinafter provided.
Before taking office, each member appointed shall take an oath to faithfully perform his duties.
The members shall receive no compensation for their services, but shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Each member shall serve until his term expires and until his successor is appointed and qualified.
(§ 89 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2; Ord. No. 696, § 6, 5-16-1995)
Sec. 126. - Same—Terms of office.
Four members for a term ending December 31, 1996; and
Three members for a term ending December 31, 1995.
As the initial terms for which appointments have been made by the city council expire, future board members shall be appointed by the city council for two-year terms, such appointments to become effective on the January 1 following the date of appointment.
(§ 90 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2; Ord. No. 696, § 7, 5-16-1995)
Sec. 127. - Same—Vacancies.
Any vacancy occurring on the board prior to the end of the term to which such vacating member was to serve shall be filled by appointment of the city council, such newly appointed member to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term of the vacating member.
(§ 91 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 128. - Same—Officers and employees.
At its organizational meeting and at its first meeting following July 1 in each year, the board shall elect a chairman, secretary and treasurer. The secretary need not be a member of the board and the secretary, if not a board member, may receive such compensation as fixed by the board for performing his duties. The treasurer shall give good and sufficient bond in such amount as provided by the board, but not less than $30,000.00, and the premium thereon shall be paid from the administrative funds of the board.
(§ 92 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 129. - Same—Powers and duties.
The board shall have the following specific powers, together with such other powers as may be necessary or incidental thereto in effectuating the purposes of this Act [Article]:
(1)
To adopt by-laws governing its operations and procedures;
(2)
To determine the actuarial soundness of proposed retirement plans or contracts for the provision of retirement and other benefits to city employees and to execute or reject the same;
(3)
To request legal counsel from the city attorney in all matters pertaining to its duties in administering the plan and fund or incidental thereto;
(4)
To employ and contract with actuaries, accountants, medical personnel and other agents and employees as necessary for proper administration of the plan;
(5)
To employ and contract with banks, corporate trustees and insurance companies authorized to do business in this State, as further provided in this Act [Article];
(6)
To accept gifts and donations of property of every nature, and use the same for the purposes of this Act [Article];
(7)
To collect and disburse all money due or payable and to invest and reinvest the same;
(8)
To adopt mortality tables, interest assumptions and other assumptions as recommended by the actuary employed by the board;
(9)
To provide for and promulgate such rules, regulations and forms as deemed necessary or desirable in fulfilling its purposes of providing retirement and other benefits to city employees, and in maintaining proper record and accounts related thereto.
(§ 93 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 130. - Enactment of plan by ordinance; authorization of city contributions.
The retirement plan created by section 1 [2] of this Act [compiled as section 122 of this Article] may be implemented by the board as provided herein and as provided in rules and regulations promulgated by the board pursuant to this Act [Article]. The city council is hereby authorized to appropriate the necessary funds to provide the benefits under the plan and to pay the administrative costs of the board in administering the plan.
The plan shall be enacted by ordinance of the city council and shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the following provisions:
(1)
Eligibility requirements for plan participation;
(2)
Formula for determining retirement benefits;
(3)
Coordination of plan benefits with social security benefits;
(4)
Requirements for vesting of plan benefits in the participant;
(5)
Age and service requirements for retirement under the plan;
(6)
Total contributions to fund plan benefits shall be paid by the city council, reduced by the amount of contributions of participating employees;
(7)
Such other provisions as may be required to effectuate the purposes of the city in enacting the plan created by this Act [Article].
The city council is authorized to pay the contributions, defined in section 9 (6) [sic] [subsection (6)] above, which are required to fund the plan benefits; such contributions shall be paid from city funds on hand or to be collected in the year the contribution is made, and shall not be deemed to create a debt of the city.
(§ 94 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 131. - Participant's vested interest.
The plan shall provide that contributions made by a participant shall be returned to such participant or his estate in the event of death before retirement or in the event he is separated from city employment prior to the time he becomes eligible for retirement benefits. Such contributions may be returned without interest or with such interest as provided in the plan.
(§ 95 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 132. - Investment of funds.
The board is specifically authorized to place funds held by it with banks or trust companies having corporate trust powers, or insurance companies, authorized to do business in this state, and to authorize any such bank, trust company or insurance company to invest and reinvest such funds for its account, subject to the provisions relating to investments by trustees, or insurance companies, as the case may be, under the laws of Georgia. The board is further authorized to employ such banks, trust companies or insurance companies as agents for the keeping of records and the receipt and disbursement of funds held by or due the board. The board shall prescribe the powers and duties of such institutions in accordance with this Act [Article].
(§ 96 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 133. - Valuation of principal and income; deductions.
The board shall determine the principal and income of the fund on periodic valuation dates, established by the board, but at least each twelve months. Income shall be determined by the board in accordance with an established method which it may prescribe in its by-laws and which conforms to acceptable accounting practices in use by corporate trustees or insurance companies, as the case may be. The board shall deduct from either principal or income or both such charges, expenses and liabilities as it determines, in its discretion, to be chargeable against either. The income shall be added to and become part of the principal of the fund on such valuation dates as established by the board, but at least each twelve months.
(§ 97 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 134. - Independent audit.
At least once during each five year period, an audit shall be made of the fund by independent public accountants, who may be the accountants who audit the city's accounts, responsible only to and appointed by the board. The compensation and reasonable expenses of any independent public accountants may be charged to the fund and apportioned between principal and income as the board may deem proper.
The auditors appointed shall audit the accounts of the board and shall make a report of such audit, which shall include a list of the investments and other assets comprising the fund on the last day of the period covered by such audit, and shall show the valuation placed on each item as of the last date of the period covered by such audit, a statement of charges, sales and any other investment charges and of all income and disbursements since the last audit and appropriate comments as to any investment in default as to principal or interest.
Promptly upon receipt by the board of report of such audit, the board shall send a copy of same to the secretary of the city council.
In auditing the accounts of the board the auditors shall be required to make only such examination of the accounts and records as they deem reasonably necessary. The auditors shall incur no liability for any act done or suffered by them in good faith in the exercise of reasonable care.
The auditors shall include in their report their unqualified opinion on the presentation of the financial position and operations of the board. If such auditors are unable to express an unqualified opinion they shall so state and shall further detail reasons for their qualification or disclaimer, including recommendations for improvements.
(§ 98 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 135. - Administrative expenses.
The administrative expenses of the board including all operational expenses, fees, compensation and other costs, shall be paid from funds held by the board and shall be chargeable to either principal or income or both as determined by the board on any valuation date as hereinbefore provided in section 12 [section 133]. Administrative expenses for the first year of operation may be assessed against first year contributions.
(§ 99 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 136. - Legislative reservation of authority; disclaimer of state obligation.
Benefits arising under this Act [Article] and any contract made pursuant hereto are subject to legislative revision and no vested rights are created in the continuation of the plan hereby established.
Nothing in this Act [Article] shall create a debt of the State of Georgia.
(§ 100 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
Sec. 137. - Exemption of funds from process; nonassignability of contracts.
Funds held by the board or for its account shall not be subject to process, levy or attachment, nor shall benefits arising under this Act [Article] or any contract pursuant hereto be assignable.
(§ 101 added by 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3180, § 2)
