ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 7. - General regulatory powers.
The council shall have full power and authority to pass all by-laws and ordinances respecting public buildings and grounds, work houses, public houses, vehicles and conveyances of all kinds, pumps, wells, springs, fire engines, care of the poor, supervision of disorderly houses, houses of ill-fame, for the prevention and punishment of disorderly conduct, and conduct liable to disturb the peace and tranquility of any citizen or citizens thereof; and any other by-law, regulation and ordinance that they may deem proper for the security, peace, health, happiness, order and good government of said city.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 50)
Sec. 8. - Powers of council enumerated.
The council shall have the following named powers, to wit:
(a)
To determine its own rules and order of business and keep a journal of its proceedings.
(b)
To keep a permanent record of its proceedings and the ordinances.
(c)
To compel the attendance of absent members at its meetings.
(d)
To punish its members for disorderly conduct and behavior, and by vote of not less than four members expel a member for such conduct or for the violation of its rules; but no member shall be expelled unless notified of the charge against him and given an opportunity to be heard in his own defense.
(e)
To originate and institute proceedings for the investigation of acts and doings of the manager, the clerk, the treasurer, the marshal, the chief of the fire department, the superintendent of water and light plants, and any and all other officers and employees of said city involving their official conduct and performance of their duties with respect to the affairs and business of said city and also originate and institute proceedings for investigation of any of the affairs or businesses of said city, independently of the acts and doings of its officers and employees and in this connection the council shall have power to order hearings in regard to any such proceedings so instituted, whether with regard to its officers or its business, hold such hearings, fix the time and place of same, and the council shall have all the incidental power to subpoena witnesses, compel their appearance, compel them to testify under oath in regard to any matters under investigation, shall have the power to punish any witness for contempt for refusing to either appear or testify as such witness, and to compel the production of all pertinent documents, books, records and papers needed at such hearings and investigations with power to punish for contempt any person refusing upon proper subpoena the production of such documents. The council shall have plenary power with respect to any and all of the duties granted herein. It shall also be the duty of the council to exercise the powers herein granted when the interests of either the city or a citizen is involved.
(f)
To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, cable television systems, and other telecommunication systems, electric generating plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility, and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same; and to authorize the extension of water, sewerage, cable television and other telecommunications systems, and electrical distribution systems, and all necessary appurtenances by which such utilities are distributed, inside and outside the corporate limits of the city as provided by ordinance.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 10; 1951 Ga. Laws, page 3250, § 1; Ord. No. 799, § 1, 2-2-1999)
Editor's note— 1951 Ga. Laws, page 3250, § 28, appearing as § 49 of this compilation, provided for a penalty applicable to "this Act," § 1 of which amended § 10 (compiled as § 8).
Cross reference— Investigation upon suspension of city manager, § 25; requiring bonds, § 18.
Sec. 9. - Mayor and councilmembers; election; terms; vacancies.
(a)
The mayor and council members of the City of Moultrie who are serving as such on the effective date of this Act and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. On and after the effective date of this Act, the city council shall consist of six members all of whom shall be elected from council districts described in subsection (b) of this section except for the mayor who is elected at large as provided in this section.
(b)
(1)
For purposes of electing members of the city council, the City of Moultrie is divided into three council districts.
(2)
One member of the city council shall be elected from Council District 3.
(3)
Council District 1 shall consist of one election district with numbered posts 1 and 2. Council District 2 shall consist of one election district with numbered posts 3, 4, and 5. Each person seeking election from such district shall designate the post for which such person seeks election.
(4)
The three council districts shall be and correspond to those three numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Charter and further identified as "Plan: Option 6".
(c)
When used in such attachment, the terms "Tract" and "BG" (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a "BG" heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the City of Moultrie which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the City of Moultrie which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
In order to be elected as a member of the city council from a council district, a person must receive a plurality of votes cast for that office in that district only. Only electors who are residents of that council district may vote for a member of the council for that district. At the time of qualifying for election as a member of the board from a council district, each candidate for such office shall specify the council district and post, as applicable, for which that person is a candidate. A person elected or appointed as a member of the board from a council district must continue to reside in that district during that person's term of office or that office shall become vacant.
(e)
The mayor may reside anywhere within the City of Moultrie and, if elected, must receive a plurality of votes cast for that office in the entire city. The mayor must continue to reside within the city during that person's term of office or that office shall become vacant.
(f)
(1)
The members of the council representing Council District 1, Post 2; Council District 2, Post 5; and Council District 3 shall be elected at the general election in 2013 and quadrennially thereafter and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(2)
The mayor and members of the council representing Council District 1, Post 1; Council District 2, Post 3; and Council District 2, Post 4 shall be elected at the general election in 2015 and quadrennially thereafter and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(g)
Any vacancy in the office of mayor or council member which occurs for any reason shall be filled pursuant to Section 44 [19] of this Charter. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy in office pursuant to this subsection shall meet the same eligibility requirements specified for persons who are elected to such office.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 4; 1957 Ga. Laws, page 2579, § 1, 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1448), § 2; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 18), § 1; 1990 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1035), § 3; 2003 Ga. Laws (Act. 291), § 1; Ord. No. 2012-112, §§ 2—4, 1-17-2012)
Editor's note— 2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 291), § 1, amended 1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 4 (compiled as § 9) to read as herein set out.
Sec. 9.1. - Continuation in office upon adoption of Charter.
The present mayor shall continue in office as the mayor of the City of Moultrie under this charter until the expiration of the term for which he was elected and until his successor is elected and qualified and the present councilmen of the City of Moultrie shall continue in office as councilmen of the City of Moultrie until the expiration of the terms for which they were elected and until their successors are elected and qualified, and they and their successors shall have and exercise all the rights, powers and duties hereby conferred on the mayor and council of said City of Moultrie created by this Act [Charter].
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 4(b))
Sec. 9.2. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 867, adopted Aug. 21, 2001, deleted § 9.2 of the Charter in its entirety. Former § 9.2 pertained to corruptly influencing vote and derived from the 1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 4(a).
Sec. 10. - Mayor; powers; duties.
(a)
The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the council and shall also have the power and perform the duties imposed by this Charter and the ordinances of the city. He shall be recognized by the courts for serving civil process and by the governor for purposes of military law. He shall have no regular administrative duties but in time of public danger shall, if so authorized and directed by the council, take command of the police, maintain order, and enforce the law. The mayor, together with such others as the council may designate, shall execute such written instruments on behalf of the city as may be required by the council.
(b)
The mayor shall have a vote on any matter of the council only in the case of a tie vote. In order to pass any ordinance or resolution or any other matter before the council, it shall require the favorable vote of four (4) of the council or the favorable vote of three (3) of the council and the mayor voting only in case of a tie.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 6; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 18), § 3; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 471), § 2)
Editor's note— Although 1957 Ga. Laws, page 2579, § 1, purported to amend § 6, it patently was intended to amend § 4 and has been treated by the editors as a typographical error.
Cross reference— City manager as chief administrative officer, § 16; quorum, vote, § 21.
Sec. 11. - Oath of office.
Before entering on their duties the persons elected as mayor and members of council shall appear at the council chamber of said city and take and subscribe before some officer authorized to administer an oath or one of the retiring councilmen or the mayor of said city, the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear that I will perform the duties of mayor (or councilmen as the case may be) of the City of Moultrie to the best of my skill and ability, as to me shall seem to the best interest and welfare of the City of Moultrie, without fear, favor or affection, so help me God."
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 9)
Sec. 12. - Compensation of mayor and council.
The compensation of the mayor and council shall be fixed in the manner provided by state law. Until a different rate of compensation is provided, the mayor and council shall receive such pay as did their immediate predecessors.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 64; Ord. No. 696, § 1, 5-16-1995)
Cross reference— Compensation of mayor and city council, § 2-81.
Sec. 13. - Mayor pro tem.
At the first meeting in the month of January following a regular municipal election, the council shall choose a mayor pro tem from their members. If a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor, or in case of his absence or disability, the mayor pro tem shall act as mayor for the unexpired term or during the continuance of absence or disability. In the absence of the mayor and mayor pro tem, any of said councilmen so selected at the time may act as mayor pro tem.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 81; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1280), § 8; Ord. No. 696, § 2, 5-16-1995)
Sec. 14. - City clerk and treasurer; duties.
The offices of the city clerk and finance director may be held by the same person. It shall be the duty of the clerk to attend all meetings and to prepare the official minutes of the city council, to serve as the custodian of the city seal and to affix the same to bonds, deeds, contracts and other city documents as required and necessary for the appropriate attesting of the same, to further serve as the custodian for all city ordinances, resolutions, minutes, deeds, contracts, records and other documents and to oversee codification and update of the Code of Ordinances and Charter of the city including distribution of the same. The city council may likewise appoint an assistant city clerk who will assist the city clerk in the performance of the duties of that office as necessary and will perform those duties in the absence of the clerk. The finance director will oversee the collection and distribution of all sums due the city and will maintain the separate funds and make written monthly reports of the same. The finance director will further oversee the payment of all sums due by the city to others and will assist the city manager in the preparation of annual budgets for the city and perform other responsibilities as assigned by the city manager.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 45; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2130, § 12; Ord. No. 816, § 1, 9-7-1999)
Sec. 15. - City attorney.
The city attorney shall be an attorney at law who shall have practiced in the State of Georgia for at least five years. He shall be the chief legal adviser of and attorney for the city and all departments and offices thereof in matters relating to their official powers and duties. It shall be his duty to attend all meetings of the council; to give advice in writing, when so requested, to the council, the city manager or the director of any department; to prosecute or defend, as the case may be, all suits or cases to which the city may be a party; to prosecute for all offenses against the ordinances of the city and for such offenses against the laws of the state as may be required of him by the council; to prepare all contracts, bonds and other instruments in writing, in which the city is concerned, and to endorse on each his approval of the form and the correctness thereof; and to perform such other duties of a legal nature as the council may by ordinance require. In addition to the duties imposed upon him by this charter or required of him by ordinance or resolution of the council he shall perform any duties imposed upon the chief legal officers of municipalities by law.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 20)
Sec. 16. - City manager; qualifications; appointment; removal; powers and duties.
The city manager shall be the head of the administrative branch of the city government. The city manager shall be chosen by the council solely on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to his actual experience in, or his knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the duties of his office as hereinafter outlined. At the time of his appointment he need not be a resident of the city or state, but during his tenure of office he shall reside within the city. Subsequent to such election, no person elected to membership on the council shall be eligible for appointment as city manager until one year has elapsed following the expiration of the term for which he was elected.
The city manager shall be appointed by and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council of the City of Moultrie.
In case of the absence or disability of the manager the council may designate a qualified administrative officer of the city to perform the duties of the manager during such absence or disability.
(a)
The city manager shall receive such compensation as may be prescribed by resolution of the council.
(b)
The city manager must devote all of his working time and attention to the affairs of the city, and shall be responsible to the council for the efficient administration of all of the affairs of the city over which he has jurisdiction.
(c)
The city manager shall have power and it shall be his duty:
(1)
To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced.
(2)
To appoint the marshal or chief of police, a superintendent of the water and light plant, a chief of the fire department, and such other officers and employees as may be necessary or proper; provided that excepted from this power of appointment are those officers and employees who by the charter of said city are appointed or elected by the council.
(3)
To remove other employees employed by him without the consent of the council and without assigning any reason therefor; provided, nothing herein shall operate or confer upon the city manager supervision and control over the city planning commission, board of zoning appeals, trustees of the public library, city attorney, board of tax assessors, or recorder.
(4)
To exercise supervision of all departments and all divisions created in this Act [Charter], or that may hereafter be provided for; provided, nothing herein shall operate to confer powers not provided in this Act [Charter].
(5)
To attend all meetings of the council with a right to take part in the discussion, but having no vote. The city manager shall be entitled to notice of all special meetings.
(6)
To recommend to the council for adoption such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient.
(7)
To make and execute all lawful contracts on behalf of the city as to matters within his jurisdiction, except such as may be otherwise provided by law or by ordinance passed by the Council, provided that no contract, purchase or obligation involving over five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall become valid and binding until after approval of the Council.
(8)
To act as budget commissioner and to submit to the council prior to the beginning of each fiscal year a proposed budget for its action showing proposed receipts and expenditures for the ensuing year and in as much detail as practicable the amount allotted to each department of the city government and the reasons for such estimated expenditures.
(9)
To keep the council at all times fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city.
(10)
To make such written reports to the council as it may require on a monthly basis by the fifteenth (15th) day of the succeeding month.
(11)
To fix all salaries and compensation of city employees lawfully employed by him with the advice and consent of the council.
(12)
To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this Act [Charter], or required by ordinance or resolution of the council.
(13)
The City Manager shall be the purchasing agent for the city by whom all the purchases of supplies for departments under his control, as herein provided, and all contracts for printing shall be made, and he shall approve all vouchers for same; provided, that all contracts or agreements made by him requiring the expenditures of money to the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more shall be approved by the Council. In the capacity of purchasing agent, he shall conduct all sales of personal property which the Council may authorize to be sold, and which have become unnecessary or unfit for the city's use. All such sales shall conform to such regulations as the Council [may] from time to time prescribe. In any case of purchase or sale, if an amount in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be involved, opportunity for competition shall be given.
(14)
The city manager, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall give bond in the penal sum of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) to be fixed and approved by the council (the premium of which shall be paid by the city), payable to the City of Moultrie and its successors, for the benefit of the city and for the use and benefit of the public, to secure and indemnify the city and any of the public, by reason of his default, misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in the performance of his duties. Said city manager shall not spend any sums in excess of the budget as fixed by the council at the beginning of each fiscal year, without the consent of the council.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 18; 1951 Ga. Laws, page 3250, § 3; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1448), § 5; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1280), § 4; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 471), § 4; Ord. No. 777, §§ 1—3, 3-17-1998)
Sec. 17. - Marshal; powers and duties; eligibility for offices of marshal, clerk, city attorney.
It shall be the duty of the marshal of said city to levy all executions in favor of said city for taxes and fines, and advertise and sell the property levied on in accordance with the laws governing sheriff's sales in this state. He shall have the same power to place purchasers in possession as have sheriffs of this state. No person shall be eligible to the office of marshal, clerk or city attorney, who is not a qualified voter of the state and county.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 21)
Sec. 18. - Additional city officers; compensation; oath; bond.
At the first meeting of the council after their qualification, they shall choose a city manager, a city attorney, and a city recorder. They shall also choose a city representative to the board of trustees of the public library and appoint city members to the joint planning commission and to the city board of zoning appeals as their terms expire, as herein provided. They may also choose a comptroller and specify his duties. They may at any time fill any vacancies that occur in any of the above offices. The officers and employees elected or chosen by the council shall receive such compensation, take such oath, and when required give such bond as may be fixed by the council.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 17; 1957 Ga. Laws, page 2579, § 3; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2130, § 1; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1280), § 3)
Sec. 19. - Filling vacancies.
The council shall have the power to fill any vacancy that may occur in any office under election or appointment of said council. Should any vacancy occur in the office of council or mayor, the remaining members may fill said vacancy by electing any citizen of said city, qualified to hold the office to such vacancy. Said officer so elected shall hold said office until the next regular election for members of council, when his successor shall be elected to fill out such unexpired term, as prescribed by sections 64—66 of this Act [Charter].
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 44)
Cross reference— City attorney, § 15
Sec. 20. - Council meetings.
At 7:00 p.m. on the first Tuesday in January following a regular municipal election, the council shall meet at the usual place for holding its meetings and the newly elected members shall assume the duties of office. Thereafter, the council shall meet at such times as may be prescribed by ordinances or resolutions, but not less frequently than once each month. Such meetings shall be called by the clerk upon the written request of the mayor, the city manager, or three (3) members of the council. All meetings of the council shall be open to the public, and the rules of the council shall provide that citizens of the city shall have a reasonable opportunity to be heard at any such meeting in regard to any matter considered at such meeting; but, by a vote of four (4) of the members, the council may authorize an executive meeting.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 8; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1448), § 3; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 471), § 3; Ord. No. 696, § 3, 5-16-1995)
Sec. 21. - Quorum; voting.
(a)
A quorum of the council shall consist of the mayor or mayor pro tem and four (4) members of the council, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under such penalties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
No member shall be excused from voting on any matter, except that neither the mayor nor any member shall vote on any matter involving the consideration of his own official conduct or affecting his financial interests.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 11; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 18), § 4)
Cross reference— Mayor to vote in case of tie, § 10.
Sec. 22. - Adoption of ordinances.
It shall be necessary to have read in regular session of the council three times all proposed ordinances before they shall be voted on by said council; provided, that at the first reading of said proposed ordinance it may again be read at the same meeting by a unanimous vote of those present, and then it shall be ready for the third reading and passage at the next regular meeting of said council, provided, that in no event can an ordinance be voted on or become effective until it shall have been read at three regular meetings of said council, or at two regular meetings as above stated.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 12)
Sec. 23. - Effective date of ordinances.
Ordinances which do not provide for taking effect at a different time, shall take effect immediately after their passage.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 13)
Sec. 23.1. - Fee bills.
The council shall have the power to establish a fee bill for the officers of said city; said fees may be collected and turned in to the treasury of said city, or may be paid to the officer so earning said fees, as the council shall, by ordinance, direct.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 48)
Sec. 24. - Complaints against city employees.
The mayor and council shall have the right to report to the city manager any misconduct or improper performance of duty on the part of any employee of said city; whereupon it shall be the duty of said city manager to investigate said complaint and report to the mayor and council promptly his findings and actions in the matter. If said city manager shall fail to investigate and report promptly to the mayor and council upon the making of such complaint, then the mayor and council upon the making of such complaint, then the mayor and council [sic] shall have the right to cite said city manager to show cause when [why] he should not be removed from office. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the council and its members shall deal with such officers and employees solely through the manager and neither the council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinate of the city manager either publicly or privately.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 19; 1951 Ga. Laws, page 3250, § 4)
Editor's note— 1951 Ga. Laws, page 3250, § 28, appearing at § 98 of this compilation, provided for a penalty applicable to "this Act," § 4 of which amended § 19 (compiled as § 24).
Sec. 24.1. - Special district created.
Pursuant to Ga. Const. art. IX, § 111, added by an amendment ratified November 7, 1972 (1972 Ga. Laws, page 1552), there is hereby created a special district in the City of Moultrie which shall consist of the area embraced in blocks A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H and the courthouse square according to the Arthur Survey of said city and which is bounded on the north by First Avenue North, on the east by Second Street East, on the south by Second Avenue South and on the west by First Street West. The city may provide the following services in said special district and may levy an ad valorem property tax in said special district of not to exceed five (5) mills on the assessed value of the property within the special district to provide such services:
(a)
Street and road construction and maintenance; including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic.
(b)
Urban redevelopment program.
(c)
Parking facilities.
(Ord. No. 239, § 1, 12-7-1976)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 239, § 1, enacted December 7, 1976, added provisions designated as 24A of the Charter, which provisions the editors have redesignated herein as § 24.1 to comply with numbering system.
Sec. 25. - Investigation upon suspension of city manager.
The council shall be empowered and authorized, through a committee or by themselves, upon the suspension of the city manager, to examine into the working of, and business of, any officer, or conduct of any officer, and said committee, or the council conducting said examination, shall have power to send for such persons and papers, and compel the attendance of persons so summoned, swear witnesses, compel the production of such papers and all disclosures pertinent to such investigation.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 47)
Sec. 25.1. - Fiscal year.
Any other provision of this law to the contrary notwithstanding, the fiscal year of the City of Moultrie shall be from October 1 through September 30 of each year.
(1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1220), § 7)
Editor's note— 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1220), § 7, amended the Charter by adding § 70A, which section was redesignated as § 25.1 by the editors for purposes of classification.
