Rule 24 - SERVICE FOR CITIES AND DISTRICTS
Rules:

24.01 - Service for cities.
In addition to the foregoing functions and duties prescribed by the Charter and these Rules, the commission and the director of personnel shall perform such functions and duties for cities as are authorized by contract between the county of Los Angeles and such cities. Where not inconsistent with the applicable constitutional provisions, statutes, charters, ordinances, rules, or instructions of such municipalities, or with the provisions of such contracts, these Rules shall apply as the Civil Service Rules of such cities. When so applied, the word "city" shall be substituted for the word "county" in these Rules. The following rules shall not apply to cities: Rules 21, 22 and 23.01.*
(Ord. 88-0020 ยง 1 (part), 1988.)
*See Section 45008, Government Code; Los Angeles County Charter, Section 561/2.
24.02 - Service for districts.
A.
Where not inconsistent with applicable constitutional or statutory provisions, these Rules shall also serve as the Civil Service Rules of all districts which are under the county civil service system, including all jurisdictional districts in Los Angeles County. When so applied, the word "county" in these Rules shall read "district."
B.
The commission shall act as the civil service commission of all such districts, and the director of personnel shall act as the director of personnel for such districts.
(Ord. 88-0020 ยง 1 (part), 1988.)
24.03 - Joint examinations.
When appropriate, the same examination may be used for positions in the county service and for positions in the service of any district or city which is served by this commission, or for positions in any two or more such entities, except that separate eligible lists shall be prepared and maintained, and, on acceptance of a permanent appointment from one of such eligible lists, such person's name may be removed from all other eligible lists prepared from the same examination.
(Ord. 88-0020 ยง 1 (part), 1988.)
