903.2.11.7 - Occupancies in Fire Hazard Severity Zones and Within the Malibu-Santa Monica Mountains or San Gabriel Southface Areas.
An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be installed in every occupancy which is newly constructed or which is modified, reconstructed, or remodeled by adding 50 percent or more of the floor area of the existing occupancy, within any 12-month period, where the occupancy is located in a Fire Hazard Severity Zone and within the Malibu-Santa Monica Mountains or the San Gabriel Mountains Southface Areas, as defined in Appendix P.
Exceptions:
1.
Occupancies located in the San Gabriel Mountains Southface Area and which are located three miles or less from the closest existing or planned Los Angeles County Fire Station capable of supporting firefighting resources are exempt from the fire sprinkler requirement. Travel distances shall be measured by the most direct route on streets or roads accessible to Fire Department apparatus.
2.
Occupancies modified, reconstructed, or remodeled by adding 50 percent or more of the floor area of the existing occupancy, where the total floor area of the occupancy after the modification, reconstruction, or remodel is less than 5,000 square feet (465 m 2 ), are exempt from the fire sprinkler requirement.
3.
Detached private garages, sheds, and agricultural buildings less than 200 square feet (19 m 2 ) in area and separated from other structures by a minimum of six feet (1829 mm), are exempt from the fire sprinkler requirement.
4.
Detached gazebos, pergolas, and carports open on two or more sides, that are separated from other structures by a minimum of six feet (1829 mm) are exempt from the fire sprinkler requirement.
5.
Detached U occupancies, separated from other structures by a minimum of six feet (1829 mm), built entirely out of non-combustible materials, and with no combustible storage, are exempt from the fire sprinkler requirement.
For the purposes of this subsection, "planned Los Angeles County Fire Station" means a fire station, approved by the Consolidated Fire Protection District of Los Angeles County that will be developed within five years from the date of building permit application for the subject development.
The Board of Supervisors finds it necessary to impose these requirements upon the issuance of a building permit because a failure to do so would place the residents of the subdivision or the immediate community, or both, in a condition perilous to their health or safety, or both.
(Ord. 2017-0003 ยง 142, 2017.)
