Chapter 1.16 - SUPERIOR COURT DISTRICTS[2]
Parts:
Part 1 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
Sections:

1.16.010 - Area divided—Statutory authority.
Pursuant to Section 69641 of the Government Code, the county is divided into 11 superior court districts as provided in this Part and Part 2 of this chapter.
(Ord. 83-0049 § 1, 1983: Ord. 7626 Art. 1 § 1, 1959.)
1.16.020 - Unincorporated territory annexed to a city other than Los Angeles.
Any unincorporated territory which may become annexed, other than pursuant to Section 35201.5 of the Government Code, to any incorporated city other than the city of Los Angeles shall, upon the operative date of such annexation, thereby become included within the same superior court district as the incorporated city to which it is annexed.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 1 § 2, 1959.)
1.16.030 - Incorporated territory excluded from a city other than Los Angeles.
Any incorporated territory which may become excluded or detached from a city and become annexed to an adjacent city other than the city of Los Angeles shall, upon the operative date of such alteration of city boundaries, thereby become excluded or detached from the superior court district in which it was located and become annexed to the superior court district which includes the city other than the city of Los Angeles to which the territory is annexed.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 1 § 3, 1959.)
1.16.040 - Unincorporated territory annexed to city of Los Angeles.
Any unincorporated territory which may become annexed, other than pursuant to Section 35201.5 of the Government Code, to the city of Los Angeles shall, upon the operative date of such annexation, thereby become included within the same superior court district as is that portion of the city of Los Angeles contiguous to the territory annexed.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 1 § 4, 1959.)
1.16.050 - Incorporated territory excluded from a city and annexed to city of Los Angeles.
Any incorporated territory which may become excluded or detached from a city other than the city of Los Angeles and become annexed to the city of Los Angeles upon the operative date of such alteration of the city boundaries shall thereby become excluded or detached from the superior court district which included that city from which the territory is excluded or detached, and become annexed to the superior court district which includes that portion of the city of Los Angeles adjacent to the territory which is annexed.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 1 § 5, 1959.)
1.16.060 - Boundary changes.
Any changes in boundaries to judicial districts resulting from the provisions of Ord. 5791, the Judicial Districts ordinance, adopted July 31, 1951 and any amendments thereto, shall constitute an automatic change in the boundaries of those Superior Court Districts described in Sections 1.16.070, 1.16.110, 1.16.130, 1.16.140 and 1.16.150 of this chapter, so that the boundaries of said superior court districts shall at all times coincide with the boundaries of those judicial districts which are a part of said superior court districts.
(Ord. 9743 § 1, 1969: Ord. 7626 Art. 1 § 6, 1959.)
Part 2 - DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
Sections:

1.16.070 - Central District.
The Central District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the west line of Section 6, Township 1 South, Range 14 West, S.B.M., with the centerline of Mulholland Drive; thence easterly along said centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to a line that is perpendicular to the northeasterly line of Cahuenga Boulevard West and that passes through the intersection of the southwesterly line of said Cahuenga Boulevard West with the easterly line of said Mulholland Drive; thence northeasterly along said perpendicular line to said northeasterly line of Cahuenga Boulevard West; thence northwesterly along said northeasterly line to the southeasterly line of Lot D, as shown on map filed in Case No. 70672 of the Superior Court of the state of California for the county of Los Angeles; thence northeasterly along said southeasterly line to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence northeasterly along said boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the most southerly southeasterly corner of the Lankershim Addition annexation to the city of Los Angeles; if thence northwesterly in a direct line approximately 75 feet to the most southerly corner of the city of Burbank; thence northeasterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Monterey Park; thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Montebello (at the most westerly northwesterly corner of said last-mentioned city); thence easterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Commerce; thence southwesterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence westerly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Manchester Avenue (at Central Avenue); thence westerly along the centerline of Manchester Avenue to the centerline of Vermont Avenue; thence southerly along the centerline of Vermont Avenue a distance of 190 feet to the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence westerly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of La Tijera Boulevard; thence northeasterly along said centerline of La Tijera Boulevard to the boundary of said city of Los Angeles; thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Culver City; thence northerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of La Cienega Avenue; thence northerly along said last-mentioned centerline and continuing northerly along the centerline of La Cienega Boulevard and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of said city of Los Angeles (just northerly of Olympic Boulevard); thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to said west line of Section 6, Township 1 South, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along section line to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 11718 § 1 (part), 1978: Ord. 9935 § 2 (part), 1969: Ord. 9743 § 2 (part), 1969: Ord. 7626 Art. 2 § 21, 1959.)
1.16.080 - North Central District.
The North Central District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Parcel 1
Beginning at the northeast corner of Section 1, Township 3 North, Range 15 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along range line to the north line of Lot 13 in Section 31, Township 3 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles, and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Osborne Street; thence southwesterly, westerly and southwesterly along said centerline to the centerline of Eldridge Avenue; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Foothill Boulevard; thence easterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the northwesterly prolongation of the northeasterly line of Parcel 230, as shown on Sheet 11 of the map of the Hansen Flood Control Basin, filed as County Surveyor's Filed Map No. 11880, on file in the office of the engineer of the county of Los Angeles; thence southeasterly along said northwesterly prolongation and northeasterly line to the northerly line of Parcel 231, as shown on said map; thence easterly in a direct line to the northeasterly corner of said Parcel 231; thence southeasterly in a direct line to the northwesterly corner of Parcel 243, as shown on Sheet 12 of said map; thence easterly along the exterior boundaries of the Hansen Flood Control Basin as shown on Sheet 1 of said map and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Branford Street; thence southwesterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Woodman Avenue; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Wentworth Street; thence continuing southeasterly and southerly along said centerline of Woodman Avenue to the centerline of Cantara Street; thence easterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Coldwater Canyon Avenue; thence southerly, southeasterly and southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Hatteras Street; thence southerly in a direct line to the intersection of said centerline of Coldwater Canyon Avenue, with the most northerly right-of-way line of Chandler Boulevard; thence westerly along said most northerly right-of-way line to the centerline of Fulton Avenue; thence southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Valley Vista Boulevard; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Dixie Canyon Avenue; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Mulholland Drive; thence easterly along said last-mentioned centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to a line that is perpendicular to the northeasterly line of Cahuenga Boulevard West and that passes through the intersection of the southwesterly line of said Cahuenga Boulevard West with the easterly line of said Mulholland Drive; thence northeasterly along said perpendicular line to said northeasterly line of Cahuenga Boulevard West; thence northwesterly along said last-mentioned northeasterly line to the southeasterly line of Lot D, as shown on map filed in Case No. 70672 of the Superior Court of the state of California in and for said county; thence northeasterly along said southeasterly line to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the most southerly southeasterly corner of the "Lankershim Addition" annexation to the city of Los Angeles; thence northwesterly in a direct line approximately 75 feet to the most southerly corner of the city of Burbank; thence northeasterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Pasadena; thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the south line of Section 13, Township 2 North, Range 13 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along section line to the southwest corner of said last-mentioned section; thence northerly along section lines to the south line of Township 3 North, Range 13 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along township line to the southwest corner of Section 36, said last-mentioned township and range; thence northerly parallel with the range line between Ranges 12 and 13 West, S.B.M., to the township line between Townships 3 and 4 North, S.B.M.; thence westerly along said last-mentioned township line to the point of beginning.
Parcel 2
Beginning at the intersection of the westerly line of Lopez Canyon Road, 40 feet wide, described in deed, recorded in Book 10757, page 57 of Official Records, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles and the north line of Section 1, Township 2 North, Range 15 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along section line to the first angle point in the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence continuing westerly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 83-0049 § 2, 1983: Ord. 7626 Art. 2 § 29, 1959.)
1.16.090 - Northeast District.
The Northeast District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the northeast corner of Section 3, Township 3 North, Range 10 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence southerly along section lines to the north line of Township 2 North, Range 10 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence along township line to the northwest corner of Section 2, said last-mentioned township and range; thence southerly along section lines to the northwest corner of Section 14, said last-mentioned township and range; thence westerly along section lines to the range line between Ranges 10 and 11 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence along said range line to the northeast corner of Section 13, Township 2 North, Range 11 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence westerly along section line to the northwest corner of said last-mentioned section; thence southerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Section 25, said last-mentioned township and range; thence easterly along section line to said range line between Ranges 10 and 11 West; thence along said range line to the northwest corner of Section 31, said Township 2 North, Range 10 West; thence easterly along section lines to the northwest corner of Section 35, said last-mentioned township and range; thence southerly along section line to the north line of Township 1 North, Range 10 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence along township line to the northwest corner of Section 2, said last-mentioned township and range; thence southerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Section 14, said last-mentioned township and range; thence westerly along section line to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Duarte (at the southeast corner of Section 16, said last-mentioned township and range); thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Irwindale; thence northwesterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the northerly right-of-way line of West Ramona Boulevard; thence westerly along said last-mentioned northerly line and continuing westerly along the northerly right-of-way line of San Bernardino Road to the boundary of the city of El Monte; thence northerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its intersection with the southerly right-of-way line of said San Bernardino Road, approximately 600 feet westerly from Cogswell Road; thence northerly, at right angles to said southerly right-of-way line, to the centerline of said San Bernardino Road; thence easterly along said centerline and continuing easterly along the centerline of said West Ramona Boulevard to the boundary of the city of Baldwin Park; thence southerly along the most westerly boundary of said last-mentioned city and the southerly prolongation thereof to the centerline of the San Bernardino Freeway; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the boundary of the city of Industry; thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its intersection with the westerly line of the San Gabriel River, approximately 300 feet southerly of Valley Boulevard; thence southerly and southwesterly along the westerly and northwesterly lines of said San Gabriel River to the centerline of Peck Road; thence southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the southeasterly line of said San Gabriel River; thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned southeasterly line to an angle point in the boundary of said city of Industry; thence southerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its intersection with the centerline of Rose Hills Road, formerly Cliota Street (along the southeasterly line of the Los Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad right-of-way); thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Workman Mill Road; thence southwesterly along said last-mentioned centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Whittier; thence southwesterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Beverly Boulevard; thence northwesterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the boundary of the city of Pico Rivera; thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Montebello; thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Monterey Park; thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Pasadena; thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the south line of Section 13, Township 2 North, Range 13 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence westerly along section line to the southwest corner of said last-mentioned section; thence northerly along section lines to the south line of Township 3 North, Range 13 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence westerly along township line to the southwest corner of Section 36, said last-mentioned township and range; thence northerly parallel with range line between Ranges 12 and 13 West, S.B.B. & M., to the township line between Townships 3 and 4 North, S.B.B. & M.; thence easterly along said last-mentioned township line to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 2 § 23, 1959.)
1.16.100 - East District.
The East District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the easterly boundary of the county of Los Angeles, with the south line of Section 18, Township 3 North, Range 7 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence westerly along section line to the southwest corner of said section; thence southerly along range line to the southeast corner of Section 13, Township 3 North, Range 8 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence westerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Section 18, said last-mentioned township and range; thence northerly along range line to the southeast corner of Section 13, Township 3 North, Range 9 West, S.B.B. & M,; thence westerly along section lines to the north line of Township 2 North, Range 10 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence along township line to the northwest corner of Section 2, said last-mentioned township and range; thence southerly along section lines to the northwest corner of Section 14, said last-mentioned township and range; thence westerly along section lines to the range line between Ranges 10 and 11 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence along said last-mentioned range line to the northeast corner of Section 13, Township 2 North, Range 11 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence westerly along section line to the northwest corner of said last-mentioned section; thence southerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Section 25, said last-mentioned township and range; thence easterly along section line to said range line between Ranges 10 and 11 West; thence along said last-mentioned range line to the northwest corner of Section 31, said Township 2 North, Range 10 West; thence easterly along section lines to the northwest corner of Section 35, said last-mentioned township and range; thence southerly along section line to the north line of Township 1 North, Range 10 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence along township line to the northwest corner of Section 2, said last-mentioned township and range; thence southerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Section 14, said last-mentioned township and range; thence westerly along section line to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Duarte (at the southeast corner of Section 16, said last-mentioned township and range); thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Irwindale; thence northwesterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the northerly right-of-way line of West Ramona Boulevard; thence westerly along said last-mentioned northerly line and continuing westerly along the northerly right-of-way line of San Bernardino Road to the boundary of the city of El Monte; thence northerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its intersection with the southerly right-of-way line of said San Bernardino Road, approximately 600 feet westerly from Cogswell Road; thence northerly, at right angles to said southerly right-of-way line, to the centerline of said San Bernardino Road; thence easterly along said centerline and continuing easterly along the centerline of said West Ramona Boulevard to the boundary of the city of Baldwin Park; thence southerly along the most westerly boundary of said last-mentioned city and the southerly prolongation thereof to the centerline of the San Bernardino Freeway; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the boundary of the city of Industry; thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its intersection with the westerly line of the San Gabriel River, approximately 300 feet southerly of Valley Boulevard; thence southerly and southwesterly along the westerly and northwesterly lines of said San Gabriel River to the centerline of Peck Road; thence southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the southeasterly line of said San Gabriel River; thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned southeasterly line to an angle point in the boundary of said city of Industry; thence southerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its intersection with the centerline of Rose Hills Road, formerly Cliota Street (along the southeasterly line of the Los Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad right-of-way); thence continuing northeasterly along the boundary of said city of Industry to the southwesterly boundary of the Rancho La Puente, as shown on map of Township 2 South, Range 11 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the west line of Fractional Section 13, Township 2 South, Range 11 West, S.B.B. & M.; thence southerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Fractional Section 24, said last-mentioned township and range; thence easterly along section line to the southeast corner of said last-mentioned section; thence along said range line between Ranges 10 and 11 West, S.B.B. & M., to the southwest corner of Fractional Section 19, Township 2 South, Range 10, West, S.B.B. & M.; thence easterly along section line to the centerline of Hacienda Boulevard; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of said county of Los Angeles; thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 7655 § 1, 1959: Ord. 7626 Art. 2 § 24, 1959.)
1.16.110 - Southeast District.
The Southeast District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the boundaries of the San Antonio Judicial District; the South Gate Judicial District, the Downey Judicial District, the Los Cerritos Judicial District, and the Whittier Judicial District.
(Ord. 9743 § 2 (part), 1969: Ord. 7626 Art. 2 § 25, 1959.)
1.16.120 - South Central District.
The South Central District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the boundaries of the Compton Judicial District and that part of the Los Angeles Judicial District lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Vermont Avenue and the boundary of the city of Los Angeles, said intersection lying southerly along said centerline 190 feet from the centerline of Manchester Avenue; thence northerly along the centerline of Vermont Avenue to the centerline of Manchester Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of Manchester Avenue to the first intersection with the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of the San Diego Freeway; thence westerly along the centerline of the San Diego Freeway to the boundary of the city of Los Angeles (in Western Avenue); thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 11718 § 1 (part), 1978: Ord. 9935 § 1, 1969: Ord. 7626 Art. 2 § 30, 1959.)
1.16.130 - South District.
The South District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the boundaries of the Long Beach Judicial District, the Catalina Judicial District and that part of the Los Angeles Judicial District which lies southerly of that portion of the center of the San Diego Freeway between Western Avenue and the Harbor Freeway.
(Ord. 9935 § 2 (part), 1969: Ord. 9743 § 2 (part), 1969: Ord. 7626 Art. 2 § 26, 1959.)
1.16.140 - Southwest District.
The Southwest District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the boundaries of the entire Inglewood Judicial District, the entire South Bay Judicial District and that part of the Los Angeles Judicial District lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of La Tijera Boulevard and the northerly boundary of the city of Inglewood; thence northeasterly along said centerline of La Tijera Boulevard to the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the most easterly corner of Lot 3 of Tract No. 25165 as shown on map recorded in Book 674, pages 30 to 34 inclusive, of Maps, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence southwesterly in a direct line through the most southerly corner of said Lot 3 (said last-mentioned line being the approximate southeasterly line and its southwesterly prolongation of the Marina Del Rey Entrance Channel) to the boundary of said city of Los Angeles (in the Pacific Ocean); thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9743 § 2 (part), 1969: Ord. 7626 Art. 2 § 27, 1959.)
1.16.150 - West District.
The West District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Decker Road, with the northwesterly boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence southwesterly along the boundary of said county of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its intersection (in the Pacific Ocean) with the southwesterly prolongation of a direct line which connects the most southerly and most easterly corners of Lot 3 of Tract No. 25166 as shown on map recorded in Book 674, pages 30 to 34 inclusive, of Maps, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles (said last-mentioned line being the approximate southeasterly line and its southwesterly prolongation of the Marina Del Rey Entrance Channel); thence northeasterly along said southwesterly prolongation and direct line to said most easterly corner of Lot 3; thence southwesterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses to the most southerly corner of the city of Culver City; thence southeasterly along the boundary of said city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of said city of Culver City; thence northerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of La Cienega Avenue; thence northerly along said last-mentioned centerline and continuing northerly along the centerline of La Cienega Boulevard and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of said city of Los Angeles (just northerly of Olympic Boulevard); thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the west line of Section 6, Township 1 South, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along section line to the centerline of Mulholland Drive; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Mulholland Highway (approximately one-half mile westerly of Topanga Canyon Boulevard); thence southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the boundary of said city of Los Angeles; thence northwesterly, westerly, southerly and westerly along said last-mentioned boundary to the center- line of Old Topanga Canyon Road; thence southerly, southwesterly and westerly along said last-mentioned centerline, and continuing westerly along the centerline of Mulholland Highway and following the same in all its various courses and curves to a line that is radial thereto and passes through the intersection of the northerly line of Mulholland Highway with said centerline of Decker Road (in the southeast quarter of Fractional Section 3, Township 1 South, Range 19 West, S.B.M.); thence northerly along said radial line to said intersection; thence northerly along said last-mentioned centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
Excepting therefrom that portion within the Inglewood Judicial District.
(Ord. 9743 § 2 (part), 1969: Ord. 7626 Art. 2 § 28, 1959.)
1.16.160 - Northwest District.
The Northwest District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Branford Street and the centerline of Woodman Avenue; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Wentworth Street; thence continuing southeasterly and southerly along said centerline of Woodman Avenue to the centerline of Cantara Street; thence easterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Coldwater Canyon Avenue; thence southerly, southeasterly and southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Hatteras Street; thence southerly in a direct line to the intersection of said centerline of Coldwater Canyon Avenue, with the most northerly right-of-way line of Chandler Boulevard; thence westerly along said most northerly right-of-way line to the centerline of Fulton Avenue; thence southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Valley Vista Boulevard; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Dixie Canyon Avenue; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Mulholland Drive; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Mulholland Highway, (approximately one-half mile westerly of Topanga Canyon Boulevard); thence southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence northwesterly, westerly, southerly and westerly along said last-mentioned boundary to the centerline of Old Topanga Canyon Road; thence southerly, southwesterly and westerly along said last-mentioned centerline, and continuing westerly along the centerline of Mulholland Highway and following the same in all its various courses and curves to a line that is radial thereto and passes through the intersection of the northerly line of Mulholland Highway with the centerline of Decker Road (in the southeast quarter of Fractional Section 3, Township 1 South, Range 19 West, S.B.M.); thence northerly along said radial line to said intersection; thence northerly along said last-mentioned centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence northerly, easterly and northerly along said last-mentioned boundary to the north line of Section 33, Township 2 North, Range 17 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along section lines to the northeast corner of Fractional Section 34, said last-mentioned township and range; thence southerly along the east line of said last-mentioned fractional section to the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Roscoe Boulevard; thence easterly along said last-mentioned prolongation and centerline to the centerline of Balboa Boulevard; thence northerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Lassen Street; thence easterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Woodman Avenue; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 83-0049 § 2, 1983: Ord. 7626 Art. 2 § 29, 1959.)
1.16.165 - North Valley District.
The North Valley District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
A.
Beginning at the intersection of the north line of Section 33, Township 2 North, Range 17 West S.B.M., and the boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence northerly along said boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the northeast corner of Section 1, Township 8 North, Range 17 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along the range line between Ranges 17 and 16 West, S.B.M. to the southeast corner of Section 36, Township 7 North, Range 17 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along the township line between Townships 6 and 7 North, S.B.M. to the northeast corner of Section 1, Township 6 North, Range 16 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along the range line between Ranges 16 and 15 West, S.B.M. to the southeast corner of Section 36, said Township 6 North, Range 16 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along the township line between Townships 5 and 6 North, S.B.M. to the northeast corner of Section 1, Township 5 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along the range line between Ranges 14 and 13 West, S.B.M. to the southeast corner of Section 36, said Township 5 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along the township line between Townships 4 and 5 North, S.B.M. to the northeast corner of Section 1, Township 4 North, Range 11 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along the township line between Townships 3 and 4 North, S.B.M., to the northeast corner of Section 1, Township 3 North, Range 15 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along range line between Ranges 15 and 14 West, S.B.M., to the north line of Lot 13 in Section 31, Township 3 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Osborne Street; thence southwesterly, westerly and southwesterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Eldridge Avenue; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Foothill Boulevard; thence easterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the northwesterly prolongation of the northeasterly line of Parcel 230, as shown on Sheet 11 of the map of the Hansen Flood Control Basin, filed as County Surveyor's Filed Map No. 11880, in the office of the county engineer of said county; thence southeasterly along said northwesterly prolongation and northeasterly line to the northerly line of Parcel 231, as shown on said map; thence easterly in a direct line to the northeasterly corner of said Parcel 231; thence southeasterly in a direct line to the northwesterly corner of Parcel 243, as shown on Sheet 12 of said map; thence easterly along the exterior of boundaries of said Hansen Flood Control Basin as shown on Sheet 1 of said map, and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Branford Street; thence southwesterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Woodman Avenue; thence northwesterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Lassen Street; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Balboa Boulevard; thence southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Roscoe Boulevard; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline and its westerly prolongation to the east line of Fractional Section 34, Township 2 North, Range 17 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along said east line to the northeast corner of said last-mentioned section; thence westerly along section lines to the point of beginning.
B.
Excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the westerly line of Lopez Canyon Road, 40 feet wide, described in deed recorded in Book 10757, page 57 of Official Records, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles, and the north line of Section 1, Township 2 North, Range 15 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along section line to the first angle point in the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence continuing westerly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 92-0133 § 1, 1992: Ord. 83-0049 § 4, 1983.)
1.16.166 - North District.
The North District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the boundary of the county of Los Angeles and the south line of Section 18, Township 3 North, Range 7 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along said south line to the southwest corner of said section; thence southerly along the range line between Ranges 7 and 8 West, S.B.M. to the southeast corner of Section 13, Township 3 North, Range 8 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Section 18, said last-mentioned township and range; thence northerly along the range line between Ranges 8 and 9 West, S.B.M. to the southeast corner of Section 13, Township 3 North, Range 9 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Section 14, Township 3 North, Range 10 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along section lines to the northeast corner of Section 3, said last-mentioned township and range; thence westerly along the township line between Townships 3 and 4 North, S.B.M., to the southwest corner of Section 31, Township 4 North, Range 10 West, S.B.M., thence northerly along the range line between Ranges 10 and 11 West, S.B.M. to the northwest corner of Section 6, said Township 4 North, Range 10 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along the township line between Townships 4 and 5 North, S.B.M., to the southwest corner of Section 31, Township 5 North, Range 13 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along the range line between Ranges 13 and 14 West, S.B.M. to the northwest corner of Section 6, said Township 5 North, Range 13 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along the township line between Townships 5 and 6 North, S.B.M. to the southwest corner of Section 31, Township 6 North, Range 15 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along the range line between Ranges 15 and 16 West, S.B.M. to the northwest corner of Section 6, said Township 6 North, Range 15 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along the township line between Townships 6 and 7 North, S.B.M. to the southwest corner of Section 31, Township 7 North, Range 16 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along the range line between Ranges 16 and 17 West, S.B.M., to said boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence easterly and southerly along said boundary to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 92-0133 § 2, 1992.)
Part 3 - LOCATIONS FOR COURT SESSIONS
Sections:

1.16.170 - Continuation at same places.
The locations of the present sessions of the Superior Court throughout the county of Los Angeles shall continue at the same places as established prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter until this Part 3 is amended pursuant to Section 69646 of the Government Code.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 3 § 40, 1959.)
1.16.175 - Superior Court sessions at municipal and justice court locations.
Notwithstanding any other ordinance provision, in addition to those locations within each Superior Court District where sessions shall be held, sessions of the Superior Court in such district may be held in any municipal or justice court building or courtroom located within such Superior Court District.
(Ord. 94-0024U § 1, 1994.)
1.16.177 - Superior court sessions at community facilities.
Notwithstanding any other ordinance provisions, in addition to those locations within each Superior Court District where sessions shall be held, sessions of the Superior Court may be held in community facilities as part of court approved programs.
(Ord. 2000-0063 § 1, 2000.)
1.16.180 - Central District—City of Los Angeles.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the Central District shall be held in the city of Los Angeles.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 3 § 41, 1959.)
1.16.190 - North Central District—Burbank and Glendale.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the North Central District shall be held in the cities of Burbank and Glendale.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 3 § 42, 1959.)
1.16.200 - Northeast District—Pasadena.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the Northeast District shall be held in the city of Pasadena.
(Ord. 7626 Art, 3 § 43, 1959.)
1.16.210 - East District—Pomona.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the East District shall be held in the city of Pomona.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 3 § 44, 1959.)
1.16.220 - Southeast District—Norwalk.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the Southeast District shall be held in the city of Norwalk.
(Ord. 8376 § 1, 1963: Ord. 7626 Art. 3 § 45, 1959.)
1.16.230 - South Central District—Compton.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the South Central District shall be held in the city of Compton.
(Ord. 9935 § 3, 1969: Ord. 7626 Art. 3 § 49.5, 1959.)
1.16.240 - South District—Long Beach.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the South District shall be held in the city of Long Beach.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 3 § 46, 1959.)
1.16.250 - Southwest District—Torrance.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the Southwest District shall be held in the city of Torrance.
(Ord. 8018 § 1, 1961: Ord. 7626 Art. 3 § 47, 1959.)
1.16.260 - West District—Santa Monica.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the West District shall be held in the city of Santa Monica.
(Ord. 7626 Art. 3 § 48, 1959.)
1.16.270 - Northwest District.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the Northwest District shall be held in the city of Los Angeles at the Van Nuys County Courts Building. Pursuant to Section 69649 of the Government Code, a session of the Superior Court may be held in the Northwest District at least once a week at the Civic Center in the unincorporated town of Lancaster.
(Ord. 9744 § 1, 1969: Ord. 9402 § 1, 1967: Ord. 7626 Art. 3 § 49, 1959.)
1.16.280 - North Valley District.
The sessions of the Superior Court in the North Valley District shall be held in the city of San Fernando.
(Ord. 83-0049 § 5, 1983.)
