Chapter 22 - COURTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— General penalty, § 1-11; alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 42; traffic and vehicles, ch. 62.
Related laws reference—Courts, art. II.
Magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.; violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; punishment for misdemeanors, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b); county responsibility for sentencing and maintenance of inmates, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-51(a).

Sec. 22-1. - County courthouse.
The Houston County Courthouse shall be located at 201 Perry Parkway, Perry, Georgia, and shall hold all the official sessions of the Superior Court of the county, including the grand jury thereof.
(Code 1976, § 9-1001; Amd. of 1-18-05)
Sec. 22-2. - Assessment of additional penalty for use in funding of county correctional facilities.
(a)
Intent. It is the intent and desire of the board of commissioners, as the governing authority of the county, to have imposed and collected by the courts in the county the additional penalties provided for in the Jail Construction and Staffing Act (O.C.G.A. § 15-21-90) and to expend the monies collected for the purposes set out in the act.
(b)
Imposition generally. In every case in which any court in the county, including any court of a municipality which has entered into the intergovernmental contract provided for in this section, shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any offense against a county or municipal ordinance, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(c)
Imposition on persons posting bail or bond. At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or a violation of a county or municipal ordinance, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any court of the county, including any court of a municipality which has entered into the intergovernmental contract provided for in this section, shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be collected.
(d)
Penalty to be additional to other assessments. The additional penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the peace officer's annuity and benefit fund and by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 to be paid into the judges of the probate courts retirement fund of the state, or by any other provision of law.
(e)
Collection, deposit and expenditure. The additional penalties prescribed in this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds. Such additional penalties shall be paid over to the board of commissioners by the tenth day of the month following the month in which these sums are collected. All such sums collected and paid over to the board of commissioners shall be deposited into a special account, which shall be known as the county jail fund. All monies collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended solely and exclusively for constructing, operating and staffing the county correctional facilities, or for such other purposes as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(f)
Imposition by municipal courts. The additional penalties provided for by this section shall not be imposed or collected in any court operated by any municipality located in the county unless the municipality and the county enter into an intergovernmental contract providing for use of the county jail, correctional institution or detention facility by municipal prisoners.
(Code 1976, § 9-1002)
