Chapter 20 - HOME OCCUPATIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.

Sec. 20-1. - Definition and standards.
The term home occupation is understood to mean any home office or home business conducted entirely within a dwelling which is carried on by an occupant thereof and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and which fully complies with the following standards:
(1)
The applicant must be the owner of the property on which the home occupation is to be located, or must have written approval of the owner of the property if the applicant is a tenant.
(2)
The home occupation shall be operated only by the members of the family residing on the premises, and no article or service shall be sold or offered for sale, except as may be produced by members of the immediate family residing on the premises.
(3)
The home occupation shall be restricted to the main building only and shall not occupy more than 25 percent of the floor area within said building.
(4)
The home occupation shall not generate excessive traffic or produce obnoxious odors, glare, noise, vibration, electrical disturbance, or radio-activity or other condition that will be a nuisance to the surrounding area.
(5)
Any business sign placed on the premises shall not be larger than two square feet in sign area, unlighted and fixed to a wall.
(6)
The home occupation and dwelling unit shall comply with all applicable building and fire codes.
(7)
The home occupation shall not involve group instruction or group assembly of people on the premises.
(8)
The portion of the residence in which the business is conducted shall be completely enclosed in a manner that the business is not visible from the surrounding property.
(9)
Outside storage of equipment or materials is prohibited if visible by adjacent homeowners.
(10)
The principal practitioner shall be permitted to park one commercial vehicle in the approved parking area. The commercial vehicle is limited to a passenger car, van or light truck of up to one-ton carrying capacity.
(Amd. of 10-5-04)
Sec. 20-2. - Administration and enforcement.
(a)
The applicant shall bear the burden of providing conclusive evidence that these conditions have been met. The zoning official and director of administration, or his designee, may administratively approve home occupation applications that meet the provisions of section 20-1. Applications not meeting the provisions of section 20-1 shall be denied. The Applicant may appeal to the board of commissioners by following the procedures outlined in Houston County's Comprehensive Land Development Regulations.
(b)
If the home occupation is approved, the applicant is responsible for the operation of the said home occupation in conformance with these conditions. Failure to abide by these conditions will result in prosecution of the applicant in the appropriate county court and revocation of the occupational tax certificate.
(Amd. of 10-5-04)
Sec. 20-3. - Expiration.
An occupational tax certificate for a home occupation shall expire under the following conditions:
(1)
Whenever the applicant ceases to occupy the premises for which the home occupation was issued, no subsequent occupant of such premises shall engage in any home occupation until he shall have been issued a new tax certificate after proper application.
(2)
Whenever the holder of such an occupational tax certificate fails to exercise the same for any period of six consecutive months.
(Amd. of 10-5-04)
