ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the 1922 act of the general assembly, as amended, which created the board of commissioners of the county. The initial history note for each section identifies the origin of each section of the original act or a section added to the original act by subsequent amendment. Section number references for all other amendatory acts have been omitted.
Code reference—Board of commissioners, § 2-36 et seq.

Sec. 1.1. - Board established.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, That from and after the passage of this Act, there shall be established a Board of County Commissioners for the County of Houston, State of Georgia.
(1922 Ga. Laws, page 372, § 1)
Sec. 1.2. - Membership; qualifications of members; election of members; term of office.
The Board of Commissioners of Houston County shall consist of five members who shall be elected thereto by the electors of the entire county. In order to be eligible for election to the board, candidates shall be qualified voters of Houston County who have resided therein at least two years prior to the date of the beginning of their term of office. For the purposes of electing members to the board, positions on the board shall be numbered as Posts 1 through 5, respectively. That position presently occupied on the board by Commissioner H. C. Talton, Jr. shall be Post No. 1. That position presently occupied by Commissioner Stewart I. Bloodworth shall be Post No. 2. That position presently occupied by Commissioner James Edward Bryant shall be Post No. 3. That position presently occupied by Commissioner Frank Rozar shall be Post No. 4. That position presently occupied by Commissioner Alton Tucker shall be Post No. 5.
Those members of the board serving at the time of the effective date of this Section shall continue to serve until the expiration of the terms of office to which they were elected. Successors to the present commissioners shall be elected in the general election which is conducted in that year in which the respective term of office shall expire, shall take office on the first day of January following their election and shall serve for a term of office of four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(1922 Ga. Laws, page 372, § 2; 1958 Ga. Laws, page 2574; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3266; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 2962)
Sec. 1.3. - Compensation of members.
(a)
Members of the Board of Commissioners of Houston County shall receive a base salary of $450.00 per month from the funds of the County. On and after January 1, 2007, members of the board of commissioners shall receive a base salary of $1,000.00 per month, plus any applicable training supplement and cost of living raise as approved by the state. On and after January 1, 1991, the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Houston County shall receive an annual salary of not less than $48,000.00, the exact amount to be determined and approved by the board of commissioners, from the funds of Houston County. In addition, each time the board of commissioners grants an increase in the salary paid from county funds to the county officers of Houston County whose offices are listed in Article IX, Section I, Paragraph III of the Constitution, upon approval by the board of commissioners, the chairman's salary shall be increased by the same amount.
(b)
The Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Houston County shall have an expense account from which funds may be withdrawn to be used in carrying out the duties of such office which shall be in addition to any other compensation provided for said chairman. The expense account shall be approved by the board of commissioners annually and shall be a part of the county budget.
(c)
A monthly contingent expense allowance for the members of the Board of Commissioners of Houston County, other than the chairman, shall be and the same is fixed in the sum of $200.00, which shall be in addition to any other compensation provided for said members other than the chairman.
(1922 Ga. Laws, page 372, § 3; 1953 Ga. Laws, page 2575; 1955 Ga. Laws, page 3217; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2169; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 3236; 1975 Ga. Laws, page 2091; 1981 Ga. Laws, page 3112; 1990 Ga. Laws, page 3510; 1991 Ga. Laws, page 3742; Amd. of 1-18-05)
Sec. 1.4. - Filling of vacancies.
All vacancies in the membership of the board of commissioners, including the chairman post, occurring in less than one year of the expiration of such term of office shall be filled by appointment of a duly qualified person by the remaining members of the board, and such appointee shall be commissioned and hold office until his successor is elected and qualified; provided, however, that if such remaining members cannot agree on an appointment within 45 days after a vacancy has been declared, the Judge of the Probate Court of Houston County shall appoint a qualified person to fill such vacancy. All vacancies in the membership of the board, including the chairman post, occurring more than one year prior to the expiration of the term of office shall be filled by a special election called by the Election Superintendent of Houston County in the same manner as in the case to fill vacancies in other county offices, and the person so elected shall be commissioned and hold office until the expiration of said unexpired term and until his successor is elected and qualified. The expense of any such special election shall be paid out of the general funds of the county.
(1922 Ga. Laws, page 372, § 4; 1958 Ga. Laws, page 2574; 1976 Ga. Laws, page 3982; 1991 Ga. Laws, page 3742)
Sec. 1.5. - Meetings; election of chairman.
(a)
The commissioners elected as provided in this Act shall meet at some public place in the City of Perry on the first Tuesday in each month and shall meet at the county building in Warner Robins on the third Tuesday in each month. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this section, on the first Tuesday in January of each year, said commissioners shall organize and choose one from their number as chairman, whose term of office shall be one year; and a chairman of said board shall be elected by said board on the first Tuesday in January of each year through December 31, 1990. The board of commissioners shall have full and complete right and power to fix the time or times for its regular meetings and may also call and set the times and places for any special meetings as said board of commissioners may within its discretion require.
(b)
Beginning with the general election in 1990 and continuing thereafter, Post 1 shall be designated the Chairman Post and the candidate elected to Post 1 from the county at large shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners. Any person appointed or elected to fill a vacancy in Post 1 after January 1, 1991, pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 of this Act shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners for the remainder of the unexpired term of office. Any duly qualified person may be appointed by the board to fill a vacancy in Post 1 pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 [1.4].
(1922 Ga. Laws, page 372, § 5; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2169; 1990 Ga. Laws, page 3510; 1991 Ga. Laws, page 3742; 1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 68))
Sec. 1.6. - Clerical staff.
The board of commissioners shall elect a clerk or secretary whose duty it shall be to keep in well-bound books complete records of all the proceedings of the board of commissioners and to do and perform all of the duties and services usual and incident to the position of clerk or secretary of such a board. Said clerk or secretary shall be elected to serve at the pleasure of the board, and he shall be paid a salary commensurate with the duties and requirements of his office, in an amount to be in the discretion of the board of commissioners and payable monthly. The board of commissioners shall elect any other clerical or secretarial help as it shall deem necessary. Such clerical or secretarial help shall be elected to serve at the pleasure of the board and shall be paid a salary commensurate with the duties and requirements of their employment, in an amount to be in the discretion of the board of commissioners and payable monthly.
(1922 Ga. Laws, page 372, § 6; 1958 Ga. Laws, page 2574; 1960 Ga. Laws, page 2584; 1990 Ga. Laws, page 3510)
Sec. 1.7. - Powers and duties generally.
The board of commissioners of Houston County is authorized to enact ordinances, rules, resolutions, and regulations implementing the powers granted by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia to the governing authorities of the various counties in the State of Georgia. In addition, the board shall have the following powers and duties:
(1)
To cause the Code of Ordinances of Houston County to be updated at least annually;
(2)
To maintain, or cause to be maintained, an accurate accounting of all financial affairs of the county and to publish a report annually in a newspaper of general circulation located in the City of Perry and a newspaper of general circulation located in the City of Warner Robins;
(3)
To inspect roads, bridges, buildings, or other public works of the county;
(4)
To prepare annually and cause to be filed in the permanent records of the county an inventory of all county property, both real and personal, which inventory shall show the amount of insurance coverage provided for each building, vehicle, or other item of county property; and
(5)
To undertake and transact such other business as is necessary for the orderly conduct of county affairs.
(1922 Ga. Laws, page 372, § 7; 1958 Ga. Laws, page 2574; 1990 Ga. Laws, page 3510)
Sec. 1.8. - Powers and duties of chairman.
(a)
The office of chairman shall be a full-time position and a person serving as chairman shall not perform any other job or occupation during such tenure as chairman. The chairman of the board shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the board but shall not vote unless the board is equally divided, in which event the chairman shall vote and that vote shall be counted the same as the vote of any other member of the board;
(2)
Appoint members and chairmen of all committees of the board;
(3)
Be recognized as the official head of Houston County by state, federal, and other authorities for military and ceremonial functions;
(4)
Veto, approve, or fail to approve resolutions of the board as provided in subsection (b) of this section;
(5)
Be the chief executive officer of Houston County with authority and responsibility to implement the actions of the board and generally to supervise, direct, control, and provide for the administration of the affairs of Houston County;
(6)
Appoint and remove all officers and employees of the county, subject to confirmation by the board and consistent with any personnel policies adopted by the board, except the county attorney, clerk or secretary, or other clerical help appointed pursuant to Section 6[1.6], and the outside auditor who shall be appointed and removed by the board of commissioners;
(7)
See that all laws and ordinances of the county are enforced;
(8)
Exercise control over all departments or divisions of the county which the board has heretofore exercised or that may hereafter be created;
(9)
Prepare and submit to the board of commissioners an annual budget;
(10)
Keep the board of commissioners fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of said county;
(11)
Supervise and direct the official conduct of all county officers and department heads appointed by the chairman;
(12)
Provide for the salaries or compensation of all county officers and employees, subject to confirmation by the board and consistent with any personnel policies adopted by the board;
(13)
Maintain offices in the City of Perry and the City of Warner Robins and spend sufficient time in each office to carry out the duties of such office of chairmanship in both areas of the county; and
(14)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the board.
(b)
Every official act of the board having the force and effect of law shall be by resolution of the board. Any such resolution adopted or approved by the board shall be submitted to the chairman thereof within two calendar days following its adoption or approval. The chairman shall approve or veto the resolution within eight calendar days after adoption or approval, and no resolution shall become effective without the chairman's approval except as provided in this subsection. If the chairman vetoes a resolution, the chairman shall within two business days of such veto return it to the board accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for that veto. If the board shall pass the resolution by a vote of three of its members at the meeting next held after the resolution has been returned with the chairman's veto, it shall become law without the chairman's approval. In the event the chairman does not approve or veto the resolution within the time required, it shall become law without the chairman's approval. The chairman may veto any item or items of any resolution making appropriations; the part or parts of any resolution making an appropriation not vetoed shall become law, and the part or parts vetoed shall not become law unless passed by the board over the chairman's veto as provided in this subsection with respect to the passage of a vetoed resolution.
(c)
[Purchasing; signing of payroll checks; supervision of work on roads and bridges.]
(1)
The chairman of the board shall be the chief purchasing agent for the county, by whom all purchases or supplies and all contracts therefor shall be made. He shall sign checks and all vouchers for the payment of the same under such rules and regulations as the board may adopt, not inconsistent with this subsection. The board shall adopt rules for regulating purchases made by the county and the chairman shall be governed thereby. In no event shall the chairman be authorized to spend in excess of $2,500.00 for the purchase of any item for use by the county without the prior consent of a majority of the duly qualified members of the board.
(2)
The chairman of the board is further vested with the authority to sign all payroll checks for the employees of Houston County.
(3)
The chairman shall be directly responsible for the construction and maintenance of all roads and bridges under the jurisdiction of Houston County. He shall appoint a superintendent of roads and bridges whose primary duty shall be to supervise the construction and maintenance of all county roads and bridges. A complete written record shall be kept of the requisitions made by the chairman or superintendent of roads and bridges for all supplies and equipment for the maintenance of the public works forces and the carrying out of the work under the supervision of said superintendent.
(1990 Ga. Laws, page 3510, § 7A)
Sec. 1.9. - Jurisdiction.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the said Board of County Commissioners shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the business of the county covering within the scope and purview of their authority, having exclusive jurisdiction and control over the following matters, to-wit: In directing and controlling all of the property of said county, as they may deem expedient, according to law; in levying taxes, according to law; in establishing and abolishing roads and bridges, according to law; in abolishing, changing, or establishing election precincts and militia districts according to law; in supervising the books of the tax receiver and tax collector; in settling the claims and accounts of officers having the care, management, or disbursement of funds belonging to, or appropriated for the use and benefit of said county, and bringing them to a settlement; in providing for the poor of the county, and in preserving and safe-guarding the health of the county; in regulating license fees as provided by law; in establishing and maintaining the county chain-gang; in appointing and discharging all minor officers and employees of said county whose election is not otherwise provided for by law; in providing for a uniform system of collecting the commutation road tax, the amount to be paid, or the number of days work on the roads of said county in lieu thereof; in levying and collecting the tax for roads as provided by law; in fixing the time when the commutation tax shall be paid or the work in lieu thereof performed; in trying all road defaulters according to law; and generally to have and exercise all of the powers ordinarily vested in the ordinary when sitting for county purposes, and to exercise all other powers and discharge all other duties fixed and granted by law; and all others as may be incident or indispensable to the jurisdiction of said Board of County Commissioners over county matters.
(1922 Ga. Laws, page 372, § 8)
Sec. 1.10. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year for Houston County shall commence on the 1st day of July each year and extend through the 30th day of June in the following year.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2970, § 8A)
Sec. 1.11. - Appointment of members of hospital authority.
Pursuant to the authority granted by Code section 88-1803 [O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72], relating to the creation of hospital authorities, as amended, after the effective date of this Act, the Board of Commissioners of Houston County by resolution shall fill all vacancies occurring in the membership of the Hospital Authority of Houston County.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2601, § 8B)
Sec. 1.12. - Redevelopment powers.
The county shall have and be authorized to exercise all redevelopment and other powers authorized or granted counties pursuant to the "Redevelopment Powers Law," as now or hereafter amended, provided for by Chapter 44 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-44-1 et seq.]. These powers shall include, without being limited to, all redevelopment powers, the power to issue tax allocation bonds and incur other obligations without such bonds or obligations constituting debt within the meaning of Article IX, Section V of the Constitution, and the power to enter into contracts with private persons, firms, corporations, and business entities for the period specified in the "Redevelopment Powers Law."
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 3901, § 8C)
Sec. 1.13. - Exemption of members and certain employees from jury duty.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the members of the said Board of County Commissioners, the clerk or the secretary thereof, and the superintendent of roads and bridges provided for in this Act shall be exempt from jury duty during their term of office.
(1922 Ga. Laws, page 372, § 9)
