ARTICLE IV. - COUNTY OFFICIALS
DIVISION 1. - TAX COMMISSIONER[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Consolidation of office of tax receiver and tax collector into office of tax commissioner, compensation of tax commissioner, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 1, par. 3; salaries of tax collectors and tax commissioners, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183.

Sec. 4.1. - Office created.
The offices of tax receiver and tax collector of Houston County are hereby abolished and consolidated into the office of tax commissioner of Houston County.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2587, § 1)
Sec. 4.2. - Powers and duties.
The rights, duties, and liabilities of said office of tax commissioner shall be the same as those imposed upon tax receivers and collectors by the laws of this state.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2587, § 2)
Sec. 4.3. - Election; term of office; vacancy in office.
The first election for the office of tax commissioner created herein shall be held at the same time as the election for other county officers in Houston County is held in 1960, and the person so elected shall take office on January 1, 1961, for a term of four (4) years and until his successor is elected and qualified. Likewise, all future elections for tax commissioner shall be held at the same time as the election for other county officers; and all future tax commissioners shall likewise have a term of office for four (4) years and until his successors are elected and qualified. Through December 31, 1960, the tax receiver and collector of Houston County shall continue in office. In the event any vacancy should occur in the office of tax commissioner, the vacancy shall be filled by a special election called by the judge of the probate court of Houston County. Said election shall be held within 30 days after the vacancy occurs in said office.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2587, § 3)
Sec. 4.4. - Payment of taxes due at time of taking office.
All taxes due and payable at the time the tax commissioner takes office shall continue to be due and payable until paid. All tax fi. fa. theretofore issued shall have full force and effect and be collectible as issued.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2587, § 4)
Sec. 4.5. - Office space.
The tax commissioner shall be furnished an office in Houston County Courthouse and shall keep said office open for the transaction of business as do other county officers.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2587, § 6)
Sec. 4.6. - Oath; bond.
The tax commissioner, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall take the oath prescribed by law for tax collector and shall give bond as provided by law for the tax collector. The premium costs for said bond shall be paid by the county.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2587, § 7)
Sec. 4.7. - Personnel; recommendation of budget.
The tax commissioner shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to discharge efficiently and effectively the official duties of his office. The tax commissioner shall at least 90 days before the first day of July of each year, beginning with July, 1965, recommend to the governing authority of Houston County the number of such personnel needed by his office, together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee, and a proposed budget covering the costs of operating said office for the next ensuing year. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the tax commissioner, during his respective term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2813, § 3; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 2448, § 1)
Sec. 4.8. - Collection and remittance of funds; financial records.
All fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, emoluments, and perquisites of whatever nature provided by law for services rendered by the tax commissioner, except as hereinafter provided, shall be charged and collected by said officer and shall be held by him as county funds. On or before the 15th day of each month, the tax commissioner shall pay over to the fiscal authority of Houston County, all such funds as shall have been collected by him for the county during the immediately preceding calendar month. The tax commissioner shall keep such books and records as shall be prescribed by the governing authority of Houston County and all such records shall be open to the inspection of the public, the governing authority of Houston County and their auditors at all times during the hours for which said office is open for business.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2813, § 5)
Sec. 4.9. - Collection of funds due as of effective date of act.
All fees, costs, fines, forfeitures, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, monies, payments into retirement system and all other emoluments which have accrued to the tax commissioner at the time this act becomes effective and to which said officer is entitled and which remain uncollected at the time this act becomes effective, shall when collected be paid to said officer. He shall, however, report the collection of any such fees to the governing authority of the county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2813, § 7)
Secs. 4.10—4.30. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SHERIFF

Sec. 4.31. - Personnel; recommendation of budget.
The sheriff shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to discharge efficiently and effectively the official duties of his office. The sheriff shall at least 90 days before the first day of July of each year, beginning with July, 1965, recommend to the governing authority of Houston County the number of such personnel needed by his office, together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee, and a proposed budget covering the costs of operating said office for the next ensuing year. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the sheriff, during his respective term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2819, § 3; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 2443)
Sec. 4.32. - Collection and remittance of funds; financial records.
All fees, fines, forfeitures, costs, commissions, emoluments, and perquisites of whatever nature provided by law for services rendered by the sheriff shall be charged and collected by said officer and shall be held by him as county funds. On or before the 15th day of each month, the sheriff shall pay over to the fiscal authority of Houston County, all such funds as shall have been collected by him for the county during the immediately preceding calendar month. The sheriff shall keep such books and records as shall be prescribed by the governing authority of Houston County and all such records shall be open to the inspection of the public, the governing authority of Houston County and their auditors at all times during the hours for which said office is open for business.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2819, § 5)
Sec. 4.33. - Collection of funds due as of effective date of act.
All fees, costs, fines, forfeitures, commissions, allowances, penalties, funds, monies, payments into retirement system and all other emoluments which have accrued to the sheriff at the time this act becomes effective and to which said officer is entitled and which remain uncollected at the time this act becomes effective, shall when collected be paid to such officer. He shall, however, report the collection of any such fees to the governing authority of the county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 2819, § 6)
Secs. 4.34—4.50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CORONER

Sec. 4.51. - Basis of compensation.
The present mode of compensating the coroner of Houston County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such office is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
(1966 Ga. Laws, page 2638, § 1)
Sec. 4.52. - Collection and remittance of funds.
Said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as a compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the coroner shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
(1966 Ga. Laws, page 2638, § 3)
Sec. 4.53. - Payment of operating expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of the coroner's office shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities and equipment, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Houston County.
(1966 Ga. Laws, page 2638, § 4)
