Chapter 12 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-80 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Disaster means any natural, technological, or civil emergency, or threat thereof, that causes or has the potential to cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in a declaration of a state of emergency declared by a county, the governor or the President of the United States.
Emergency means any natural or manmade event requiring the activation of the local emergency operations plan.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services (public safety); medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; (nuclear power) plant protection; temporary restoration of public service utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Local emergency management director means the person nominated by the local government, and appointed by the state emergency management director, to implement the local emergency operations plan.
State emergency management director means the person appointed by the governor to head the state emergency management agency.
(Code 1992, § 12-26; Ord. of 2-2-2009, § I)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 12-20. - Local organization for emergency management.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the county emergency management agency. The executive officer or county board of commissioners, with the concurrence of officials of the cities within the county, shall nominate, for appointment by the state emergency management director, a director of the county emergency management agency. Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the executive officer or county board of commissioners, and shall serve at the pleasure of such executive officer or county board of commissioners. When appointed, the local emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist local officials in organizing county departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county emergency operations plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities within the county for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports, to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governmental officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activities, etc.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating staff during periods of emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Code 1992, § 12-27; Ord. of 2-2-2009, § II)
State Law reference— Local organization for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 12-21. - County emergency management agency.
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan. Heads of county departments listed in the county emergency management operations plan are responsible for developing appropriate annexes and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to the emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes and/or SOPs will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Code 1992, § 12-28; Ord. of 2-2-2009, § III)
State Law reference— Local organization for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 12-22. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairperson or county administrator, in concurrence with the county commissioners separately or jointly with the mayors of Jesup, Odum and Screven, or, in their absence, their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise, for such periods as such emergency or disaster continues, the following powers:
(1)
To appropriate and expend funds, execute contracts, and to obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes;
(2)
To provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance, to the victims of any emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes or enemy attack, and to direct and coordinate the development of emergency management plans and programs in accordance with the policies and plans set by the federal and state emergency management agencies;
(3)
To appoint, employ, remove, or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers;
(4)
To establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts during an emergency or disaster;
(5)
Subject to the order of the governor or the chief executive of the political subdivision, to assign and make available for duty the employees, property, or equipment of the subdivision relating to firefighting, engineering, rescue, health, medical and related services, and to police, transportation, construction, and similar items or services for emergency management purposes, within or outside of the physical limits of the subdivision;
(6)
In addition to the heretofore-stated powers and authorities, to acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease, or otherwise, sites required for installation of temporary housing units for disaster victims; and to enter into whatever arrangements, including purchase of temporary housing units and payment of transportation charges which are necessary to prepare or equip such sites to utilize the housing units.
(Code 1992, § 12-29; Ord. of 2-2-2009, § IV)
State Law reference— Local emergency management orders, rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 12-23. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees. Immunity does not apply in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith.
(Code 1992, § 12-30; Ord. of 2-2-2009, § V)
State Law reference— Immunity, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-35.
Sec. 12-24. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as having committed a misdemeanor.
(Code 1992, § 12-31; Ord. of 2-2-2009, § VI)
Secs. 12-25—12-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STATE OF EMERGENCY REGULATIONS

Sec. 12-52. - Suspension of portions of the Code.
(a)
Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(1)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the county, all actions taken by the board of commissioners shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the board of commissioners without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(2)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners or county administrator of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, county administrator or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(3)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners or county administrator of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, county administrator or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of this Code, or any portion thereof, where:
a.
The emergency or disaster is of such a nature that immediate action outside the Code is required;
b.
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
c.
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(4)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners or county administrator of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, county administrator or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(5)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners or county administrator of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, county administrator or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired, provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and the county building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period of an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fee means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and cleanup of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fee" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
State of emergency, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster emergency. The subsequent recovery period shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated, unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a particular zoning district.
(Code 1992, § 12-51; Ord. of 3-3-2008(1), §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 12-53. - Imposition of curfews.
(a)
Institution of curfew.
(1)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners or county administrator of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, county administrator or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the county.
(2)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(3)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal of any person not otherwise exempt from this section appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals, unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, includes those individuals engaged in the provision of designated essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, and utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, and building and repair contractors, properly registered according to county Ordinance Number R-494, adopted March 3, 2008 (an ordinance to require registration of building and repair services during a state of emergency), performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(c)
Prohibition. It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of the unincorporated county during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Code 1992, § 12-52; Ord. of 3-3-2008(2), §§ 1—4)
Sec. 12-54. - Overcharging for goods, materials, services and housing.
(a)
Overcharging prohibited. In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges, or in applicable cases, substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing.
State of emergency is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the county board of commissioners.
(Code 1992, § 12-53; Ord. of 3-3-2008(3), §§ 1—3)
Sec. 12-55. - Registration of building and repair services.
(a)
Building contractor registration required. No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of the county, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto, without having registered the name of the business with the county board of commissioners and having paid fees as provided by this section.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor, as used in this section, means any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business. Any building contractor shall be deemed as "doing business" subject to the requirements of this section if:
(1)
He has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or
(2)
He performs the following activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed three months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(c)
Registration fees. Annual building contractor registration fees are hereby fixed under the terms and conditions of this section in the amount determined from time to time by the board of commissioners. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(d)
Transferability. Each certification issued under this article is granted to and shall be accepted by the building contractor under the condition that the same is not transferable, and after issuance, no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(e)
Display of registration certification. Each certification issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or in a vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(f)
Revocation; suspension. Each certification granted under this ordinance is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as said business is conducted in a lawful manner. The county board of commissioners hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted hereunder, if the building contractor or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment violates this section or any other county, state or federal law. If, after issuance of a certification, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(g)
Exemption from section. All building contractors holding a valid and current business license with the county shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Code 1992, § 12-54; Ord. of 3-3-2008(4), §§ 1—9)
