Chapter 24 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 24-1. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in fighting, disorderly or riotous conduct within the limits of the county. It shall be unlawful for any person to be a disorderly person. For the purposes of this section, the term "disorderly conduct" is defined as follows:
(1)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear for safety of his life, limb or health;
(2)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Any person shall endanger the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry threats and abusive conduct;
(4)
Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another;
(5)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose of causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl;
(6)
Any person who shall be found jostling or roughly crowding or pushing any person in any public place;
(7)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose or with the intent to engage in gaming;
(8)
Any person who shall frequent any public place with intent to obtain money from other persons by illegal and fraudulent schemes, tricks, artifices or devices;
(9)
Any person who assembles for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick, to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person in the county, or who shall aid or abet therein;
(10)
Any person who shall accost or attempt to force his company upon any other person;
(11)
Any person who utters in the presence of another any bawdy, lewd or obscene words or epithets reasonably foreseeable to provoke an immediate breach of the peace;
(12)
Any person who frequents any place where gaming or illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or tolerated;
(13)
Any person who shall use fighting words directed towards any person who becomes outraged and thus creates a turmoil;
(14)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate for the purpose of trouncing upon another;
(15)
Any person who shall, by acts of violence, interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation; or
(16)
Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered by the sheriff or other lawful authority.
(Code 1992, § 23-1; Ord. of 1-5-1995(1), § 1)
Sec. 24-2. - Wearing pants below the waist in public.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in public wearing pants below the waist, which expose the skin or undergarments. For purposes of this section, the term "public" means any property, public or private, lying within the incorporated limits of the county and all county property, wherever located in the county.
(b)
Any person violating subsection (a) of this section shall be given an oral warning and thereafter be cited by any law enforcement officer, by the issuance of a citation and summons to appear before the magistrate court of the county.
(c)
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.00, plus up to eight hours' community service on the public streets, roads or property of the county.
(Code 1992, § 23-2; Ord. of 9-8-2008)
Secs. 24-3—24-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SHOOTING RANGES

Sec. 24-23. - Purpose.
This article is intended to regulate the establishment and operation of outdoor shooting range facilities. Such recreational and training complexes, due to their potential noise impacts and safety concerns, merit careful review to minimize adverse effects on adjoining properties. This chapter does not otherwise apply to the general discharge of firearms or the use of bows and arrows in accordance with all other applicable laws or regulations.
(Code 1992, § 27-1; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-24. - Intent.
It is the intent of this article to accomplish the following:
(1)
Permitting, registration, and compliance. New shooting range facilities shall only be established and operated in accordance with a valid permit issued by the county.
(2)
Shot containment. Each shooting range facility shall be designed to contain the bullets, shot, or arrows on the range facility.
(3)
Noise mitigation. Each shooting range facility shall be designed to minimize off-site noise impacts generated by the activities conducted on the range facility.
(Code 1992, § 27-2; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-25. - Authority.
This article is adopted under the authority of the Official Code of the State of Georgia.
(Code 1992, § 27-3; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Archery means the art, sport, or skill of shooting with a bow and arrow.
dBA means the sound pressure level, in decibels, as measured using the impulse mode and A-weighting network on a precision sound level meter.
Firearm means a weapon, including a pistol, rifle, and shotgun, capable of firing a projectile, using an explosive charge as a propellant.
Firing line means a line parallel to a target from which firearms or arrows are discharged.
Safety fan means an area on a shooting range facility designed to contain all projectiles fired from a shooting range.
Shooting range means an area designed and improved to encompass shooting stations or firing lines, target areas, berms and baffles, and other related components.
Shooting range facility means a public or private facility, including individual shooting ranges, safety fans or shot fall zones, structures, parking areas, and other associated improvements, designed for the purpose of providing a place for the discharge of various types of firearms or the practice of archery. The term "shooting range facility" does not include incidental target practice areas on private property.
Shooting station means a fixed point from which firearms or arrows are discharged.
Shot fall zone means an area within which the shot or pellets contained in a shotgun shell typically fall.
Structure means a walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a manufactured or mobile home, a storage tank for gases or liquids, or any other permanent, manmade facilities.
(Code 1992, § 27-4; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-27. - Applicability.
This article is applicable to all new shooting ranges in the unincorporated county outside of any municipal jurisdiction which are established after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(Code 1992, § 27-5; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-28. - Performance standards.
The following performance standards shall apply to all shooting range facilities:
(1)
Shot containment. Shooting range facilities shall be designed to contain all of the bullets, shot, or arrows or any other debris on the range facility.
(2)
Noise mitigation. Noise levels measured at the property line where the facility is maintained, or, in the case of leased land, at the property line of any leased parcel, shall not exceed 65 dBA when located adjacent to residential or commercial property, or 75 dBA when adjacent to industrial property.
(3)
Written variance. These performance measures may be varied with written permission of adjoining property owners affected thereby, except that written approval is not needed for any adjoining land owned by the state.
(Code 1992, § 27-6; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-29. - Development requirements.
(a)
Setbacks. Notwithstanding the performance standards of section 24-28, all shooting stations on a range facility shall be located a minimum of 200 feet from any property line.
(b)
Warning signs. Warning signs meeting National Rifle Association (NRA) guidelines for shooting ranges shall be posted at 100-foot intervals along the entire perimeter of the shooting range facility.
(c)
Distance from occupied dwelling. All shooting stations shall be located at least one-fourth of a mile (1,320 feet) from any existing, occupied dwelling.
(d)
Written variance. The distance requirements of this section may be varied with written permission of adjoining property owners affected thereby, except that written approval is not needed for any adjoining land owned by the state.
(Code 1992, § 27-7; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-30. - Operational requirements.
(a)
Hours of operation. Shooting ranges shall be allowed to operate between sunrise and sunset, except that the hours may be extended after sunset for purposes of subdued-lighting certification of law enforcement officers, or may be extended for other purposes only when a permit allowing such activity is issued in advance by the sheriff's department. On Sundays, shooting shall not commence before 12:30 p.m., unless a permit allowing such activity is issued in advance by the sheriff's department.
(b)
Liability insurance. The permittee shall be required to carry a minimum of $500,000.00 of liability insurance. Such insurance shall name the county as an additional insured party and shall save and hold the county, its elected and appointed officials, and employees acting within the scope of their duties harmless from and against all claims, demands, and causes of action of any kind or character, including the cost of defense thereof, arising in favor of a person or group's members or employees or third parties on account of any property damage arising out of the acts or omissions of the permittee, his group, club, or its agents or representatives. The county shall be notified of any policy changes or lapses in coverage.
(Code 1992, § 27-8; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-31. - Procedure for securing approval for new ranges.
(a)
Permit application. An application for a permit to establish and operate a shooting range facility shall be submitted by the legal property owner or owner's agent to the county building inspection department. Such permit shall be secured prior to issuance of any other building or improvement permit by the county.
(b)
Fees. The application shall be accompanied by an application fee of $100.00.
(c)
Required information. The applicant shall provide sufficient information as required by these provisions in order for the county commissioners to properly evaluate the permit application. In addition, copies of any written agreements from the adjoining property owners and a letter from the insurance company to provide liability insurance shall accompany the permit application.
(d)
Site plan. A site plan for the entire range facility which shows the following applicable information, drawn to an appropriate scale, shall accompany the permit application:
(1)
Property lines for any parcel upon which the range facility is to be located, a north arrow, a plan scale, the date, and ownership information for the site;
(2)
Complete layout of each range, including shooting stations or firing lines, target areas, shot fall zones or safety fans, backstops, berms, and baffles;
(3)
Projected noise contours;
(4)
Existing and proposed structures; occupied dwellings within one-fourth of a mile (1,320 feet); roads, streets, or other access areas; buffer areas; and parking areas for the range facility; and
(5)
Any other appropriate information related to the specific type of range being proposed.
(e)
Action. Within 30 working days or at the next available meeting, whichever is sooner, the county commissioners shall take one of the following actions:
(1)
Reject the application as incomplete;
(2)
Approve the issuance of the permit; or
(3)
Deny the permit request.
(f)
Permit display. Permits shall be kept and displayed in a readily visible location on the shooting range facility and at all times be available for public inspection.
(g)
Permit transferability. A permit issued pursuant to this article may not be transferred to another operator without the written approval and consent of the county building inspection department.
(h)
Changes or expansions. If any shooting range facility is intended to be substantially changed or expanded to include types of ranges, operations, or activities not covered by an approved permit or otherwise cause nonconformance with this article, a new permit for the entire facility shall be secured in accordance with all of the provisions of this article.
(Code 1992, § 27-9; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-32. - Abandonment and discontinuance of existing ranges.
When an existing shooting range is discontinued without the intent to reinstate the range use, the property owner shall notify the county of such intent.
(Code 1992, § 27-10; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-33. - Variances.
A variance may be granted by the board of commissioners upon the finding that a practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship would result if this article were strictly applied.
(Code 1992, § 27-11; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
Sec. 24-34. - Enforcement, remedies, and penalties.
(a)
Enforcement and remedies. The county sheriff's department shall be responsible for the enforcement of this article. Any violation or attempted violation of this article or of any condition or requirement adopted pursuant to these provisions may be restrained, corrected, or abated, as the case may be, by injunction or other appropriate proceedings as allowed by state law. Any permit issued under this article may be suspended or revoked.
(b)
Civil penalties. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to a penalty of $100.00 per violation. No penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in violation has been notified of the violation. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation.
(c)
Criminal penalties. Any person who knowingly or willfully violates this article or who knowingly or willfully initiates or continues unapproved actions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1992, § 27-12; Ord. of 7-1-2013)
