ARTICLE VI. - SENIOR CITIZEN HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FROM SCHOOL DISTRICT TAXES[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 2001 Ga. Laws, page 3705. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. The title of the Act has been omitted. Catchlines have been editorially supplied. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used.

Sec. 1. - Definitions.
For purposes of this Act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for educational purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for educational purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of the Wayne County school district, including, but not limited to, taxes to retire school bond indebtedness.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in Code section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A. [(O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40).]
(3)
"Senior citizen" means a person who is 65 years of age or over on or before January 1 of the year in which application for the exemption under this Act is made.
Sec. 2. - Tax exemption granted.
(a)
Each resident of the Wayne County school district who is a senior citizen is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Wayne County school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes for the full value of that homestead.
(b)
A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection (a) of this section unless the person or person's agent files an affidavit with the tax commissioner of Wayne County giving the person's age and such additional information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such person is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the applicant for the exemption.
Sec. 3. - Claiming of exemption.
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. [(O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1).] The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the applicant occupies the residence as a homestead. After a person has filed the proper affidavit as provided in subsection (b) of section 2 of this Act, it shall not be necessary to make application and file such affidavit thereafter for any year and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Act to notify the tax commissioner of Wayne County or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
Sec. 4. - Inapplicable to other taxes.
(a)
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect any state taxes, municipal taxes, or county taxes for county purposes.
(b)
The exemption granted by this Act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from Wayne County school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes.
Sec. 5. - When exemption effective.
The exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2003.
Sec. 6. - Referendum.
Unless prohibited by the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, the election superintendent of Wayne County shall call and conduct an election as provided in this section for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of the Wayne County school district for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall conduct that election on the date of the statewide general election in November, 2002, and shall issue the call and conduct that election as provided by general law. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Wayne County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
Shall the Act be approved which provides a homestead exemption from all Wayne County school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes for that school district for the full value of homesteads for residents of that school district who are 65 years of age or older? NO ( )
All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, then sections 1 through 5 of this Act shall become of full force and effect on January 1, 2003, and shall be applicable to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2003. If sections 1 through 5 of this Act are not so approved or if the election is not conducted as provided in this section, sections 1 through 5 of this Act shall not become effective and this Act shall be automatically repealed on the first day of January immediately following that election date.
The expense of such election shall be borne by Wayne County. It shall be the superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
Sec. 7. - Effective date.
Except as otherwise specified in section 6 of this Act, this Act shall become effective upon its approval by the governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Sec. 8. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
