ARTICLE III. - WAYNE COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1964 Ga. Laws, page 1002, which provision added a new paragraph at the end of Ga. Const. art. V, § IX. It was specifically continued in force and effect as part of the state constitution by 1987 Ga. Laws, page 3805. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. The title of the amendment has been omitted. Other additions for clarity are indicated by brackets.

[Sec. 1. - Created; membership; etc.]
A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Wayne County, Georgia, to be known as the Wayne County Industrial Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Wayne County and a public corporation, and which, in this amendment, is hereafter referred to as the "authority."
B.
The authority shall consist of a board of seven directors. The initial directors and their terms of office shall be as follows: Logan Dent, H. Lindsay Grace and John D. Mattox shall serve as directors for a term of six years; Olin Harper and C.M. Knight shall serve as directors for a term of four years; and Ernest Knight and A.N. Rogers shall serve as directors for a term of two years. Thereafter, the terms of all directors shall be for a period of six years, and the directors herein named who serve an initial term, as above stated, shall be eligible for re-appointment at the expiration of their original terms of office. The board of commissioners of roads and revenue of Wayne County shall appoint all subsequent directors to membership on the authority. All vacancies occurring on the authority shall be filled by the board of commissioners of roads and revenue of Wayne County for the unexpired term of the director who has vacated his office.
A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum, and a majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
C.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Wayne County.
D.
The powers of the authority shall include, but in no way be limited to, the powers as hereinafter set out:
(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(2)
To borrow money; to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates; to execute trust agreements or indentures; and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations, except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority; and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Wayne County, so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end, to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Wayne County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than 30 years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter;
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority, as herein stated.
E.
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Wayne County.
F.
The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the authority, but shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
G.
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing [a] rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the authority in all respects, in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761), as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. chapter 87 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.], as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued, as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of Wayne County to pay any such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of Wayne County.
H.
The authority may authorize additional bonds for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
I.
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued hereunder, [un]less the authority will have found and declared that:
(1)
The undertaking for which the bonds are to be issued will increase employment in Wayne County.
(2)
The lessee or purchaser of the building or buildings involved will not, by virtue of establishing operations in said county, reduce the number of employees employed by said lessee or purchaser elsewhere in the State of Georgia.
J.
No moneys derived by the authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms, or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment or other promotional expenses.
K.
Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Wayne County, subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
L.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Wayne County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
M.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor, and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within 30 days after such proclamation.
N.
The general assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of Wayne County, and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said county. The general assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits.
(2006 Ga. Laws, page 3995, § 1; 2010 Ga. Laws, page 3809, § 1)
