ARTICLE 4. - ZONING DISTRICTS

Section 401. - R-1, Low-Density Residential District.
401-1 Purpose and intent. The R-1 district is intended to provide land areas primarily devoted to a range of single-family dwelling types, reflecting much of the existing residential neighborhoods in the city. The R-1 district establishes a density of four dwelling units per gross acre. The R-1 district is applied to parcels to accommodate existing residential units on land having a predominantly single family detached unit subdivision character and associated uses which are anticipated to maintain such character; to accommodate traditional single family detached residential neighborhoods; and to accommodate revitalization and/or infill of such neighborhoods with residential products of comparable type and density. The district generally corresponds to the 2030 Comprehensive Plan Character Area designation of "Established Residential."
401-2 Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Article 6, "Use and Supplemental Conditions Tables." In cases where a use is permitted but there are specific use regulations for that use specified in Article 7, such regulations shall also apply and must be complied with.
401-3 Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 4.1, "Dimensional Requirements for Residential Zoning Districts."
401-4 Design principles and guidelines. Design criteria to be applied in this zoning district shall be as provided in Table 4.2, "Design Criteria for Residential Zoning Districts."
Section 402. - R-2, Medium-Density Residential District.
402-1 Purpose and intent. The R-2 district is intended to provide land areas devoted to moderate density uses consisting primarily of detached single-family uses. Attached single-family dwellings townhomes, duplexes, clustered and cottage housing types and other creative, flexible small lot development designs, and multi-family residential uses may be appropriate where similar uses or densities exist or adjacent to higher density districts. Land areas zoned R-2 are also intended to provide a transition between lower density single-family residential districts and: the MU District; higher density multi-family, and commercial business uses within the U.S. 29 Corridor Overlay, and other non-residential areas. The R-2 district is to be located where there is convenient access to collector streets, major thoroughfares, and the state/interstate highway system. The district generally corresponds to the 2019 Comprehensive Plan Character Area designation of "Established Residential", with portions which may be contained within the U.S. 29 Corridor Overlay.
402-2 Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Article 6, "Use and Supplemental Conditions Tables." In cases where a use is permitted but there are specific use regulations for that use specified in Article 7, such regulations shall also apply and must be complied with.
402-3 Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 4.1, "Dimensional Requirements for Residential Zoning Districts."
402-4 Design principles and guidelines. Design criteria to be applied in this zoning district shall be as provided in Table 4.2, "Design Criteria for Residential Zoning Districts."
EXPAND
Table 4.1
Dimensional Requirements for Residential Zoning Districts
N/P = Not Permitted
Dimensional Requirement R-1 R-2
Residential Density, and Lot Size and Width Requirements
Minimum lot size, detached single-family dwelling (square feet) 9,000 5,000
Minimum lot size, cottage home (square feet) N/P 3,000
Minimum lot size, fee-simple townhouse dwelling unit (square feet) N/P 2,000
Minimum lot size, multi-family dwelling (square feet) N/P 10,000
Minimum lot width, detached single-family dwelling (feet) 80 50
Minimum lot width, cottage home dwelling (feet) N/P 50
Minimum lot width, fee-simple townhouse dwelling (feet) N/P 20
Minimum lot width, multi-family dwelling (feet) N/P 100
Minimum lot depth, all uses (feet) 120 100
Maximum gross density for permitted uses 4 dwelling units 8 dwelling units per acre
Building and Site Requirements
Minimum heated floor area per dwelling unit (square feet) 1,400 800 (multi-family) 1,000 (cottage home) 1,400 (all other dwelling types)
Building Height Requirements
Maximum height (feet) 40 40
Buffers (Min. feet)
Abutting an R-1 zoned property 0 0, detached single-family dwellings in R-2 zoned property
20, all other allowed dwelling types
Building Setbacks (Min.), Dwelling or Other Permitted Principal Building
Front, local street (feet from R/W) 30 15
Front, collector/state road (feet from R/W) 50 50
Side (feet) 5 5
Side, collector/state road (feet from R/W) 30 20
Side, distance between townhouse buildings (feet) N/P 20, side setback from each end unit
Rear (feet) 30 20
Open Space (Min.) See Sec. 5.9 of Development Regulations
Building Setbacks (Min.), Accessory Buildings and Structures
Side (feet) 5 5
Rear (feet) 5 5
  EXPAND
Table 4.2
Design Criteria for Residential Zoning Districts
A = Applicable
N/A = Not Applicable
Design Criterion R-1 R-2 MU
Compatibility. New development and improvements to existing properties need to be compatible with the existing character. A A A
Floodways and Floodplains. Prohibit development within floodways and restrict or prohibit development in flood plains. A A A
Access to Abutting Public Conservation Lands. Subdivisions are strongly encouraged, if not required, to provide pedestrian easements or fee-simple land dedications to public open spaces (including greenways) and/or publicly designated conservation lands on all abutting properties. A A A
Road and Lot Layout. New subdivisions must observe existing development patterns, including a grid pattern of connecting roads, rectangular-shaped lots, and block widths and lengths that do not exceed 600 feet A A A
Culs-de-sac. Circular turnarounds shall not be permitted except in the most unusual circumstances when demonstrated needs exist. N/A A A
Non-Pervious Surfacing. Internal access roads may be surfaced with pervious materials and drained by roadside swales. The same is applicable for parking lots and driveways, where permitted. N/A A A
Parking. Off-street parking between the front façade of the principal dwelling and the city street is strongly discouraged and instead design should facilitate side or rear yard parking. A A N/A
Alley Access to Parking. Alleys or driveways accessing the rear of the dwellings are encouraged and may be required in order to provide parking access from the rear lot line rather than the front of the dwelling. N/A A A
Parking Garages for Individual Units. Garages should be located to the rear or side of the dwellings they serve, but if they must be located in the front of the dwelling, garages must be recessed back at least five feet behind the front wall of the dwelling so that it is subordinate rather than dominant when viewed from the city street on which the dwelling fronts. N/A A A
Land Consumption. New development needs to be designed to minimize the amount of land consumed and preserve perimeter buffers and open space to some extent. A A A
Open Space Design. Promote and pursue principles of landscape ecology when reviewing large developments and major subdivisions. A A A
Greenbelts and Wildlife Corridors. Any significant development other than farm or forestry operations should maintain open space in the form of greenbelts and/or wildlife corridors. A A A
Conservation Principles. Major conservation subdivisions (six or more lots) where permitted are required, to follow principles of conservation subdivision and design, either as generally accepted by the planning profession or as specifically stated in city regulations. A A A
Subdivision Lot Design. When land is subdivided, regular or recurring patterns of lots are encouraged; infill development lot layouts that consider the formality of existing and nearby property ownership patterns is encouraged. A A A
  (Ord. No. 2014-473, Exh. A, 9-8-2014; Ord. No. 2016-503, Exh. A, 6-13-2016; Ord. No. 2019-542 , 10-14-2019; Ord. No. 2020-551 , Exh. A, 7-13-2020)
Section 403. - O-I, Office-Institutional District.
403-1 Purpose and intent. The O-I district is intended to provide areas for lands devoted to public use, parks, governmental buildings and facilities, offices, office parks, and educational and institutional uses. Land may be privately-owned, or owned by the state or local government, and may be located throughout the 2030 Comprehensive Plan Character Area designations.
403-2 Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Article 6, "Use and Supplemental Conditions Tables." In cases where a use is permitted but there are specific use regulations for that use specified in Article 7, such regulations shall also apply and must be complied with.
403-3 Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 4.3, "Dimensional Requirements for Nonresidential Zoning Districts."
403-4 Design principles and guidelines. Design criteria to be applied in this zoning district shall be as provided in Table 4.4, "Design Criteria for Nonresidential Zoning Districts" and the architectural standards set forth in section 501-10.
(Ord. No. 2016-503, Exh. A, 6-13-2016)
Section 404. - CB, Commercial Business District.
404-1 Purpose and intent. The CB district is intended to provide locations in which commercial retail, professional service, and office activities can be established so as to best serve the community and traveling public. The CB district is also intended to accommodate redevelopment of under-utilized and/or aging commercial sites to mixed-use developments with an integrated higher density residential component.
The purpose of this district is to provide for and encourage the proper grouping, development and design management of regional and community oriented roadside uses which include a wide variety of sales and services that will best accommodate the needs of the city and the traveling public in order to reduce highway traffic congestion, traffic hazards, and blight along the public streets of the city. The district generally corresponds to the 2030 Comprehensive Plan Character Area designation of the "Lawrenceville—Highway 29 Overlay" and the "MUR Overlay".
404-2 Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Article 6, "Use and Supplemental Conditions Tables." Requirements for conditional use permits and/or administrative conditional approval, supported by site development and screening standards pertain to highway oriented and heavier commercial uses, predominantly associated with automobile functions, protect surrounding neighborhoods and contribute to aesthetic enhancement of the city.
404-3 Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 4.3, "Dimensional Requirements for Nonresidential Zoning Districts."
404-4 Design principles and guidelines. Design criteria to be applied in this zoning district shall be as provided in Table 4.4, "Design Criteria for Nonresidential Zoning Districts" and the architectural standards set forth in section 501-10.
(Ord. No. 2016-503, Exh. A, 6-13-2016)
Section 405. - IA, Industrial Activity District.
405-1 Purpose and intent. The purpose of the IA district is twofold: to provide suitable areas for service-oriented business, and industrial operations and processes integrated with office and/or showroom uses, and related ancillary retail and service activities, with a minimum of interference from traffic and conflicting uses; and to provide and protect areas for processing, fabricating, manufacturing, warehousing, and research industrial uses which do not create noise, odor, smoke, vibration, dust or other emissions and which do not possess other objectionable characteristics that might be detrimental to surrounding neighborhoods or other uses permitted in the district. This district also includes more intensive auto repair establishments and those industrial uses which cannot comply with the limited emissions characteristics, but do comply with all state and federal guidelines for emissions and discharge of effluents into the air, water, and soil, subject to administrative conditional approval or special use permit.
Site standards and design/screening measures are required. Outdoor storage and display is permitted in this district with regulation in association with specified uses in this district. Properties within the IA district generally correspond to the 2030 Comprehensive Plan Character Area designation of "Outlying Commercial and Industrial."
405-2 Permitted and conditional uses. Permitted and conditional uses shall be as provided in Article 6, "Use and Supplemental Conditions Tables." Uses may be clustered into industrial parks, as differentiated by proportion of office and showroom/retail operations, or as stand-alone facilities. More intense and industrial uses potentially incompatible with adjacent properties require conditional or SUP approval.
405-3 Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 4.3, "Dimensional Requirements for Nonresidential Zoning Districts."
405-4 Design principles and guidelines. Design criteria to be applied in this zoning district shall be as provided in Table 4.4, "Design Criteria for Nonresidential Zoning Districts" and the architectural standards set forth in section 501-10.
EXPAND
Table 4.3
Dimensional Requirements for Nonresidential Zoning Districts
Dimensional Requirement CB TC O-I IA
Lot Size and Width Requirements
Minimum area to rezone to this district (square feet) n/a 3,000 n/a 20,000
Minimum lot width, all uses (feet) n/a 30 50 100
Building and Site Requirements
Minimum landscaped open space (percent) 15 10 20 20
Minimum landscape strip required along rights-of-way, except where build to line precludes installation (feet) 10 10 10 10
Building Height Requirements
Maximum height (feet) 80 80 80 80
Principal Building Setbacks and Buffers
Front (feet) 20 0 20 0
Side (feet) 10 0 15 20
Side (feet), abutting any R-1 or R-2 zoning district, including a natural vegetated buffer and/or fence or wall 20 10 30 40
Rear (feet) 15 5 20 25
Rear (feet), abutting any R-1 and R-2 zoning district, including a natural vegetated buffer and/or fence or wall 40 10 40 50
Landscape Strips
Minimum landscape strip required along rights-of-way for any non-single family residential use (feet) 10 None 10 10
Minimum landscape strip required along side property lines for any non-single-family residential use (feet) 5 None 10 5
  EXPAND
Table 4.4
Design Criteria for Nonresidential Zoning Districts
A = Applicable   N/A = Not Applicable
Design Criterion CB TC O-I IA
Compatibility. New development and improvements to existing properties need to be compatible with the existing character, including the sensitive treatment of perimeter property lines to mitigate impacts on abutting properties. A A A A
Historic Character. In areas with identified historic buildings, structures, and sites, the proposed new development or land activity blends with or complements the historic character. A A A A
Alternative Transportation. New development should accommodate and facilitate alternatives to transportation by automobile, including bicycle and pedestrian facilities. A A A A
Pedestrian Access. All likely pedestrian routes should be identified in the design phase and provided for in the development. These include linkages to individual buildings, neighboring properties (when compatible), and existing or planned sidewalks along public roads, as appropriate. A A A A
Open Spaces. Small public open spaces (e.g., plazas, pocket parks, and squares) are integrated into projects of sufficient size (i.e., two acres or more). A A A A
Access and Parking. The development provides for adequate access and off-street parking arrangements. A A A A
Fences and Walls. Fences and walls shall be of the same or compatible material, in terms of texture and quality, as the material and color of the principal building. A A A A
Chain Link Fencing. Chain link fencing is prohibited in front yards and discouraged in other locations but if used, it should be vinyl coated (black, brown, or green color encouraged). A A A A
Operations. All manufacturing, processing, assembly, fabrication, servicing, and repair operations, when permitted, are carried out within an entirely enclosed building. A N/A N/A A
Appearance/Parking. The development layout avoids the appearance of strip commercial development, including the specific provision that no more than ½ of any required parking is located between the public street and the principal building line. A A A A
Parking Screen. Where parking areas are located between a public street and the principal building, vegetation, walls, fences, berms, or some combination is used to screen the view from the street to parking areas, except for approved drives and lot entrances. A A A A
Temporary Buildings. No establishment operates in any non-permanent structure such as a tent, mobile unit, trailer, recreational vehicle, or other temporary building or structure. A A A A
Storage. Equipment and materials must be stored within completely enclosed buildings, unless otherwise permitted. A A A N/A
Loading. All loading areas and facilities are located at the side or rear of a principal building. A A A A
Waste Containers. Trash enclosures should be constructed of sturdy, durable, opaque materials (with trash receptacles screened from view.) A A A A
Multiple Buildings—Compatibility. Multi-unit developments or sites with more than one building shall utilize a consistent or at least stylistically compatible (but not necessarily identical) palette of scale, forms, colors, materials, and textures. A A A A
Accessory Buildings. Accessory structures should be architecturally compatible with the principal building or buildings. A A A A
Building Materials. On front façades and other building sides visible from a public right-of-way, exterior building materials should not include any of the following: smooth-faced concrete block, tilt-up concrete panels, prefabricated steel panels, highly reflective, shiny, or mirror-like materials; mill-finish (non-colored) aluminum metal windows or door frames, exposed, unfinished walls, exposed plywood or particle board, and unplastered, exposed concrete masonry blocks. A A A A
Building Façades. Lengthy, featureless façades and building walls should be avoided. Large, flat, blank expanses on a façade are discouraged. A A A A
Lighting: Pedestrian. Use of low, bollard-type fixtures (three—four feet in height) are encouraged in all areas of significant pedestrian activity during evening hours. A A A A
Lighting Fixtures. All luminaries used for outdoor lighting should be full cutoff luminaries which do not emit any direct light above a horizontal plane through the lowest direct-light-emitting part of the luminaire. A A A A
  (Ord. No. 2014-473, Exh. A, 9-8-2014; Ord. No. 2016-503, Exh. A, 6-13-2016; Ord. No. 2020-551 , Exh. A, 7-13-2020)
Section 406. - MU, Mixed-Use District.
406-1 Purpose and intent. The MU district is intended to accommodate creative mixed-use development along Lilburn's arterials in appropriate locations to promote redevelopment of under-utilized properties and support the transitioning of these areas from primarily low density residential to complementary groupings of mixed-use buildings and sites that include community and neighborhood scale retail and services, professional offices, varied housing options, and open space. Mixed-use development provides a compatible mix of non-residential uses with housing opportunities within the immediate area, either in the same building or in proximity, while maintaining a healthy living environment for the residents of the district.
The MU district is also intended to encourage flexible, innovative and creative concepts in site planning; the efficient reuse of land in transitioning areas; a stable multiple-use environment that is compatible with adjacent uses and established neighborhoods; and walking and bicycling through improved connectivity.
This type of development can accommodate a variety of housing options and densities; however, a mix of housing types and densities alone does not constitute a mixed-use development.
The MU District is specifically applicable to properties within the Character Areas identified as Town Center Overlay and Lawrenceville Highway Overlay depicted on the Lilburn 2019 Comprehensive Plan Character Area Map. All properties within these Character Areas and others that support a mix of highly compatible uses within a single development, are eligible to apply for rezoning to the Mixed-Use Zoning District.
406-2 Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be as provided in Article 6, "Use and Supplemental Conditions Tables" upon Master Concept Plan approval. A mix of residential and non-residential uses is required according to Table 4.6, MU Land Use Requirements. Non-residential uses must be developed concurrently with residential uses according to Sec. 736.
406-3 Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements shall be as provided in Table 4.5, "Dimensional Requirements for MU, Mixed-Use Zoning District" upon Master Concept Plan approval
406-4 Design principles and guidelines. General design criteria to be applied in this zoning district shall be as provided in Table 4.2, "Design Criteria for Residential Zoning Districts"; Table 4.4, "Design Criteria for Nonresidential Zoning Districts"; Sec. 734, "Attached Residential Dwellings (duplex, triplex, quadplex, townhomes)"; Sec. 737, "Multi-Family Dwellings"; and Article 5, as applicable. Final land uses and design will be established in the approved Master Concept Plan.
406-5 Master concept plan and other minimum requirements. See Sec. 736, Mixed-Use Development.
EXPAND
Table 4.5 Dimensional Requirements for MU, Mixed-Use Zoning District.
Maximum Gross Density for Residential Uses 12 dwelling units/acre, with the exception that 18 dwelling units/acre is the maximum for multi-family dwellings
Lot Size and Width Requirements
Minimum project size Two acres (Sec. 736 for existing MU)
Minimum lot size, all uses Established by approved Master Concept Plan
Minimum lot width, all uses Established by approved Master Concept Plan
Minimum lot depth, all uses Established by approved Master Concept Plan
Building and Site Requirements
Minimum floor area per dwelling unit (square feet) Established by approved Master Concept Plan
Building Height Requirements
Maximum height (feet) Established by approved Master Concept Plan
Building Setbacks (Min.), Permitted Principal and Accessory Buildings Established by approved Master Concept Plan
Buffers (Min.) 20-foot wide buffer along abutting R-1 or R-2 property lines
Open Space (Min.) Open space shall include one centralized amenity area and contiguous or linked areas for use of residents and visitors, and recorded as common area ownership. Ref Sec. 5.9 of Development Regulations for minimum areas.
  EXPAND
Table 4.6 Land Use Requirements for MU, Mixed-Use Zoning District
Residential Land Area Nonresidential Land Area (Commercial, Institutional, Office) Gross Floor Area (each use - residential or non-residential) Acreage Density
Minimum 15% 15% 30% 2 acres Ref. Table 4.5
Maximum 70% 70% 70% None Subject to Master Concept Plan approval, exclusive of common area
  ( Ord. No. 2019-542 , 10-14-2019; Ord. No. 2020-551 , Exh. A, 7-13-2020; Ord. No. 2022-579 , Exh. A, 2-14-2022)
