APPENDIX B - DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS[1]
THE
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
OF THE
CITY OF LILBURN, GEORGIA
ADOPTED
MARCH 14, 1988
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Development Regulations of the city as adopted by the city council on March 14, 1988. Amendments to the ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Cross reference— Planning and zoning generally, ch. 101; buildings and building regulations, ch. 105; environment, ch. 109; signs, ch. 113; telecommunication towers and antennas, ch. 117; zoning; app. A; development regulations, app. B.

ARTICLE 1. - AUTHORITY, TITLE, PURPOSE AND INTENT

Sec. 1.1. - Authority And Title.
1.1.1
These rules and regulations are adopted under the authority of the Constitution of the State of Georgia and laws enacted pursuant thereto.
1.1.2
These regulations shall be known as "The Development Regulations of the City of Lilburn, Georgia," and may be referred to generally as "The Development Regulations," or, as used herein, "these Regulations."
( Ord. No. 2020-557 , Att. A, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 1.2 - Purpose.
1.2.1
These regulations are intended to serve the following purposes:
a.
To protect and promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
b.
To provide a system for the subdividing of lands and the accurate recording of land titles.
c.
To provide assurance that lots shown on recorded subdivision plats are usable by the purchasers for their intended and permitted functions.
d.
To encourage economically sound and orderly land development in accordance with the policies and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan of the City of Lilburn.
e.
To assure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land developments in conformance with public improvement policies of the city.
f.
To assure adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments.
g.
To assure the provision of needed open spaces and public facility sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation for purchase of land for public purposes.
h.
To assure equitable review and approval of all subdivision and site plans by providing uniform procedures and standards for the developer.
( Ord. No. 2020-557 , Att. A, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 1.3. - Intent And Application.
It is the intent of these regulations that they apply to and provide guidance for the development of any lands within incorporated area of City of Lilburn, whether the development involves the subdivision of the land for sale to individual users or pertains only to the construction of buildings or other improvements on a single parcel.
( Ord. No. 2020-557 , Att. A, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 1.4. - Agricultural exemption.
Clearly agricultural uses, limited to the cultivation of the land, dairying or animal husbandry, are not intended to be governed by these regulations, provided that land proposed to be converted to a new agricultural use must be zoned RA-200 to be exempt from the provisions herein.
ARTICLE 2. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 2.1. - Use Of Words And Interpretation.
2.1.1
For the purposes of these Regulations, the following shall apply to the use of all words:
a.
When appropriate to the context, words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense, and vice versa.
b.
Words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
c.
The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
d.
The word "may" is permissive.
e.
Use of the word "and" is inclusive and requires that all of the component phrases so connected must be present or fulfilled for sufficiency.
f.
Use of the word "or" is not exclusive (as in "either … or"), and requires that at least one of the component phrases so connected must be present or fulfilled for sufficiency. The word "or" may allow more than one component phrase to be present or fulfilled, as is implied by the common term "and/or."
2.1.2
The following shall control the interpretation of words and phrases as used in these Regulations:
a.
Words and phrases defined in this Article shall be interpreted as defined herein without regard to other meanings in common or ordinary use, unless the context of the word indicates otherwise.
b.
Words or phrases not defined herein shall be interpreted as defined in the Zoning Resolution of the City of Lilburn, or as defined in the City's Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control Ordinance, Buffers, Landscaping and Vegetation Ordinance, as applicable to the use of the word within the context of these Regulations.
c.
Words not defined herein or in the Zoning Resolution or any other applicable code, regulation, or ordinance of City of Lilburn shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use, and shall be interpreted within the context of the sentence, section, and article in which they occur.
( Ord. No. 2020-557 , Att. A, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 2.2. - Definitions Of Words And Phrases.
Certain words or phrases in these Regulations are defined for their use herein as follows:
Alley or Service Drive. A minor, permanent, public service-way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or the side for properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Administrator. The person appointed to administer and implement Article 8 for Post-Construction Stormwater Management for New Development and Redevelopment in accordance with Section 8.2.3.
Applicant. A person, either the owner or the bona fide representative of the owner of land or structures governed by these regulations, who seeks authority to use, develop, construct upon or otherwise enjoy the use of property through any of the procedures established under these regulations.
Arterial. A Principal Arterial, Major Arterial, or Minor Arterial street as defined and designated in the Comprehensive Plan of City of Lilburn or Long Range Road Classification Map of Gwinnett County.
As-Built Survey. See Record Drawing.
Authorized Registered Professional.
(1)
A landscape architect who possesses a current certificate of registration issued by the State of Georgia in accordance with Georgia Law; or,
(2)
A land surveyor who possesses a current certificate of registration issued by the State of Georgia in accordance with Georgia Law; or,
(3)
A professional engineer who possesses a current certificate of registration issued by the State of Georgia in accordance with Georgia Law.
Base flood. The flood having a one percent or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, also known as the 100-year flood.
Base flood elevation. The highest water surface elevation anticipated at any given point during the base flood.
Block. A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets, other than alleys.
BMP or "best management practice." Structural devices to store or treat stormwater runoff and non-structural programs or practices which are designed to prevent or reduce the pollution of the waters of the State of Georgia.
BMP landscaping plan. A design for vegetation and landscaping that is critical to the performance and function of the BMP including how the BMP will be stabilized and established with vegetation. It shall include a layout of plants and plant names (local and scientific).
Buildable Lot of Record. A lot or parcel of land which existed as a single parcel of ownership, recorded as such in its entirety and present boundaries with the Clerk to Superior Court prior to June 2, 1970, or which is shown in its entirety and present boundaries on a Final Plat or Exemption Plat duly approved under these or any previously applicable regulations providing for the subdivision of land in City of Lilburn and recorded with the Clerk to Superior Court of Gwinnett County..
Building Setback Line. A line across a lot parallel to a street right-of-way or other property line establishing the minimum open space to be provided between any principal building and the street or other property line. All building setback lines shall be at least as restrictive as the corresponding minimum yard setbacks required in the Zoning Resolution. On corner lots, the minimum required front yard setback shall be provided along all abutting streets.
Certificate of Development Conformance. Final approval issued by the Department for completion of land development activities for a subdivision or project for which a Development Permit was issued.
Certificate of Occupancy. Final approval by the Department for the use or occupancy of a structure for which a Building Permit was issued.
Channel. A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conveys continuously or periodically flowing water.
City. City of Lilburn, Georgia
City Council. The Mayor and City Council of City of Lilburn, Georgia.
Clearing. The removal of trees or other vegetation, but not including grubbing activities.
Comprehensive Plan. A plan summarizing and illustrating the adopted goals and objectives of the City Council regarding the future location and character of anticipated land uses, transportation, and other public facilities in City of Lilburn. The term "Comprehensive Plan" includes component or functional plans for the city, including but not limited to a plan for land use (i.e., Land Use Plan) or a plan for transportation facilities, and includes the classification of streets and thoroughfares as shown on the Gwinnett County adopted Long Range Road Classification Map.
Concept Plan. A drawing which shows the overall concept (e.g. a concept plan) of a proposed development, and which may include lots and streets in a subdivision or the general location of buildings and improvements for a multi-family or non-residential project, and which may be drawn to approximate dimensions in a freehand style.
Condominium. A form of property ownership in which the buildings or portions of the buildings, whether residential or non-residential in use, are owned by individuals separate from the lands which surround the buildings, said lands held in common ownership by the owners of the several buildings.
County. Gwinnett County, Georgia.
Cul-De-Sac. A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated within the development by a vehicular turnaround. For the purpose of designation, a cul-de-sac street shall be interpreted to begin at the intersection of two or more streets nearest to the vehicular turnaround.
Department. The Department of Planning and Economic Development of the City of Lilburn, Georgia.
Detention. The temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater detention facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility. A structure designed for the storage and gradual release of stormwater runoff at controlled rates.
Developer. Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit who directs the undertaking or proposes to undertake development activities as herein defined, whether the development involves the subdivision of the land for sale to individual users, the construction of buildings or other improvements on a single land ownership, or both.
Development. 1. (verb) All activities associated with the conversion of land or the expansion or replacement of an existing use to any new use intended for human operation, occupancy or habitation, other than for agricultural purposes devoted strictly to the cultivation of the land, dairying or animal husbandry. Such activities include land disturbance (clearing and grubbing the land of vegetation and stumps, and grading) and the construction of improvements such as but not limited to streets, driveways or parking areas, water or sewer mains, storm water drainage facilities, sidewalks or other structures permanently placed on or in the property. 2. (noun) Where appropriate to the context, the term "development" also may be used to denote a specific subdivision or project which is a single entity or intended to be constructed as an interrelated whole, whether simultaneously or in phases.
Development Permit. An official authorization issued by the Department permitting clearing, grubbing, grading, or construction of storm drainage facilities, utilities, access drives, streets, parking or other improvements exclusive of buildings.
Development Plans. Those detailed and professional plans showing the layout and design, site work and construction activities proposed for a project (other than architectural building plans) and including the Preliminary Plat or Site Plan (as applicable), Grading Plan, Tree Protection Plan, Erosion and Sediment Control Plan, Buffer and Landscape Plan, and construction drawings for streets, storm water drainage facilities, sanitary sewers, water supply facilities, and other site improvements.
Diameter Breast Height (DBH). The diameter of a tree measured at a point four and one-half feet above the ground.
Director. The Director of the Department of Planning or his/her designee.
Drainage Improvements. Those facilities and structures intended to control and direct the passage of storm waters and other surface water flows from and across a property; including, but not limited to, swales and ditches, cross drains and other piping systems, catch basins, detention ponds, and velocity dissipation devices.
Dripline. A line on the ground established by a vertical plane extending from a tree's outermost branch tips down to the ground; i.e., the line enclosing the area directly beneath the tree's crown from which rainfall would drip.
Driveway. A vehicular access way in private ownership, other than a Private Street, which provides access primarily to only one property, or to no more than two single-family detached residences.
Easement. Recorded authorization for a specified purpose by a property owner for the use of any designated part of the real property by another entity.
Engineering Department. The City of Lilburn or Gwinnett County Department of Engineering.
Erosion Control Regulations. The City of Lilburn Soil Erosion and Sedimentation and Pollution Control Ordinance.
Exemption Plat. A subdivision plat drawn to Final Plat standards, as contained herein, prepared in accordance with one of the exemptions provided under Article 3 of these Regulations.
Extended Detention. The storage of stormwater runoff for an extended period of time.
Extreme Flood Protection. Measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Fee Simple. A form of property ownership in which the buildings and surrounding lands are owned by the same person.
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The Federal Agency which administers the National Flood Insurance Program. This Agency prepares, revises and distributes the maps and studies referenced in these Regulations.
Final Plat. A finished drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and boundary information and certification required by these Regulations.
Fire Services Division. A division of the Gwinnett County Department of Public Safety charged with the responsibility of enforcing the County's Fire Prevention and Life Safety Codes, and Gwinnett Handicap Ordinance.
Flood or Flooding. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from (1) The overflow of inland waters; or (2) The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map. The official map issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the floodways are shown and the areas of Special Flood Hazard have been defined as Zone "A".
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of Special Flood Hazard and the applicable risk premium zones.
Flood Insurance Study. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
Floodway. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent and areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
Flood prone area. See the Floodplain Management Ordinance of City of Lilburn.
Flood Hazard Area. See Floodplain
Floodplain. Those lands subject to flooding, which have at least a one percent probability of a flooding occurrence in any calendar year based on the basin being fully developed as shown on the current land use plan,: i.e., the regulatory flood. See Floodplain Management Ordinance for ancillary terms.
Flood Related Definitions. See the Floodplain Management Ordinance, for specific definitions of terms used in relation to flooding, alteration of floodplains, construction of structures in or adjacent to floodplains, etc.,
Freeboard. The distance between the maximum water surface elevation and the top of a storm water detention structure.
GCSMM. The latest edition of the Gwinnett County Stormwater Management Manual, Volume 2: Technical Handbook, and its Appendices, and all amendments
Georgia DOT. The Department of Transportation of the State of Georgia.
Grading. The movement, removal or addition of earth on a site by the use of mechanical equipment.
Grading Permit. An official authorization issued by the Department permitting grading of a site, and may include installation of attendant storm water drainage facilities.
Green Infrastructure. An interconnected natural system and/or engineered system that strengthens and mimics natural hydrologic functions and processes through the use of plants and soil to slow, filter, evapotranspire, and infiltrate stormwater runoff close to its source; or the capture and reuse of stormwater runoff.
Grubbing. The removal of stumps or roots from a property.
Health Department. The Gwinnett, Newton, and Rockdale County Health Department.
Hotspot. A land use or activity on a site that has the potential to produce higher than normally found levels of pollutants in stormwater runoff. As defined by the administrator, hotspot land use may include gasoline stations, vehicle service and maintenance areas, industrial facilities (both permitted under the Industrial Stormwater General Permit and others), material storage sites, garbage transfer facilities, and commercial parking lots with high-intensity use.
House Location Plan (HLP). A drawing showing lot information and all improvements, as outlined in Article 10, Section 10.4.
Impervious surface. A surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into the soil.
Industrial Stormwater General Permit. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by Georgia Environmental Protection Division to an industry for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity. The permit regulates pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies based on Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code.
Infiltration. The process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement. A written agreement providing for the long-term inspection, operation, and maintenance of the stormwater management system(s) and its components on a site.
Land Disturbance Application. The application for a land development permit on a form provided by city of Lilburn along with the supporting documentation required in Section 8.2.9.
Land Disturbing Activity. Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state water or onto lands within the state, including but not limited to clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, and filling of land. Land disturbing activity does not include agricultural practices as described O.C.G.A. 12-7-17(5) or silvicultural land management activities as described O.C.G.A. 12-7-17(6) within areas zoned for these activities.
Land Disturbance Permit. Any permit other than a Building Permit issued by the City of Lilburn that authorizes clearing or grading activities on a site or portion of a site. Said permit may be a Clearing, Clearing and Grubbing, Grading, or Development Permit as defined and authorized herein.
Linear Feasibility Program. A feasibility program developed by the city and submitted to the Georgia Environmental Protection Division, which sets reasonable criteria for determining when implementation of stormwater management standards for linear transportation projects being constructed by the city is infeasible.
Linear Transportation Projects. Construction projects on traveled ways including but not limited to roads, sidewalks, multi-use paths and trails, and airport runways and taxiways.
Lot. A portion of a subdivision, or any other parcel of land, intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both. In determining the area and dimensions of a lot, no part of the right-of-way of a road or crosswalk may be included.
Lot, Corner. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot, Double Frontage. A lot other than a corner lot abutting upon two or more streets.
MS4 Permit. The NPDES permit issued by Georgia Environmental Protection Division for discharges from the City of Lilburn's municipal separate storm sewer system.
Major Thoroughfare. Any public street, existing or proposed, which is shown on the Gwinnett County Long Range Road Classification Map.
Mean Sea Level. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For purposes of this Ordinance, the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) and/or North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
Minor Collector. A through street having the primary function of connecting subdivisions or other areas to Major Collector streets or other major thoroughfares, or functioning as a central route within a subdivision channeling traffic from the local streets to an abutting major thoroughfare or another Minor Collector street. For the purposes of these Regulations, a central but non-through route within a subdivision or other project will be considered as a Minor Collector, only if the Average Daily Traffic generated by the development on the route will exceed 2000 trips.
New Development. Land disturbing activities, structural development (construction, installation or expansion of a building or other structure), and/or creation of impervious surfaces on a previously undeveloped site.
Nonpoint Source Pollution. A form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a wastewater treatment facility or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water or groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff, and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Overbank Flood Protection. Measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e. flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain).
Owner. The legal or beneficial owner of a site, including but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of the site
Pedestrian Way. A right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, intended primarily for pedestrians and from which motor propelled vehicles are excluded.
Person. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, or other group or combination acting singly or collectively for a common purpose, and the duly authorized agents thereof.
Planning Commission. The City of Lilburn Planning Commission.
Plat. A map indicating the subdivision, resubdivision, or recombination of land.
Post-construction Stormwater Management. Stormwater best management practices that are used on a permanent basis to control and treat runoff once construction has been completed in accordance with a stormwater management plan.
Post-development. The conditions anticipated to exist on site immediately after completion of the proposed development.
Practicability Policy. The latest edition of the Metropolitan North Georgia Water Planning District's Policy on Practicability Analysis for Runoff Reduction.
Pre-development. The conditions that exist on a site immediately before the implementation of the proposed development. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time before the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Pre-development Hydrology. (a) for new development, the runoff curve number determined using natural conditions hydrologic analysis based on the natural, undisturbed condition of the site immediately before implementation of the proposed development; and (b) for redevelopment, the existing conditions hydrograph may take into account the existing development when defining the runoff curve number and calculating existing runoff, unless the existing development causes a negative impact on downstream property.
Preliminary Plat. A drawing which shows the perimeter boundary, topography, lotting arrangements, street layout, and other features of a proposed subdivision, as specified in these Regulations.
Previously Developed Site. A site that has been altered by paving, construction, and/or land disturbing activity.
Project. A principal building or structure, or group of buildings or structures, planned and designed as an interdependent unit together with all accessory uses or structures, utilities, drainage, access, and circulation facilities, whether built in whole or in phases. Examples include: a principal building on a lot, a residential subdivision, a multi-family development, a shopping center or an office park.
Public Utilities Department. The Gwinnett County Department of Water Resources.
Record Drawing. A survey or other drawing based on a field survey which shows existing features or components and horizontal or vertical information (grades or location of improvements).
Redevelopment. Development on a previously developed site; but excludes ordinary/routine maintenance activities. Redevelopment includes construction, installation, or expansion of a building or other structure), creation or addition of impervious surfaces, replacement of impervious surfaces not as part of routine maintenance, and land disturbing activities associated with structural or impervious development on a previously developed site.
Responsible Party. In the context of enforcement procedures, a person (as defined above) who is alleged to have committed, caused, continued or created a violation of the terms, requirements, regulations, or provisions of these Regulations whether as a direct act, through lack of action or neglect, or at the direction of or on behalf of others. A responsible party may be the owner of a premises where a violation has occurred; an occupant whether through ownership, lease or other tenancy; a contractor, builder or developer; an agent of or person otherwise acting on behalf of the aforementioned parties; or other person acting in violation of these regulations.
Road. See "Street, Public."
Roadway. The paved portion of a street from back of curb to back of curb (or edge to edge of pavement for streets not having curbs) but excluding driveway aprons, bridges, and large single and multi-cell culverts which in an hydrologic sense can be considered to function as a bridge.
Routine Maintenance. Activities to keep an impervious surface as near as possible to its constructed condition. This includes ordinary maintenance activities, resurfacing paved areas, and exterior building changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Runoff. Stormwater runoff.
Runoff Reduction. The interception, evapotranspiration, infiltration or capture and reuse of stormwater runoff.
Sheet Flow. Diffused water running overland to a defined watercourse.
Site. An area of land where development is planned, which may include all or portions of one or more parcels of land. For subdivisions and other common plans of development, the site includes all areas of land covered under an applicable land development permit.
Site Work. Development activity to prepare a property for construction of buildings or finished structures, including clearing, grubbing, grading, and installation of soil sedimentation and erosion control facilities.
Sketch Plan. See Concept Plan.
Street, Private. An access way similar to and having the same function as a public street, providing access to more than one property, but held in private ownership (as distinct from a "driveway").
Street, Public. A right-of-way dedicated to and accepted by the City of Lilburn and/or Gwinnett County for vehicular traffic or over which the City of Lilburn and/or Gwinnett County may hold a prescriptive easement for public access, and including designated and numbered U.S. and State Highways. For the purposes of these Regulations, the term "public street" shall be limited to those which afford or could afford a direct means of vehicular access to abutting property, and exclude limited access roadways which abut a property but from which direct access may not be allowed under any circumstances.
Street, Local Nonresidential. A surface street intended primarily to provide local access to adjacent existing or planned commercial or industrial development and not for through traffic.
Street, Local Residential. A surface street intended primarily to provide local access to adjacent residential development and not for through traffic.
Street, Marginal Access. A local street which is parallel to and adjacent to a major thoroughfare and which provides access to adjacent properties and protection from through traffic.
Stormwater Concept Plan. An initial plan for post-construction stormwater management at the site that provides the groundwork for the stormwater management plan including the natural resources inventory, site layout concept, initial runoff characterization, and first round stormwater management system design.
Stormwater Management Plan. A plan for post-construction stormwater management at the site that meets the requirements of 8.2.7 and is included as part of the land development application.
Stormwater Management Standards. Those standards set forth in Section 8.2.6.
Stormwater Management System. The entire set of non-structural site design features and structural BMPs for collection, conveyance, storage, infiltration, treatment, and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner designed to prevent increased flood damage, streambank channel erosion, habitat degradation and water quality degradation, and to enhance and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Stormwater Runoff. The flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from precipitation.
Structure. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to something on the ground.
Subdivider. Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, or any other group or combination acting as a unit dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as herein defined, including an agent of the subdivider.
Subdivision. 1. (verb) Any division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel, regardless of its existing or future use, into two or more lots, tracts or parcels. The term, "subdivision" shall mean the act or process of dividing property. 2. (noun) Where appropriate to the context, the term "subdivision" also may be used in reference to the aggregate of all lots held in common ownership at the time of division.
Tie Point. The point of reference for a boundary survey. Said point of reference shall be an established, monumented position which can be identified or relocated from maps, plats, or other documents on public record.
Traffic Engineer. The City Director of Planning or designated head of the Gwinnett County Department of Transportation, or his designee.
Tree. Any self-supporting woody perennial plant, usually having a main stem or trunk and many branches, and at maturity normally attaining a trunk diameter greater than three inches at any point and a height of over ten feet.
Tree Diameter. The widest cross-sectional dimension of a tree trunk measured at diameter breast height (DBH) or at any point below DBH for new trees or multi-trunked species, but in no case less than 6 inches from the ground.
Tree Protection Area. Any portion of a site wherein are located existing trees which are proposed to be retained in order to comply with the buffer requirements of the Zoning Resolution or the requirements of the Tree Protection Ordinance.
Tree Protection Plan. A plan that identifies tree protection areas, existing trees to be retained and proposed trees to be planted on a property to meet minimum requirements of the Tree Protection Ordinance, as well as methods of tree preservation to be undertaken on the site and other pertinent information.
Watercourse. A channel with a defined bed and banks, including lakes, ponds, and marshes.
Zoning Resolution. The adopted Zoning Resolution of the City of Lilburn, Georgia, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 012-01, 12-10-2001; Ord. No. 113-04, 3-8-2004; Ord. No. 2020-557 , Att. A, 11-9-2020)
ARTICLE 3. - APPLICATION OF THE REGULATIONS

Sec. 3.1. - Application.
Any land disturbance activity or any development activity must first comply with these Regulations.
Sec. 3.2. - Dedication Of Public Lands And Facilities.
3.2.1
No land dedicated as a public street or other public purpose shall be opened or accepted as a public street or for any other public purpose, and no subdivision of land shall be made, nor subdivision plat, nor part thereof, shall be recorded before obtaining final approval from the Gwinnett County Department of Planning and Development. Said approval shall be entered in writing on the Final Plat by the Director of the Department of Planning and Development. Said Director is hereby authorized to accept such dedications of lands and public facilities on behalf of Gwinnett County and to cause such dedications to be recorded by the Clerk to Superior Court of Gwinnett County, subject to ratification by the Board of Commissioners.
Sec. 3.3. - Transfer Of Land Ownership.
3.3.1
No person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, developer, subdivider or any other owner or agent shall transfer title or attempt to record the title to any land in unincorporated Gwinnett County, and no building permit may be issued on said land, unless:
a.
Said land existed as a single parcel of ownership, recorded as such in its entirety and present boundaries with the Clerk to Superior Court of Gwinnett County prior to the 1970 Subdivision Regulations; or,
b.
Said land is shown in its entirety and present boundaries on a Final Plat as approved (under these or any previous applicable regulations) and duly recorded with the Clerk to Superior Court of Gwinnett County; or,
c.
Said land is shown in its entirety and present boundaries on a plat authorized by the Director and recorded with the Clerk to Superior Court of Gwinnett County pursuant to the regulations governing Subdivision Exemptions contained herein; or,
d.
Said land is an aggregation of properties for land assembly purposes, and no building permit will be requested prior to the filing of an application for and issuance of a development permit, pursuant to these Regulations.
3.3.2
No person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, developer, subdivider or any other owner or agent shall transfer title to any property by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of any map or plat illustrating the subdivision of land without a Final Plat of said land showing said property first having been duly approved under the procedures of these Regulations or any previously applicable regulations and recorded with the Clerk to Superior Court of Gwinnett County.
Sec. 3.4. - Subdivision Exemptions.
3.4.1
General Requirements
For the purpose of these Regulations the types of activities contained in this Section shall be considered subdivisions but exempt from the "procedures" and "required public improvements" portions of these Regulations, except that sidewalks shall be required on streets as described in Sec. 6.13.1(b) of these Regulations. Each such subdivision shall be drawn as an Exemption Plat in accordance with Final Plat standards (except Sections 3.4.4b and 3.4.6) pursuant to the requirements of these Regulations and shall be submitted in five copies together with the appropriate fees to the City of Lilburn for review and approval. Upon approval, the city shall authorize the recording of the Exemption Plat with the Clerk of Superior Court of Gwinnett County and grant the issuance of building permits pursuant to the Codes and Ordinances of the City of Lilburn.
(Res. of 6-10-1996)
3.4.2
Recombinations
The combination or recombination of all of two or more buildable lots of record, where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots or parcels are in compliance with the Zoning Resolution. An Exemption Plat shall not be required for aggregations of properties for land assembly purposes where no building permit will be requested prior to issuance of a development permit.
3.4.3
Minor Subdivisions
The division of a buildable lot of record into five or fewer lots, provided:
a.
Each proposed lot complies with all requirements of the Zoning Resolution and is limited to single-family detached residential use.
b.
Each proposed lot fronts on an existing public street.
c.
All slope and utility easements as well as necessary street right-of-way as determined by the Department based on the Comprehensive Plan are provided at no cost to the County.
d.
Each lot thus created may not be resubdivided pursuant to the provisions of this subparagraph. Such resubdivisions shall be accomplished only through the procedures contained in Article 11 of these Regulations.
e.
Each proposed lot shall comply with the requirements of the Public Utilities Department and the Health Department, as appropriate, whose certification of approval shall be required prior to approval of the Exemption Plat by the Department.
3.4.4
Estate Subdivisions
a.
The division of land in any single family detached residential zoning district into lots having a minimum lot area of at least five acres, provided:
(1)
Each proposed lot fronts on an existing public street which contains or shall contain the necessary right-of-way width required by these Regulations as determined by the Comprehensive Plan.
(2)
Each proposed lot shall provide at least 100 feet of frontage upon the street, shall provide at least 200 feet of lot width measured in accordance with the requirements of the Zoning Resolution, and shall meet or exceed all other minimum requirements of the applicable single family detached residential zoning district.
(3)
All slope and utility easements shall be provided at no cost to the County as determined by the Department.
(4)
No lot thus created may be resubdivided to less than five acres as an exemption to these Regulations.
(5)
Each proposed lot shall comply with the requirements of the Public Utilities Department and the Health Department, as appropriate, whose certification of approval shall be required prior to approval of the Exemption Plat by the Department.
b.
The division of land in any single family detached residential zoning district into lots having a minimum lot area of at least ten acres, provided:
(1)
Each proposed lot fronts on an existing public street.
(2)
Each proposed lot shall provide at least 100 feet of frontage upon the street, shall provide at least 200 feet of lot width measured in accordance with the requirements of the Zoning Resolution, and shall meet or exceed all other minimum requirements of the applicable single family detached residential zoning district.
(3)
No lot thus created may be resubdivided to less than 5 acres as an exemption to these Regulations.
(4)
A Record Survey certified by a Land Surveyor currently registered in the State of Georgia shall be submitted to and approved by the Department showing all lots.
3.4.5
Nonresidential Project Management
The creation of a lot for recording within an overall nonresidential development, provided:
a.
The overall nonresidential development is being undertaken as a single multi-phase or multi-use project under the unified control of a single developer, is zoned for such use or development, and an overall Sketch Plan for the entire project has been approved by the Director.
b.
The proposed subdivision is clearly intended to transfer title for financing or building management purposes and not for the sale of the property for future development, to the satisfaction of the Director.
c.
The proposed lot has been approved by the Department to be provided permanent vehicular access by private drive. Said access shall be established by easement or acceptable covenant prior to or concurrently with recording of the Exemption Plat.
d.
The proposed lot must encompass a principal structure which has been granted a building permit and which is under construction or has been completed.
e.
The Exemption Plat shall be drawn to include the entirety of the overall development and shall clearly identify those lots to be recorded, those lots previously recorded and the remainder of the development which shall be labeled "not included." All easements, dedications, etc., shall be shown as appropriate or required. Each lot shall be consistent with the zoning approved for the overall development and the applicable requirements of the Gwinnett County Zoning Resolution.
3.4.6
Amnesty Lots
The designation of a lot as a buildable lot of record if the lot was recorded between June 2, 1970, and the effective date of these Regulations but not reviewed and approved under the provisions of the Subdivision Regulations in effect at that time, provided:
a.
The Exemption Plat is limited to one individual lot and no property which adjoins the lot is or has been owned by the applicant in whole or in part.
b.
The lot meets all requirements of the Zoning Resolution, and the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Director that approval of the lot will not create nonconformity to the requirements of the Zoning Resolution on any other portion of the original property from which the lot was subdivided.
c.
The lot fronts on an existing public street.
d.
All slope and utility easements as well as necessary street right-of-way as determined by the Director based on the Comprehensive Plan is provided at no cost to the County.
e.
The lot shall comply with the requirements of the Public Utilities Department and the Health Department, as appropriate, whose certification of approval shall be required prior to approval of the Exemption Plat by the Director.
f.
A Record Survey certified by a Land Surveyor currently registered in the State of Georgia shall be submitted to and approved by the Department showing the lot.
ARTICLE 4. - PERMITS REQUIRED FOR DEVELOPMENT OR CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4.1. - Authorization Required For Land Disturbance Or Development Activities.
4.1.1
Permit Required; Exemptions
No disturbance of the land, including clearing, grubbing, or grading activities, shall commence or proceed except in accordance with the provisions of these Development Regulations, unless the activity is exempt as an agricultural activity in the RA-200 zoning district, or is for the construction of an individual single-family detached or duplex residence on a buildable lot of record.
4.1.2
Plan Review and Approval
Any developer of land within unincorporated Gwinnett County shall first submit to the Department such plans, plats, or construction drawings as may be required by these Regulations and shall have been granted a permit consistent with these Regulations and approved by the Department prior to the initiation of development activities. Approval of plans by Gwinnett County officials or employees shall not imply nor transfer acceptance of responsibility for the application of the principles of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, or any other profession, from the professional corporation or individual under whose hand or supervision the plans were prepared and sealed. Article 10 of these Regulations details the elements of the required plans.
4.1.3
Chattachoochee River Corridor Certificate
If any portion of a property included within a proposed project is located within 2,000 feet of the bank of the Chattachoochee River, the project shall first obtain a Certificate authorizing the development under the provisions of the Metropolitan River Protection Act before any clearing, grading, or construction activity may be granted a permit by the Department or any other agency. All permits issued by Gwinnett County pursuant to such authorization shall be consistent with the requirements and provisions of the Certificate. Any violation of the provisions of the Metropolitan River Protection Act Certificate shall be considered as though a violation of these Development Regulations, and shall be subject to the enforcement and penalty provisions hereunder.
4.1.4
Interdepartmental Review and Approval
The Department shall not issue a permit for any development activities until the plans, plats, or construction drawings, as applicable, have been approved by such other departments or agencies as may have authority or jurisdiction over said activities in whole or in part.
4.1.5
Activities Limited to Permit Authorization
Development activities shall be limited to those as authorized by the applicable permit and as may be further restricted by conditions of approval pertaining thereto attached by the Department or other department or agency as may have authority or jurisdiction over said activities in whole or in part.
4.1.6
Developer's Responsibility for Compliance
No permit shall be interpreted to relieve any developer or subdivider of the responsibility of maintaining full compliance with all codes, ordinances, and other regulations of Gwinnett County except as amended by an approved Waiver, Variance, or other relief granted through applicable formal appeal procedures for a specific property or application. Any permit issued in error or in contradiction to the provisions of an adopted code, ordinance, or regulation of Gwinnett County shall be considered to have been null and void upon its issuance.
Sec. 4.2. - Land Disturbance Permits.
4.2.1
Clearing Permit, Clearing and Grubbing Permit, and Grading Permit.
The following permits covering portions of the land development process may be issued in accordance with the requirements of these Regulations and the provisions of any Metropolitan River Protection Act Certificate, if applicable:
a.
Clearing Permit:
(1)
A permit limited to clearing only with no grubbing or other land disturbance (as defined in the Georgia Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Act) may be issued upon identification of the property, the limits of the area to be cleared and the type of activities to be undertaken, and approval of a Tree Protection Plan as may be required under the Tree Protection Ordinance. All clearing activities are to be consistent with the provisions of these Regulations, the Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance, the Zoning Resolution and any conditions of zoning approval.
(2)
A clearing permit shall expire unless activities are commenced within 60 consecutive calendar days of issuance of the permit or if activities lapse and are abandoned for a period exceeding 30 consecutive calendar days.
(3)
A clearing permit shall not be construed as approval of or authorization to construct any improvements, buildings, or other structures on the property.
b.
Clearing and Grubbing Permit:
(1)
A clearing and grubbing permit may be approved based on approval of a Concept Plan and Tree Preservation and/or Replacement Plan (if required) for the development. Appropriate soil erosion and sedimentation controls and tree protection measures shall be placed and maintained as required.
(2)
A permit for clearing and grubbing shall expire unless activities are commenced within 60 consecutive calendar days of issuance of the permit or if activities lapse and the project is abandoned for a period exceeding 30 consecutive calendar days.
(3)
A clearing and grubbing permit shall be limited to the removal of vegetation and stumps and the placement of required tree protection measures and soil erosion and sedimentation facilities, and may authorize the removal of existing structures on the property at the option of the developer. No grading or construction activities may be started under a clearing and grubbing permit. The approval of a clearing and grubbing permit shall not imply the approval of or authorization to construct any improvements, buildings, or other structures on the property.
c.
Grading Permit:
(1)
A grading permit, which may include clearing and grubbing, may be issued prior to approval of a development permit, as provided under Article 10 of these Regulations. A grading permit may also be issued for earth borrow or storage, where no development or construction is proposed or imminent, based on approval of a grading plan, soil erosion and sediment control plan, and hydrology study, consistent with the requirements of the Buffer, Landscape, and Tree Ordinance, the zoning category of the site, and the provisions of the Comprehensive plan (as applicable).
(2)
A permit authorizing but limited to grading (and clearing and grubbing) shall expire unless activities are commenced within 60 consecutive calendar days of issuance of the permit or if activities lapse and the project is abandoned for a period exceeding 30 consecutive calendar days. Any site for which the grading permit expires shall immediately be stabilized to prevent erosion.
(3)
A grading permit shall be limited in its authorization to land grading activities along with associated tree protection, clearing and grubbing, and demolition activities, and may authorize the construction of storm drainage improvements and soil erosion and sedimentation facilities as allowed by the permit itself.
(Ord. No. 113-04, 3-8-2004)
4.2.2
Development Permit
a.
Development Activities Authorized
A Development Permit shall be issued to authorize all activities associated with the land development process, including clearing and grubbing, grading, and the construction of such improvements as streets, surface parking areas and drives, sewer systems, storm water drainage facilities, sidewalks, or other structures permanently placed on or in the property except for buildings or other structures requiring the issuance of a building permit. Water system improvements shall be authorized solely by the Public Utilities Department.
b.
Development Permit Approval
A development permit (which may include grading, clearing, and grubbing) shall be issued at the developer's request following approval of a Metropolitan River Protection Act Certificate, if applicable, and upon approval of a Preliminary Plat for a subdivision or a Site Plan for a non-subdivision project, along with approval of all other development plans and documents required to be submitted under Article 5 of these Regulations. All plans approved for a development permit shall expire after six months if no permit is issued within said time period.
c.
Expiration of Development Permits
A development permit shall expire 12 months after issuance unless development activity as authorized by the permit is initiated within the twelve-month period or if such authorized activities lapse and the project is abandoned for a period exceeding 30 calendar days. Provided, however, that the Director may approve one extension not exceeding three months within which time development activity must commence or the permit shall expire. Said extension shall be applied for within the first twelve consecutive calendar months after the permit's issuance.
A development permit shall expire 12 consecutive calendar months after issuance unless development activity as authorized by the permit is initiated within the twelve-month period or if such authorized activities lapse and the project is abandoned for a period exceeding 60 consecutive calendar days. The Director or designee may approve one extension not exceeding three consecutive calendar months within which time development activity must commence or the permit shall expire. Said extension shall be applied for within the first twelve consecutive calendar months after the permit's issuance.
d.
Lapse in Construction Activity
For the purposes of these Regulations, a lapse in or suspension of development activity as authorized by a development permit, as a direct result of action or inaction on the part of Gwinnett County completely beyond the control of the developer, shall not be considered as a lapse in activity causing the development permit to expire. The 12 months within which development activity must begin shall exclude any such time period during which the activity is prohibited or has been caused to lapse by said County action or inaction.
(Ord. No. 113-04, 3-8-2004)
Sec. 4.3. - Building Permits.
4.3.1
Applicable Codes
Building permits for all structures or interior finishes are issued after meeting the applicable requirements of the fire prevention and life safety codes, and the various health, water, sewer, and building codes of Gwinnett County, as well as the provisions of any Certificate approved under the Metropolitan River Protection Act, if applicable.
4.3.2
Health Department: On-Site Sewage Disposal
For any structure for which on-site sewage disposal will be provided, a permit issued by the Health Department shall be required prior to issuance of a building permit. Said permit may first require approval by the Health Department of a plan showing the location of the sewage disposal system and other site improvements, in accordance with their regulations.
4.3.3
Single-Family and Duplex Residences
a.
A building permit for a single or two-family residence may be issued after the recording of a Final Plat or after the lot upon which the building is to be located has otherwise become a buildable lot of record.
b.
The approval by the Department of a House Location Plan (HLP), Residential Drainage Plan (RDP), or Residential Drainage Study (RDS), may be required prior to issuance of the building permit, as noted and conditioned on the Final Plat or as may be required for compliance with the Georgia Metropolitan River Protection Act. For such lots, a Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued until conformance to the HLP, RDP, or RDS has been field verified by the Department or shown on a certified foundation survey prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor. (See Article 6 for plan and study specifications.)
4.3.4
Swimming Pools
Issuance of a building permit for a swimming pool as an accessory use to a single or two-family residence, whether to be issued at the same time as or subsequent to the permitting or construction of the house or duplex, shall first require approval of a Swimming Pool Location Plan (see example in Appendix A). The plan shall show the proposed location of the swimming pool and enclosing fence relative to the residence, the property boundaries, setback lines, septic tank and septic tank drain field (if any), and any easements on the site, and shall comply with all requirements of the Zoning Resolution and Swimming Pool Code. Based on site conditions, a Residential Drainage Study (RDS) may also be required prior to issuance of the building permit. A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued until conformance to the Swimming Pool Location Plan (and to provisions of the RDS, if applicable) has been field verified by the Department.
4.3.5
Multi-Family and Nonresidential Structures
a.
Issuance of a building permit for any principal building other than a single-family detached or duplex residence (and associated accessory structures) shall first require issuance of a Development Permit for the building site, and the building permit shall be consistent with said Development Permit.
b.
Building plans must be reviewed and approved by the Fire Services Division, Development, and Public Utilities Departments prior to permitting for all structures, except for one and two-family residences or accessory structures. Building Plan approval shall expire after one year, after which review and approval by the Department shall be required prior to issuance of a building permit for the building or additional buildings.
4.3.6
Issuance on Buildable Lots of Record; Exceptions
Building permits shall only be issued on buildable lots of record, as defined in these Regulations, except under special circumstances limited to and as specifically described in this Section, below.
a.
In single-family detached and duplex residential subdivisions, building permits for no more than two model home buildings on specific lots may be issued by the Department on the basis of an approved Preliminary Plat after the approval of the Fire Services Division, and the Health Department or Water Pollution Control Division, as appropriate, and subject to all limitations or requirements as may be established by the Director. No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued for the model home until the Final Plat including the model building lots has been approved and recorded.
b.
In nonresidential subdivisions, building permits may be issued by the Department on the basis of an approved Preliminary Plat and after a Development Permit has been approved reflecting the site plan and construction drawings for specific buildings and associated site improvements. Issuance of the building permits shall be conditioned on the following:
(1)
A performance bond or other approved surety shall have been received in a form acceptable to the County Attorney, drawn in favor of Gwinnett County and in an amount not less than 110 percent of the cost of completing all public improvements as authorized and required by the Preliminary Plat.
(2)
The performance bond or other approved surety shall not exceed an aggregate total for all required public improvements of $12,000.00 per acre for the total acreage included within the subdivision or portion of the subdivision wherein the improvements are proposed, except by approval of the Board of Commissioners.
(3)
Fire Services Division approval shall be required prior to issuance of any building permit, which may include approval of acceptable access and water under pressure for combustible construction.
(4)
Approval of the Health Department for on-site sewage disposal or by the Water Pollution Control Division for a building to be served by public sewer shall be required prior to issuance of any building permit.
(5)
Construction of the required public improvements shall proceed concurrently with construction of the buildings.
(6)
No Certificate of Occupancy shall be approved for any structure within the subdivision prior to recording of the Final Plat without the express approval of the Director.
(7)
The Director shall have found that the public interest is best served and that a public purpose is involved in the acceptance of the performance bond.
c.
In fee-simple townhouse subdivisions, a building permit may be issued on a buildable lot of record established for each building (containing any number of townhouse dwelling units) through recording of a Final Plat following completion of all required public improvements. Upon completion of the buildings, the Final Plat shall be rerecorded to establish individual lots for the townhouse units, based on their actual locations, prior to issuance of Certificates of Occupancy.
ARTICLE 5. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 5.1. - Suitability Of The Land.
5.1.1
Land subject to flooding, improper drainage or erosion, and any land deemed to be unsuitable for development due to steep slope, unsuitable soils or subsurface conditions, etc., shall not be subjected to development for any uses as may continue such conditions or increase danger to health, safety, life, or property, unless steps are taken to eliminate or abate these conditions.
5.1.2
Land within a proposed subdivision or development which is unsuitable for development shall be incorporated into the buildable lots as excess land. Lots which do not comply with the requirements of the Zoning Resolution are prohibited.
Sec. 5.2. - Conformance To The Comprehensive Plan.
5.2.1
Where features of the Comprehensive Plan such as school sites, parks, streets other than local streets, or other public spaces are located in whole or in part in a proposed development, or when these features have not been anticipated by the Comprehensive Plan and planning policy, but are considered essential by the Board of Commissioners, land for such features shall be dedicated. The developer may request the Board of Commissioners to approve a reservation instead of dedication. In such cases, the Board of Commissioners shall consider the request in its normal course of business and shall approve or deny the request within 90 days. (See Article 13)
5.2.2
The Director may waive the dedication and reservation requirements of Article 5.2.1 above whenever the public body responsible for land acquisition executes a written release stating that such a planned feature is not being acquired.
5.2.3
The Director shall disapprove projects when such planned features, as specified by the Comprehensive Plan, are not incorporated therein.
5.2.4
Whenever the development proposes the dedication of land to public use and the Director or the appropriate agency finds that such land is not required or suitable for public use, the Director may require the rearrangement of lots to include such land in private ownership.
Sec. 5.3. - Zoning And Other Regulations.
5.3.1
Whenever there is a discrepancy between minimum standards or dimensions required herein and those contained in zoning regulations, building codes, or other official regulations or resolutions, the most restrictive shall apply. In those instances where the required right-of-way width or roadway improvements for a specific project have been established as a condition of zoning approval, the requirements of the zoning condition shall control, whether more or less restrictive than the requirements of these Regulations.
5.3.2
Building setback lines shall at least conform to the minimum yard requirements of the Gwinnett County Zoning Resolution. Building setback lines along all public streets shall be no less than the front yard setback required on the property by the applicable zoning district in the Zoning Resolution.
Sec. 5.4. - Required Public Improvements.
5.4.1
General Requirements
Every developer of lands within the jurisdiction of these Regulations shall provide the public improvements included in these Regulations as shall be appropriate to serve the project, in accordance with these Development Regulations and other pertinent Codes, Ordinances, and regulations of Gwinnett County. Said improvements and associated lands shall be provided at no cost to Gwinnett County, and shall be dedicated or otherwise transferred, as required, to the public in perpetuity and without covenant or reservation, except as otherwise provided herein.
Sec. 5.5. - Lots.
5.5.1
Lots shall at least conform to requirements of the Gwinnett County Zoning Resolution.
5.5.2
Double frontage and reverse frontage lots shall be required for residential subdivisions along major thoroughfares where internal access can be provided. A no-access easement of at least ten feet in width, across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery. When located along a major thoroughfare, the no-access easement shall be planted with a single line of shrubs or trees, or contain a solid or decorative fence, or contain such other landscaping treatments or grade changes which will produce a partial screening effect, as may be proposed by the developer. In no-access easements along minor collectors or local streets, planting or other screening treatments shall be at the sole option of the developer.
Sec. 5.6. - Survey Monuments.
5.6.1
All corners shall be marked with an iron rebar or pin, at least one-half inch in diameter and 18 inches long and driven so as to extend no less than one inch above the finished grade.
5.6.2
On subdivisions containing floodplains, flood elevation references shall be set in accordance with the requirements of the Floodplain Management Ordinance.
Sec. 5.7. - Standard Drawings.
5.7.1
The Department shall maintain on file for consultation and distribution a set of Standard Drawings illustrating details of construction and design of streets, storm water drainage facilities, site improvements and other elements related to the development of land in accordance with these Regulations and under the jurisdiction of the Department.
5.7.2
The Standard Drawings shall illustrate minimum acceptable standards for land development activities authorized under these Regulations, but shall not supersede more restrictive prudent design requirements or good engineering practice as applied to specific situations on a case-by-case basis.
5.7.3
The Standard Drawings shall be treated as though a part of these Regulations for application to the minimum standards for design and construction of improvements required herein and subject to the modification and appeal provisions of Article 13.
Sec. 5.8. - Buffers, Landscaping, And Tree Preservation.
5.8.1
General Applicability
The standards and requirements contained in this Section shall apply only to tree protection and replanting, landscaping, buffers, and landscape areas specifically required by County code, ordinance or resolution, and shall not apply to general or voluntary landscaping or to open space otherwise provided on a property.
5.8.2
General Requirements
Any property required by the Zoning Resolution or conditions of zoning approval to provide buffers or other specific landscaping shall do so in compliance with the standards included in the Zoning Resolution and this Section.
a.
For any such property, a Buffer and Landscape Plan shall be prepared by a Registered Landscape Architect, Urban Forester, or Arborist, and shall be approved by the Department prior to issuance of a Development Permit on the subject site.
b.
At the discretion and option of the applicant, a required Buffer and Landscape Plan and a required Tree Protection Plan may be combined into a single document, as long as the details and elements of the plans can be clearly and easily identified.
c.
Buffer areas or portions of buffer areas where natural vegetation provides an adequate visual screen as required by the Zoning Resolution, may remain natural and undisturbed by any clearing, grading or other construction activity except as allowed by the Development Permit.
d.
In buffer areas where natural vegetation is non-existent or inadequate to provide a visual screen as required by the Zoning Resolution, replanting or supplemental planting shall be required. The Department may also approve additional or alternative screening elements such as planted earthen berms or solid fences where appropriate to the intent of the requirements of the Zoning Resolution.
e.
Planted buffers, and buffers provided with supplemental plantings, may contain any combination of evergreen plant materials having a natural survival expectancy for the Gwinnett County environment, and meeting the screening standards established in the Zoning Resolution.
f.
Landscape areas or strips shall include trees to the extent required by the Zoning Resolution or conditions of zoning approval. Plant materials may be grouped to achieve aesthetic results following professional landscaping standards, provided sight distances as required by these Regulations are preserved.
g.
Tree plantings required by the Zoning Resolution for parking lots shall provide a minimum landscape area of 64 square feet for each tree. However, the trees themselves may be grouped or arranged so as to achieve aesthetic results following professional landscaping standards, or may be located in landscape islands within the parking lot having an area less than 64 square feet (but being of adequate size for the tree proposed). The total landscape area provided shall equal the number of trees multiplied by 64 square feet, shall be located in conjunction with the parking lot, and shall meet the standards of paragraph f., preceding.
5.8.3
Tree Protection Ordinance Requirements
a.
Any property required to retain and protect existing trees or to plant new trees under the provisions of the Gwinnett County Tree Protection Ordinance shall do so in compliance with said Ordinance.
b.
Areas set aside for the retention of existing trees or the planting of new trees, in fulfillment of any portion of the tree density standard of a property other than the property upon which the areas are located, shall be established within an easement drawn in favor of the other property, and appropriately recorded.
5.8.4
Landscaping Performance Surety
In the event that the requirements of this Section have not been met at the time that a Certificate of Development Conformance otherwise could be approved by the Department, and the Certificate is requested, the Director may approve an agreement with the owner or his agent that the provisions and requirements of these Regulations shall be met. The owner or his agent shall post a Landscaping Performance Bond or other County approved surety in an amount equal to 110 percent of the cost of materials, labor, and other attendant costs, incidental to the installation of the required landscaping as part of the owner's Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement with the County. The surety shall:
a.
Be drawn in favor of Gwinnett County.
b.
Be in a form satisfactory to the County Attorney.
c.
Specify the time for the completion of the landscaping, which shall not be longer than three months following Approval of the Certificate of Development Conformance or be in accordance with such other time table for completion acceptable to the Department.
Sec. 5.9. - Open Space.
5.9.1
Open Space. Land for use as open space shall be provided in single-family detached subdivisions having a gross area of 25 acres or more and a minimum lot size less than 1 acre; in duplex subdivisions having a gross area of 10 acres or more; in MU developments with a residential component; or single-family attached, townhouse, and apartment developments having a gross area of 5 acres or more. "Open space" includes pocket parks, commons, plazas, community green or lawn, greenways, and recreation areas (including, but not limited to, pools, playgrounds, and parks with active recreation facilities).
a.
For each development, 5% of the gross land area shall be maintained as open space.
b.
Prohibited use of open space. The following shall not be considered when calculating required open space:
1)
Required setback areas.
2)
Required zoning buffers
3)
Environmental buffers defined in Chapter 109.
4)
Required landscape strips.
5)
Drainage easements and facilities, with the exception that detention facilities designed as an amenity may be included.
6)
Private yards.
7)
Public street rights-of-way or private street easements, including streetscapes located within those rights-of-way or easements.
8)
In addition, structures not intended for landscape or recreational purposes are prohibited to be located in open space areas.
c.
In subdivisions the open space shall be deeded to a qualified Property Owner's Association, Homeowner's Association or other legal entity incorporated under the laws of Georgia. The open space shall be deeded to said entity with a restriction that the land shall be used exclusively for recreational purposes and shall be made available to all residents of the subdivision project on an equal basis. The qualified entity shall provide for the mandatory membership of all the owners of property within the subdivision, and shall be established under the laws of Georgia; it shall be responsible for the perpetuation, maintenance and function of the open space and all uses or facilities therein. All covenants shall be recorded simultaneously with the final subdivision plat.
d.
In multi-family rental or condominium projects, land provided for open space use in accordance with these requirements shall be held in the ownership of the owner of the project.
( Ord. No. 2020-551 , Exh. B, 7-13-2020)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2020-551 , Exh. B, adopted July 13, 2020, amended § 5.9 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 5.9 pertained to recreation areas.
Sec. 5.10. - Construction Materials.
All exterior building materials and colors contribute significantly to the visual impact of a building. The exterior building skin shall be composed of one dominant facing material and not more than two additional materials. The dominant material shall comprise 60 percent or greater of each building elevation.
(a)
Dominant exterior materials may include:
(1)
Brick.
(2)
Decorative Stone.
(3)
Glass: Warm and cool tones.
(4)
Cementatious Lap Board Siding (Residential Only).
(b)
Dominant exterior building materials may not include:
(1)
Aluminum, metal, or steel siding.
(2)
Vinyl siding (applies to new construction only).
(3)
Glass, if highly reflective material.
(4)
Or other exterior architectural treatment deemed not acceptable by the Building Official or his designee.
(c)
Dominant facade colors shall be chosen from a city approved color palette of acceptable colors. The use of high intensity colors, metallic colors and black is prohibited. Building trim and accents may feature brighter colors. Neon tube lighting may not be used for building trim or accent.
(d)
Final color and material selections shall be reviewed and approved by the Building Official or his designee, prior to installation.
(Ord. No. 067-03, 3-10-2003; Ord. No. 186-06, 4-10-2006)
ARTICLE 6. - ACCESS AND RIGHT-OF-WAY REQUIREMENTS; AND STREET IMPROVEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 6.1. - Access.
6.1.1
When land is subdivided into larger parcels than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged and designed so as to allow for the opening of future streets and to provide access to those areas not presently served by streets.
6.1.2
No subdivision shall be designed so as to completely eliminate street access to adjoining parcels of land. Every development shall be designed to facilitate access to adjoining properties which are developed or anticipated to be developed in a manner substantially similar to the subject property. Locations of interparcel access shall be as required by and subject to the approval of the Department.
6.1.3
Any lot required to provide minimum frontage by the zoning district in which the lot is located shall provide vehicular access directly from a public street along the frontage or along any other property line which abuts a public street, except as provided in Section 6.1.5.
6.1.4
Private streets as may be approved under the provisions of the Zoning Resolution shall be constructed to the roadway construction standards of Gwinnett County, as contained herein.
6.1.5
Vehicular access easements may be provided from a public street indirectly via easement in any one or more of the following circumstances:
a.
The property is not required to provide a minimum frontage by the applicable zoning district, provided that the easement shall be in a location and the access driveway shall have a width and alignment acceptable to the Fire Services Division and the Department.
b.
The property is a buildable lot of record, as defined herein, but does not meet the minimum frontage requirement of the applicable zoning district. The property must be served by an exclusive access easement which shall be limited to the provision of access to only one principal use or structure.
c.
The access easement serves a single-family residence on a lot which is otherwise a buildable lot of record, and which is sharing a common driveway with no more than one other single-family residence.
d.
The access easement was lawfully established as such under the code, ordinances, or regulations of Gwinnett County prior to the adoption of these Development Regulations.
e.
The access easement coincides with a private roadway approved under the code, ordinances, or regulations of Gwinnett County. All new private roadways must be constructed to the roadway standards of these Development Regulations, and their ownership and maintenance responsibility by private party(s) must be clearly established on the Final Plat of the development.
f.
The access easement serves a buildable lot of record which meets the minimum frontage requirements of the Zoning Resolution, but at which point the access is not achieved.
Sec. 6.2. - Streets.
6.2.1
Dedication of Street Right-of-Way
Right-of-way for all abutting and internal Public streets, existing and proposed, shall be dedicated in accordance with the street classifications as shown on the Long-Range Road Classification Map of the Comprehensive Plan, or as otherwise required by the Board of Commissioners.
6.2.2
Street Improvements
Streets, whether abutting or internal, existing or new, shall be constructed or improved under those circumstances and to the standards as established in these Regulations. Roadway improvements shall be in accordance with the street classifications as shown on the Long-Range Road Classification Map of the Comprehensive Plan, or the Zoning Resolution, as applicable, or as otherwise required by the Board of Commissioners.
Sec. 6.3. - Minimum Right-Of-Way And Street Improvements.
6.3.1
Right-of-Way and Pavement Widths
Minimum widths for new construction (new streets or Project Access Improvements) shall be as shown on Table 6-A. (unless a modification is granted by the director).
Exception: new local streets in subdivisions developed in the Conservation Subdivision Overlay District shall be as follows, unless a modification, which proposes more progressive minimum widths, is granted by the Director:
a.
Right-of-Way Width of New Interior Local Streets.
Entrance Streets: at least 46 feet.
Other Interior Streets: at least 44 feet.
Right-of-Way Radii: at least 45 feet for cul-de-sac or "eyebrow" turnarounds.
Alleys: no minimum if not to be dedicated to the county; at least 15 feet if to be dedicated to the county.
b.
Pavement Width of New Interior Local Streets.
Entrance Streets: at least 24 feet (measured to back of curb).
Other Interior Streets: at least 22 feet (measured to back-of-curb).
Curb and Gutter: at least 1.5 feet.
Pavement Radii: at least 40 feet for cul-de-sac or "eyebrow" turnarounds (measured to back of curb).
Alleys: at least ten feet (concrete or asphalt), with or without curb, if not to be dedicated to the county; at least 12 feet if surfaced with asphalt (which includes 1 foot concrete curbs) and at least ten feet if surfaced with concrete (with or without curb).
(Ord. No. 011-01, 12-10-2001; Ord. No. 2014-476, Exh. A, 10-13-2014)
6.3.2
Street Rights-of-Way
a.
The minimum width of right-of-way shall be dedicated based upon the street categories as shown on the Long-Range Road Classification Map in the Comprehensive Plan and as contained in these Regulations.
b.
On any existing street which abuts a property, one-half of the required width of right-of-way shall be dedicated at no cost to Gwinnett County as measured from the centerline of the roadway, along the entire property frontage.
c.
Additional street right-of-way width may be required to be dedicated at intersections or other locations fronting the property where turning lanes, storage lanes, medians, or realignments are required for traffic safety and minimum right-of-way standards would be inadequate to accommodate the improvements.
Table 6-A
MINIMUM RIGHT-OF-WAY AND ROADWAY WIDTHS
FOR NEW STREETS AND WIDENINGS
EXPAND
STREET CATEGORY MINIMUM RIGHT-OF-WAY MINIMUM ROADWAY
Principal Arterial
Urban 120' 6 thru lanes
Controlled Access 150' 6 thru lanes
Major Arterial 100' undivided - 67'
100' divided - 2×29'
120' six lanes
Minor Arterial
Nonresidential Area 100' 66'
Residential Area 80' 52'
Major Collector
Nonresidential Area 80' 52'
Residential Area 80' 52'
Minor Collector
Nonresidential Area 60' 32'
Residential Area 60' 28'
Local Street
Nonresidential Area 60'* 32'
Nonresidential Cul-de-sac 60' radius 50' radius
Residential Area-Urban 50' 28'
Residential Cul-de-sac 50' radius 40' radius
Residential-Rural (R-140) 60' 24'**
Residential-Rural Cul-de-sac 60' radius 40' radius**
  *Utility easement shall be provided in a location and size as required by the Gwinnett County Water System.
**Measured to edge of pavement. Curb and gutter not required in the R-140 zoning district.
d.
If a new street or thoroughfare is proposed by the Comprehensive Plan or the State of Georgia to adjoin or traverse the property, the proposed road shall be accommodated into the development plans of the property in accordance with Article 5 of these Regulations. These rights-of-way requirements shall govern except where there exist clearly defined plans of the Georgia Department of Transportation or Gwinnett County which require additional rights-of-way. In that case, the greater right-of-way requirements shall govern.
6.3.3
Street Widenings - Single Family Detached Residential Subdivisions
a.
When property fronting on an existing or proposed County road is to be developed or redeveloped as a single-family or duplex subdivision and the property provides access to the County road, roadway improvements (pavement, curb and gutter) are required to bring the County road up to a typical standard section in accordance with the classification of the road and the standards of these Regulations. Associated drainage improvements as deemed necessary by the Department shall also be required.
b.
Required widening and curb and gutter shall be provided from the centerline of the roadway along the side of the road upon which the property abuts, and along the entire property frontage.
c.
The developer shall be responsible for the relocation of public or private utilities and drainage structures as may be occasioned by the required roadway improvements.
d.
Exceptions:
(1)
Subdivisions with double frontage lots along an abutting existing major or minor collector or arterial road, and which are limited to interior street access, shall provide a minimum 12 feet of pavement width from existing centerline, grading for a shoulder of at least 11 feet in width, and to provide the necessary surface drainage facilities flowing to a ditch section along the entire property frontage (See Standard Drawings). It shall further be required to provide a deceleration lane 26 feet from centerline to back of curb for a distance of no less than 200 feet from the centerline of each subdivision ingress/egress along with additional 50 foot taper. Additional right-of-way as may be necessitated by these improvements shall be acquired by Gwinnett County at the expense of the subdivider.
(2)
Any subdivision with property fronting on an existing County road for which there exists clearly defined plans of the Georgia Department of Transportation or Gwinnett County shall be exempt from design and may be exempt from part or all construction of the widening of the County road at the discretion of the Board of Commissioners. In such cases, the dollar equivalency of improvement requirements (including curbing, utility relocation, and drainage structures), as estimated by the Director of Engineering, shall be deposited in the Engineering Department's appropriate road construction account prior to the Approval of Development Conformance or within 30 days of County award of a construction contract, whichever occurs first.
(3)
In such other cases as may be required by or acceptable to the Director of Engineering, in lieu of part or all of the required widening, the dollar equivalency of the street improvement requirement (including curbing, utility relocation, and drainage structures), shall be deposited in the Engineering Department's appropriate road construction account prior to the Approval of Development Conformance or within 30 days of County award of a construction contract, whichever occurs first.
6.3.4
Street Widenings - Single Family Attached, Multi-Family, and Nonresidential Developments
a.
When property fronting on an existing or proposed County road is to be developed or redeveloped for multi-family or nonresidential purposes, if access is gained directly from the street, roadway improvements (pavement and curb and gutter) are required along the said road across the entire property frontage at least in accordance with the classification of the road and the standards of these Regulations. Associated drainage improvements as deemed necessary by the Department shall also be required.
b.
Required widening and curb and gutter shall be provided from the centerline of the roadway along the side of the road upon which the property abuts. (NOTE: If the abutting street is substandard, a drainage swale ditch, shoulder, and adequate base shall be provided and the roadway paved on the opposite side of the road from the project, 12 feet from centerline to edge of pavement. Please refer to Section 6.3.6, Substandard Streets, for additional information.)
c.
The Developer shall be responsible for the relocation of public or private utilities and drainage structures as may be occasioned by the required roadway improvements.
d.
Exceptions:
(1)
Developments with no access along an abutting street, shall improve the adjacent street 12 feet from the existing centerline, shall provide grading for a shoulder of at least 11 feet in width, and shall provide the necessary surface drainage facilities flowing to a ditch section (See Standard Drawings).
(2)
Any development with property fronting on an existing or proposed County road for which there exists clearly defined plans of the Georgia Department of Transportation or Gwinnett County shall be exempt from design and may be exempt from part or all construction of the widening of the County road at the discretion of the Board of Commissioners. In such cases, the dollar equivalency of improvement requirements (including curbing, utility relocation, drainage structures), as estimated by the Director of Engineering, shall be deposited in the Engineering Department's appropriate road construction account prior to the Approval of Development Conformance or within 30 days of County award of a construction contract, whichever occurs first.
(3)
In such other cases as may be required by or acceptable to the Director of Engineering, in lieu of part or all of the required widening, the dollar equivalency of the street improvement requirement (including curbing, utility relocation, and drainage structures) shall be deposited in the Engineering Department's appropriate road construction account prior to the Approval of Development Conformance or within 30 days of County award of a construction contract, whichever occurs first.
6.3.5
New Streets
a.
All new streets proposed to be constructed in a subdivision or other development, whether to be public or private, shall be designed and constructed at least to the standards contained in these Regulations in accordance with the category of said streets.
b.
If a new street or thoroughfare is proposed by the Comprehensive Plan or the State of Georgia to traverse the property, the proposed road shall be constructed in accordance with the street category as shown in the Comprehensive Plan and contained in these Regulations, or as shown on plans proposed by the County or State of Georgia.
c.
If the facility is to be a limited or controlled-access roadway and access to the property from the street or thoroughfare will not be allowed by the State or the County, the improvements shall not be required. The specific vertical and horizontal alignment of the proposed roadway shall be as established or approved by the Engineering Department. Funds may be paid for the improvements in lieu of actual construction under the same terms as for street widenings (See Sections 6.3.3 or 6.3.4, as applicable).
d.
As provided in Article 13 of these Regulations, the developer may file a Waiver application seeking relief from this Section or participation in the costs by the County.
e.
In residential subdivisions, a dead end ("stub") street required under Section 6.4.4 to provide access to an abutting property may be exempted from construction of roadway improvements and public utilities under the following circumstances:
(1)
No lot within the proposed subdivision will gain access from the "stub" street.
(2)
A Concept Plan has not been submitted or approved on the neighboring tract.
(3)
The "stub" street shall be fully designed as part of the Development Plans. However, the right-of-way shall only be cleared and rough graded in accordance with the approved plans, and all disturbed areas grassed.
(4)
Connections for future extension of all public utilities shall be constructed as part of the subdivision. Curb returns shall be provided to the future "stub" street roadway location, and curb and gutter shall be installed across the roadway stub at the right-of-way line (extended).
(5)
The right-of-way for the "stub" street shall be dedicated as part of the Final Plat. Slope easements or construction easements, if required by the street design, shall be shown on the Final Plat.
6.3.6
Substandard Streets
a.
In the event that a development has access to a substandard street (i.e., is a dirt or gravel road), the following improvements shall be required:
(1)
If the abutting substandard street provides the primary means of access to the development and is dirt or gravel, the street shall be upgraded to a standard paved roadway from the end of the improvements required under a(2), below, to the nearest standard paved road along the route of primary access.
(2)
Along the entire length of the property frontage where the access is other than primary, in addition to the road widening requirements of Section 6.3.3 or 6.3.4, as applicable, along the entire property frontage, a drainage swale ditch, shoulder, and adequate base shall be provided and the roadway paved on the opposite side of the road from the project, 12 feet from centerline to edge of pavement.
b.
Off-site improvements required under a(2), above, shall, at a minimum, result in a full-section roadway meeting the requirements of a Local Residential Rural roadway (24 feet edge to edge of pavement, with drainage swale ditches as needed). Responsibilities shall be as follows:
(1)
The Developer shall design the road and provide the labor, equipment, and materials required for roadway improvements and necessary drainage improvements.
(2)
If the County desires the roadway to be improved to a standard greater than that for a Local Residential-Rural roadway, the County shall provide or pay the cost of the additional materials and labor.
(3)
All right-of-way required for these off-site improvements shall be acquired by the County at the expense of the developer.
6.3.7
Improvements Along State Highways
For any development which abuts a state highway or other right-of-way controlled by the State of Georgia, improvements to the roadway and the location and design of any street or driveway providing access from the state highway shall comply with the standards and requirements of the Georgia Department of Transportation only when more restrictive than the requirements of these Regulations. A permit for the proposed access or improvements shall be required to have been approved by the Georgia D.O.T. and incorporated into the construction drawings for the project prior to issuance of a development permit by the Department.
Sec. 6.4. - General Layout Requirements.
6.4.1
Conformance
The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all streets shall conform at a minimum to the Comprehensive Plan and these Regulations.
6.4.2
Local Streets and Minor Collectors
Local streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic will be discouraged. Minor collectors shall be provided to channel through traffic movements within a development, where appropriate to the design and a major thoroughfare is not proposed by the Comprehensive Plan. Minor collectors also may be provided as central routes within large residential subdivisions, where appropriate to the design, based on projected traffic demands exceeding 2000 trips per day (ADT).
6.4.3
Cul-de-sac Streets
a.
Dead end streets designed to have one end permanently closed shall provide a cul-de-sac turnaround and may be no more than 2000' in length. Additional length necessitated by topography or property configuration may be approved by the Director.
b.
The length of a cul-de-sac street shall be measured from the center of the cul-de-sac to the center of the intersection with another street, whether a through street or another cul-de-sac or dead-end street.
c.
Eyebrow cul-de-sacs (half cul-de-sacs) will be allowed only at "right-angled" intersections having an interior angle between 80 degrees and 100 degrees.
d.
Cul-de-sacs shall conform to the layout and dimensional requirements as shown in the Standard Drawings.
6.4.4
Other Dead End Streets
a.
A dead end street shall be provided to the boundary of a subdivision where necessary to provide access to a land-locked abutting property, for planned continuity of future circulation, for improved access for public safety vehicles, or for the extension of public water or other utilities to neighboring lands. Such dead end streets shall be designed so as to allow their reasonable extension, and shall be located so as to be reasonably incorporated into a street design for the neighboring property. The stub street requirement may be waived by the Director, provided the Directors of the Departments of Public Safety and Public Utilities concur.
b.
Dead end streets on abutting property shall be extended into a proposed subdivision and incorporated into the street design of the development. This requirement may be modified by the Director in cases of serious topographical hardship or dissimilar zoning which would create unacceptable land use conflicts between the two developments. This modification may be conditioned on the provision of easements necessary for the extension of public utilities, the provision of a cul-de-sac or other permanent turnaround on the dead end street, or the removal of the dead end street back to its nearest intersection.
c.
Where a dead-end street (other than a cul-de-sac) serves more than three lots, the developer shall be required to provide a temporary vehicular turnaround within the right-of-way. This requirement may be waived if extension of the dead-end street is approved and under construction prior to its inclusion in a Final Plat.
d.
Where a street dead ends at the property boundary and the street exceeds 1000' in length, a permanent cul-de-sac shall be required. In this situation, right-of-way to the property boundary shall be required, but the pavement shall not be extended to the property boundary beyond the edge of the paved cul-de-sac turnaround. In no case shall a dead end street exceed 2000' in length unless approved by the Department due to unusual topographic conditions or property configuration.
6.4.5
Service Roads
Where a development borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way, or limited access highway right-of-way or major thoroughfare, a public street may be required to be constructed and dedicated within the development approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way.
6.4.6
Half-Streets
Half-streets (new boundary streets having one-half of the minimum required right-of-way or pavement width) shall not be allowed nor access to same be permitted should it exist.
6.4.7
Reserve Strips
Land in private ownership adjacent to public rights-of-way which could control or are intended to control access to streets, alleys, or public lands shall not be permitted unless their control is given to the County under ownership, dedication, or easement conditions approved by the County Attorney or acceptable to the Director. No development shall be designed so as to deny access to abutting properties.
6.4.8
Alleys
Alleys shall not be provided except where the subdivider produces evidence satisfactory to the Director of the need for same. In the event the Director approves a design which proposes alleys, the alley shall be constructed as though it were a local street pursuant to the standards contained in these Regulations.
6.4.9
Street Jogs
a.
Street jogs shall either directly align or have offsets of a minimum of 125 feet for residential subdivision streets and a minimum of 200 feet for nonresidential subdivision streets, as measured between centerlines of said streets.
b.
All major thoroughfares shall provide offsets as required by the Department, where alignment is not desirable or feasible, but in no case be spaced less than 600 feet apart as measured between centerlines of said streets.
Sec. 6.5. - Traffic Control Devices.
6.5.1
Traffic Control Signals
Street signs, traffic control signs, and devices such as striping and signalization, shall be provided through payment of fees to the Engineering Department for the installation thereof.
6.5.2
Street Name Signs
Street name signs shall have a green background with white legends mounted on channelized posts. Alternate post material shall be subject to the review and approval of the Traffic Engineer. The posts and signs will be furnished and installed by the County at all street intersections. The developer (or homeowners association in the event an alternate signpost is chosen at a later date) shall pay the County's costs.
6.5.3
Traffic Signals and Signs
All traffic signals and signs shall conform to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (no decorative traffic control devices will be allowed).
6.5.4
Striping Requirements
All newly constructed streets having 4 or more lanes (including auxiliary lanes) and existing streets being widened with one or more additional lanes shall be striped or the payment of said striping costs shall be required from the Developer by the Engineering Department prior to the Approval of Development Conformance for the project. Striping shall be accomplished with paint meeting Georgia DOT standards conforming to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
6.5.5
Payment of Fees
Payment for materials and installation of street name and traffic control signs in new developments shall be required by the Engineering Department prior to the Approval of Development Conformance.
6.5.6
Street Lights
The installation of all street lighting fixtures within County right-of-way must be approved by the Engineering Department prior to such installation.
Sec. 6.6 - Specifications.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth herein, all of the materials, methods of construction, and workmanship for the work covered in reference to street construction shall conform to the latest specifications of the Georgia Department of Transportation (Georgia DOT).
Sec. 6.7. - Subgrade Preparation For All Streets.
6.7.1
Subgrade preparation shall be in accordance with Georgia DOT specifications and these Regulations.
6.7.2
If any sections of the subgrade are composed of topsoil, organic, or other unsuitable or unstable material, such material shall be removed and replaced with suitable material and then thoroughly compacted as specified for fill or stabilized with stone or a geo-textile or geo-grid.
6.7.3
Fill shall be placed in uniform, horizontal layers not more than eight inches thick (loose measurement). Moisture content shall be adjusted as necessary to compact material to 95 percent of maximum dry density except for the top 12 inches which shall be compacted to 100 percent of maximum dry density.
6.7.4
After the earthwork has been completed, all storm drainage, water, and sanitary sewer utilities have been installed within the right-of-way as appropriate, and the backfill in all such ditches thoroughly compacted, the subgrade shall be brought to the lines, grades, and typical roadway section shown on the plans.
6.7.5
Utility trenches cut in the subgrade shall be backfilled as specified herein. Compaction tests at the rate of one per 150 feet of trench shall be provided to verify compaction.
6.7.6
The subgrade must pass roll testing prior to placement of the base material. With the approval of the Department, a geo-textile or grid may be used to stabilized a subgrade that does not pass proof rolling.
6.7.7
When the street is to be used for construction traffic before the paving work is completed, a layer of stone (except crusher run) shall be laid as a traffic surface. This material shall not be used as a part of the base material. It may be worked into the subgrade, or it shall be removed before the base course is set up for paving.
6.7.8
Provisions shall be made to drain low points in the road construction when the final paving is delayed. A break in the berm section is required when the curbing has not been constructed. After installation, drainage under the curb to side slopes is required, using minimum four-inch diameter pipe sections or alternative means or method approved by the Director of Planning and Economic Development (i.e. vegetated swales).
(Ord. No. 2014-476, Exh. A, 10-13-2014)
Sec. 6.8. - Road Widening.
6.8.1
For sections wider than four feet, the widening section shall comply with the construction standards for new streets, in accordance with the street's category as shown on the Comprehensive Plan. The base course must pass roll testing prior to paving. If a delay in paving is reasonably expected by the Developer or the Department, the base shall be primed with 0.25 gallon of R.C. 70 per square yard and cured for seven days before paving.
For road sections less than four feet wide, eight inches of Class "A" concrete base (5 inches on local and minor collector streets) and one and one-half inches of "E" or "F" topping shall be required.
Sec. 6.9. - New Local And Minor Collector Streets.
6.9.1
Local and Minor Collector Streets Within a Residential Subdivision.
a.
Asphalt Streets - The following types of base materials may be used:
i)
Crushed Stone Base
a)
Two-Pass Street: The base course shall consist of at least six inches of graded aggregate base. After being thoroughly compacted and brought to proper section two and one-half inches of "B" binder shall be applied. If a delay in paving is reasonably excepted by the Developer or the City, the base shall be primed with 0.25 gallon of R.C. 70 per square year the same day it is compacted, and cured for seven days prior to paving. The final one and one-half inches of type "E" or "F" wearing course shall be applied after 90 percent of the houses on the street have been built, or prior to the end of the maintenance period (but after the 11th month), whichever occurs first. Prior to applying wearing course, a tack coat shall be applied to the binder course at a rate of no less than 0.05 gallons per square yard. Type of tack shall be approved by the City prior to placement.
6.9.2
Local Residential-Rural Roads
Where allowed (in the R-140 zoning district and upgrading off-site substandard streets), local residential-rural roads do not require curb and gutter. The road base shall be extended one foot beyond the edge of pavement, and the shoulders shall extend eight feet from edge of pavement to a standard ditch section on each side (see Standard Drawings). Otherwise, the roadway shall comply with the standard for new residential subdivision streets, above.
6.9.3
Nonresidential Subdivision or Development Streets
The following standards shall apply to new local and minor collector streets in nonresidential subdivision and other nonresidential projects:
a.
Asphalt Streets - The following types of base materials may be used:
1)
Two-Pass Street (Crushed Stone Base): The base course shall consist of at least seven inches of graded aggregate base. After being thoroughly compacted and brought to proper section two and one-half inches of "B" binder shall be applied. If a delay in paving is reasonably expected by the Developer or the City, the base shall be primed with 0.25 gallon of R.C. 70 per square yard the same day it is compacted, and cured for seven days prior to paving. The final one and one-half inches of type "E" or "F" wearing course shall be applied after 90 percent of the buildings on the street have been built, or prior to the end of the maintenance period (but after the 11th month), whichever occurs first. Prior to applying wearing course, a tack coat shall be applied to the binder course at a rate of no less than 0.05 gallons per square yard. Type of tack shall be approved by the City prior to placement.
Sec. 6.10. - New Major Thoroughfares.
6.10.1
Minor collectors abutting a residential or nonresidential project and major thoroughfares shall be constructed in accordance with designs prepared by Gwinnett County or Georgia DOT, or, if no design has been prepared, to the following standards:
Table 6-B
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR MAJOR THOROUGHFARES
EXPAND
STREET CATEGORY BASE BINDER TOPPING
Principal Arterial 10" GAB 5"* 1 1/2" E or F
Major Arterial 10" GAB 4" B 1 1/2" E or F
Minor Arterial 10" GAB 3" B 1 1/2" E or F
Major Collector 10" GAB 3" B 1 1/2" E or F
Minor Collector 8" GAB 2" B 1 1/2" E or F
  *2 1/2" type "B" binder and 2 1/2" asphaltic concrete base.
Sec. 6.11. - Curb And Gutter.
6.11.1
All new streets or street widening sections shall be provided with curb and gutter except in residential subdivisions zoned R-140, where swale ditches may be provided in lieu of curbing. All gutters shall drain smoothly with no areas of ponding.
b.
Typical minimum section shall be six inches × 24 inches × ten inches for roll-back curb and six inches × 24 inches × 12 inches for vertical curb.
6.11.2
RESIDENTIAL CURBING
a)
(No change)
b)
Typical minimum section shall be six inches × 24 inches × 12 inches
c)
Vertical curbing only
(Res. of 8-9-1993)
6.11.3
Industrial or Commercial Curbing
a.
Concrete shall be Class "A" (as defined by Georgia D.O.T.) and have a minimum strength of 3,000 PSI at 28 days.
b.
Typical section shall be eight inches × 24 inches × 14 inches.
c.
Vertical curbing only.
6.11.4
Principal Arterial and Major Arterial Curbing
a.
Concrete shall be Class "A" (as defined by Georgia D.O.T.) and have a minimum strength of 3,000 PSI at 28 days.
b.
Typical section shall be eight inches × 30 inches × 14 inches.
c.
Vertical curbing only.
6.11.5
Construction Methods:
a.
Curb and gutter shall be set true to line and grade, horizontal be filed staked, and finished to the section shown on the plans. Along the widening section of a road which the Engineering Department has identified for resurfacing within one year of the construction, the grade of the new gutter shall be placed one inch above the widening pavement grade in areas where drainage will not be adversely affected.
b.
Line and grade shall be set by developer's engineer or surveyor on grades less than two percent and over 12 percent, and within 100 feet in both directions from all low points.
c.
One-half inch expansion joints or premolded bituminous expansion joint material shall be provided at all structures and radius points and at intervals not to exceed 250 feet in the remainder of the curb and gutter.
d.
Inferior workmanship or unprofessional construction methods resulting in unacceptable curb and gutter will be cause for rejection of the finished work.
e.
Disturbed areas along all curbing shall be backfilled, stabilized, and grassed.
Sec. 6.12. - Undergound Utilities.
6.12.1
All water and sanitary sewer utilities and storm drain facilities within the curbs shall be installed and the ditches backfilled and thoroughly compacted before any pavement or base is installed.
6.12.2
Once the base has been placed, all further installation of utilities under the roadway shall be bored or otherwise comply with Section 7.5, Street Cuts.
6.12.3
All utility manholes and valve boxes shall be brought flush to the finished grade within the roadway section.
6.12.4
All utility locations shall adhere to the details found in the Standard Drawings.
Sec. 6.13. - Sidewalks.
6.13.1
Where Required
a)
(No Change)
b)
Sidewalks shall also be required along any developments road frontage in accordance with this Section along the following roads:
1)
Arcado Road
2)
Beaver Ruin Road
3)
Burns Road
4)
Camp Creek Road
5)
Dickens Road
6)
Harbins Road
7)
Harmony Grove Road
8)
Hillcrest Road
9)
Indian Trail - Lilburn Road
10)
Killian Hill Road
11)
Lawrenceville Highway (U.S. Highway 29)
12)
Lilburn-Stone Mountain Road
13)
Luxomni Road
14)
Main Street
15)
Old Highway 29
16)
Pleasant Hill Road
17)
Poplar Street
18)
Railroad Avenue
19)
Rockbridge Road
20)
Shady Drive
21)
W. Johns Road
(Res. of 5-8-1989)
6.13.2
Sidewalk Design and Construction Standards.
a.
Location
1.
Sidewalks shall be required adjacent to both sides of internal subdivision streets in all subdivisions.
2.
Sidewalks shall be located in front of water lines and other easements. Any other arrangement will require a waiver of the Development Regulations from the City Council.
b.
Setback.
Sidewalks shall be located at least two feet from the back of curb except in conservation subdivisions or subdivisions in which street trees are provided (bridges excepted). Sidewalks in conservation subdivisions or in subdivisions in which street trees are provided shall be located at least six feet from the back of curb (bridges excepted). The area between the curb and the sidewalk shall consist of grass or landscaping.
Where no curb exists, or if road improvements are proposed for installation by the county, sidewalks, including appropriate drainage facilities, shall be constructed in a location acceptable to the Department of Transportation.
(Res. of 2-8-1993; Ord. No. 011-01, 12-10-2001)
6.13.3
Design Standards
a)
Sidewalks shall be located two feet from the back of curb. Where no curbing exists or proposed road improvements are anticipated, sidewalks shall be placed in a location acceptable to the Department of Transportation.
b)
All new sidewalks shall match and provide a smooth transition to any existing sidewalks with no steps.
c)
Sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete and shall be a minimum of four feet in width (for interior roads) and five feet in width (on other streets) and four inches thick. Concrete shall be Class "A" (as defined by Georgia DOT) and have a strength of 3,000 PSI at 28 days.
d)
Curb ramps shall be provided at all curb termini and shall be a minimum of four feet in width exclusion of flared sides.
e)
Expansion joins shall be provided at all property lines (extended) and driveway crossings. Control joint shall be provided every ten feet.
f)
Disturbed areas resulting from sidewalk construction shall be backfilled, stabilized, and grassed.
(Res. of 2-8-1993)
6.13.4
Installation Deadlines
Sidewalks shall be installed prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy or Final Plat approval in accordance with this Subsection unless a performance bond is posted. The cost of sidewalk installation may be set aside in escrow where proposed road improvements may impact the location of the sidewalk.
a)
Sidewalks required on residential building lots shall be installed prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for each individual dwelling.
b)
Sidewalks required on common or recreation areas shall be installed prior to Final Plant approval.
c)
Sidewalks required on other projects shall be installed prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy or Certificate of Completion, as appropriate.
(Res. of 2-8-1993)
Sec. 6.14. - Street Lights.
Street lights shall be required along all interior streets of residential subdivisions. Lights shall be located within the rights-of-way and shall be of the type and spacing approved by the utility company of jurisdiction. Type and spacing shall also be approved by Gwinnett County and the city.
(Res. of 7-10-1995)
ARTICLE 7. - UTILITIES AND EASEMENTS

Sec. 7.1. - Placement Of Utilities.
7.1.1
All authorized public underground utilities shall be located within the right-of-way of a public street or within an easement designated for such use. Within public street rights-of-way, placement of the various authorized utilities (power, gas, cable TV, water and sewer) shall conform to the specific locations designated for such use by Gwinnett County, as illustrated in the Standard Drawings.
7.1.2
No other underground utilities, such as lawn sprinkler systems, private yard lighting, etc., shall be installed within a public right-of-way or easement except by authorization of the Department. Such authorization, if issued, shall require the applicant to assume all repair costs of the applicant's facilities should they be damaged during the course of installation, maintenance or repair of any of the public utilities authorized to occupy said right-of-way or easement.
Sec. 7.2. - Water System And Fire Hydrants.
7.2.1
The developer shall install or have installed a system of water mains connected to a public water supply system in accordance with the requirements of the authority having jurisdiction.
7.2.2
All water mains, fire hydrants and appurtenances shall be designed in accordance with the policies, standards, plans and specifications of the Gwinnett County Fire Prevention Ordinance and the water system having jurisdiction. Where jurisdiction resides with the Gwinnett County Water System, the public water mains and appurtenances shall be designed by the County Water System upon submittal of the Development Plans for the project.
7.2.3
Within the Gwinnett County Water System jurisdiction, water mains and appurtenances shall be installed after installation of the curbs and gutters and before paving, or after staking of the curb line and submission to the Water System of an as-graded survey of the street profile accompanied by a certification executed by the owner as required by the Water System that the subgrade will not change. Water mains shall be relocated as necessary to meet Water System regulations prior to Approval of Development Conformance, if improperly located to final curb line or grade.
Sec. 7.3. - Sanitary Sewage Disposal.
7.3.1 A permitted connection to an approved sewage disposal system shall be made, which may require the construction of an on-site system as required by the Gwinnett County Health Department or the extension of public sanitary sewerage and associated appurtenances as required by Gwinnett County Department of Water Resources (DWR).
7.3.2 All structures shall connect to a public sewer when such sewer is available, in accordance with the Sewer Regulation of Gwinnett County. Sewer availability shall be determined by the Gwinnett County DWR or the Gwinnett County Health Department.
7.3.3 Private Wastewater Disposal. Approval by Gwinnett County Health Department. Before an individual on-site sewage disposal system is installed, the owner must first obtain plan approval and permit from the County Health Department.
a)
The owner of a private system shall maintain the system in a sanitary manner at all times and in such manner that a nuisance is not created.
7.3.4 The Gwinnett County Health Department may require notation that certain lots must meet additional requirements prior to issuance of a building permit, or otherwise limit development relative to Health Department regulations.
a)
Such lots may include lots upon which adequate depth to water table must be demonstrated during the appropriate season of the year, adequate percolation tests must be performed, limitations upon the number of bedrooms in a dwelling, etc.
b)
No lot shall be included on a Final Plat which the Health Department is not confident will meet all Health Department regulations at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable period of time, except lots proposed to be served by sanitary sewer in subdivision where "dry" sewer has been installed. Such lots shall be noted - "Approval by Gwinnett County DWR for connection to sanitary sewer required prior to issuance of a building permit."
7.3.5 New Communal sewage disposal prohibited in the city, notwithstanding any and all provisions of GA state code (Ga. Comp. R. & Regs., chapter 290-5-26). If a property does not use an individual on-site sewage disposal system, it must be connected to a sewer leading to the POTW.
1.
Communal sewage disposal system shall mean any private decentralized wastewater collection, treatment or disposal system that: (1) serves more than one residence or property, or (2) flows between more than one parcel or tract of land. It may consist of collector lines, pumps, sewage tanks and/or soil treatment units.
( Ord. No. 2019-543 , 12-9-2019)
Sec. 7.4. - Easements.
7.4.1
Temporary construction easements and permanent easements for public utilities, drainage or other public facilities shall be dedicated to Gwinnett County in accordance with County Requirements. All easements shall be grassed as appropriate for soil stabilization.
7.4.2
Drainage easements are required for any part of the drainage system that is designed to carry storm water runoff from more than one parcel, existing or proposed. Drainage easements for natural drainage features, improved ditches, pipe construction, and detention facilities shall be cleared, opened, and stabilized at the time of development to control surface water run-off (See also Article 8). Run-off slope and sideslopes shall be specified by the Developer's Engineer, according to good engineering practice. Drainage easements for storm drain pipes that carry water shall be provided according to the minimum requirements found in Table 7-A below, and shall conform to City Standards. The minimum easement width shall be based on the pipe diameter (span) plus two feet plus two times the pipe invert depth. This value shall be rounded up to the nearest five feet. For pipes exceeding 16 feet in depth, a pre-submittal conference shall be held with the City to determine what additional requirements may be required.
(Ord. No. 2014-476, Exh. A, 10-13-2014)
TABLE 7-A
EASEMENTS FOR STORM DRAIN PIPES
EXPAND
PIPE
SIZE (FT) MAXIMUM PIPE INVERT DEPTH (FT)
MINIMUM EASEMENT WIDTH (FT)
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
1.25 20 20 20 20 20 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40
1.5 20 20 20 20 20 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40
2.0 20 20 20 20 20 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40
2.5 20 20 20 20 25 25 25 30 30 35 35 35 40
3.0 20 20 20 20 25 25 25 30 30 35 35 35 40
3.5 20 20 20 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40 40
4.0 20 20 20 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40 40
4.5 20 25 25 25 30 30 35 35 35 40 40
5.0 20 25 25 25 30 30 35 35 35 40 40
5.5 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40 40 40
6.0 25 25 30 30 30 35 35 40 40 40
  (Ord. No. 013-01, 12-10-2001)
7.4.3
Permanent sanitary sewer easements shall be no less than 20 feet in width when no other parallel utilities are located therein. When warranted, temporary construction easement widths shall be determined by the Water Pollution Control Division.
7.4.4
A common 30-foot wide easement for sanitary sewer and drainage purposes may be allowed if the pipes are parallel and at least ten feet is provided between pipes (on center).
7.4.5
Drainage Easements shall be provided where a development is traversed by or contains a water course, impoundment, detention pond, floodplain, natural stream or channel. It shall conform substantially to the limits of such natural drainage feature, but shall be no less than 20 feet in width.
7.4.6
Drainage Easements off the street right-of-way shall be clearly defined on the Final Plat. The property owner will be required to keep the easement free of obstruction in such a way as to assure the maximum designed flow at all times. The property owner shall not alter any drainage improvements without the prior written approval from the County.
7.4.7
All drainage, sewer, access or other easements which were required to be cleared shall be fine graded and grassed within ten days of completing construction work. The use of sediment control measures may be required to protect the area until a comprehensive vegetative cover is obtained.
Sec. 7.5. - Street Cuts.
7.5.1
All utility construction plans within County right-of-way shall be reviewed and approved by the Department before construction begins. Street cuts shall not be allowed unless deemed absolutely necessary due to the presence of rock, the need to tap into an existing line beneath the road surface, or other circumstance which makes boring impossible or infeasible.
7.5.2
No street cut shall be authorized until such Street Cut Fees have been paid.
7.5.3
If approved, all trenches shall be backfilled and compacted the same day the trench is opened.
a.
Trenches under the paving shall be returned to 95 percent compaction.
b.
Trenches elsewhere shall be returned to 90 percent compaction.
c.
See Section 6.7 for trench compaction and test requirements.
7.5.4
All trenches under paving shall be concreted with eight inches of Class "A" concrete base and one and one-half inch of type "E" or "F" wearing course asphalt is to be spread.
a.
The paving cut shall be widened to a minimum of nine inches beyond the edges of the trench.
b.
The edges of the paving cut shall be smooth.
7.5.5
Contact the Department or Department of Public Utilities for public utility extension information from the existing to the proposed development. Contact the Traffic Engineer at least 24 hours in advance of closure of traffic lanes.
ARTICLE 8. - SITE GRADING AND POST CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2020-557 , Att. A, adopted Nov. 9, 2020, amended Art. 8 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Art. 8, §§ 8.1—8.9, pertained to site grading, stormwater detention, stormwater conveyance systems, and soil sediment control requirements and derived from Ord. No. 011-01, adopted Dec. 10, 2001; Ord. No. 012-01, adopted Dec. 10, 2001; Ord. No. 013-01, adopted Dec. 10, 2001; Ord. No. 045-02, adopted Aug. 12, 2002; Ord. No. 046-02, adopted Aug. 12, 2002; Ord. No. 055-02, adopted Nov. 11, 2002; Ord. No. 113-04, adopted March 8, 2004; and Ord. No. 2014-476, Exh. A, adopted Oct. 13, 2014.

Sec. 8.1. - Site Grading.
8.1.1
Grading shall be done in accordance with the lines and grades shown on the approved Grading Plan.
8.1.2
Grading plans shall show existing and proposed contour lines at an interval of no more than two feet. Grading plans shall outline the areas which are required to remain undisturbed (i.e., Tree Protection Areas, buffers, etc.) and shall indicate protective fencing or staking to be placed surrounding such areas.
8.1.3
Embankment layering shall be consistent with the Gwinnett County Stormwater Management Manual.
8.1.4
The maximum slopes for cut or fill shall be 2:1 (two feet of horizontal run for each foot of rise or fall), except 1) for earthen dam embankments, 2) for rock cuts, 3) where certified by a professional geotechnical engineer or 4) as discussed in Section 8.1.5 below.
8.1.5
Earthen dam embankments shall be 3:1 maximum unless a modification application is approved. The intent of the earthen dam embankment slope regulation is to provide for public safety, soil stability, and dam maintenance considerations. The depth of cut referred to herein shall be the maximum cut or fill that shall be allowed to occur in any one section of cut or fill. The slope of cut or fill shall be uniform throughout for each section of cut or fill unless benching is approved by the city.
8.1.6.
A grading plan showing building pad locations shall be submitted for residential subdivisions, unless a modification application is approved. The intent of this regulation is to ensure adequate lot to lot drainage. Granting a modification will not nullify the intent of these regulations. The grading plan may be used as a construction document prior to approval of the Final Plat or as a guidance document for individual lot grading after approval of the Final Plat.
( Ord. No. 2020-557 , Att. A, 11-9-2020)
Sec. 8.2. - Post-Construction Stormwater Management.
8.2.1
Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this Article is to protect, maintain and enhance the public health, safety, environment and general welfare by establishing minimum requirements and procedures to control the adverse effects of increased post-construction stormwater runoff and nonpoint source pollution associated with new development and redevelopment. Proper management of post- construction stormwater runoff will minimize damage to public and private property and infrastructure, safeguard the public health, safety, environment, and general welfare of the public, and protect water and aquatic resources. Additionally, the City of Lilburn is required to comply with several State and Federal laws, regulations and permits and the requirements of the Metropolitan North Georgia Water Planning District's regional water plan related to managing the water quantity, velocity, and quality of post- construction stormwater runoff.
8.2.2
Adoption and Implementation of the GCSMM; Conflicts and Inconsistencies.
a.
In implementing this Article, the City of Lilburn shall use and require compliance with all relevant design standards, calculations, formulas, methods, and other guidance from the Gwinnett County Stormwater Management Manual (GCSMM) as well as all related appendices.
b.
This Article is not intended to modify or repeal any other Section, ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, including but not limited to any applicable stream buffers under state and local laws, and the Georgia Safe Dams Act and Rules for Dam Safety. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between any provision in the City of Lilburn's MS4 permit and this Article, the provision from the MS4 permit shall control. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between any provision of this Article and the GCSMM, the provision from this Article shall control. In the event of any other conflict or inconsistency between any provision of this Article and any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, the provision that is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
c.
If any provision of this Article is invalidated by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or invalidate the remainder of this Article.
8.2.3
Designation of Administrator. The City of Lilburn Planning and Development Department (P&D) shall implement this Article but may, from time to time, appoint someone to administer and implement this Article.
8.2.4
Applicability Criteria for Stormwater Management Standards. This Article applies to the following activities:
a.
New development that creates or adds 5,000 square feet or greater of new impervious surface area or that involves land disturbing activity of 1 acre of land or greater;
b.
Redevelopment (excluding routine maintenance and exterior remodeling) that creates, adds, or replaces 5,000 square feet or greater of new impervious surface area or that involves land disturbing activity of 1 acre or more;
c.
New development and redevelopment if
(i)
such new development or redevelopment is part of a subdivision or other common plan of development, and
(ii)
the sum of all associated impervious surface area or land disturbing activities that are being developed as part of such subdivision or other common plan of development meets or exceeds the threshold in (a) and (b) above;
d.
Any commercial or industrial new development or redevelopment, regardless of size, that is a hotspot land use as defined in this Article; and
e.
Linear transportation projects that exceed the threshold in (a) or (b) above.
8.2.5
Exemptions from Stormwater Management Standards. This Article does not apply to the following activities:
a.
Land disturbing activity conducted by local, state, authority, or federal agencies, solely to respond to an emergency need to protect life, limb, or property or conduct emergency repairs;
b.
Land disturbing activity conducted by local, state, authority, or federal agencies, whose sole purpose is to implement stormwater management or environmental restoration;
c.
Repairs to any stormwater management system deemed necessary by the administrator;
d.
Agricultural practices as described O.C.G.A. 12-7-17(5) within areas zoned for these activities with the exception of buildings or permanent structures that exceed the threshold in 8.2.4 (a) or (b);
e.
Silvicultural land management activities as described O.C.G.A. 12-7-17(6) within areas zoned for these activities with the exception of buildings or permanent structures that exceed the threshold in 8.2.4 (a) or (b);
f.
Installations or modifications to existing structures solely to implement Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements, including but not limited to elevator shafts, handicapped access ramps and parking, and enlarged entrances or exits; and
g.
Linear transportation projects being constructed by the City of Lilburn to the extent the Department determines that the stormwater management standards may be infeasible to apply, all or in part, for any portion of the linear transportation project. For this exemption to apply, an infeasibility report shall first be submitted to the Department that contains adequate documentation to support the evaluation for the applicable portion(s) and any resulting infeasibility determination, if any, by the Department.
8.2.6
Stormwater Management Standards. Subject to the applicability criteria in Section 8.2.4 and exemptions in Section 8.2.5, the following stormwater management standards apply.
a.
Design of Stormwater Management System: The design of the stormwater management system shall be in accordance with the applicable sections of the GCSMM and/or as directed by the administrator. Any design which proposes a dam shall comply with the Georgia Safe Dams Act and Rules for Dam Safety as applicable.
b.
Natural Resources Inventory: Site reconnaissance and surveying techniques shall be used to complete a thorough assessment of existing natural resources, both terrestrial and aquatic, found on the site. Resources to be identified, mapped, and shown on the Stormwater Management Plan, shall include, at a minimum (as applicable):
(i)
Topography (minimum of 2-foot contours) and Steep Slopes (i.e., Areas with Slopes Greater Than 15%),
(ii)
Natural Drainage Divides and Patterns,
(iii)
Natural Drainage Features (e.g., swales, basins, depressional areas),
(iv)
Natural feature protection and conservation areas such as wetlands, lakes, ponds, floodplains, stream buffers, drinking water wellhead protection areas and river corridors,
(v)
Predominant soils (including erodible soils and karst areas), and
(vi)
Existing predominant vegetation including trees, high quality habitat and other existing vegetation.
c.
Better Site Design Practices for Stormwater Management: Stormwater management plans shall preserve the natural drainage and natural treatment systems and reduce the generation of additional stormwater runoff and pollutants to the maximum extent practicable.
d.
Stormwater Runoff Quality/Reduction: Stormwater Runoff Quality/Reduction: For projects submitted on or after January 8, 2018, the applicant shall provide runoff reduction in accordance with the requirements of the Gwinnett County Stormwater Management Manual. To the extent Runoff Reduction has been determined to be infeasible for all or a portion of the site using the Planning and Development Practicability Policy, then water quality shall apply for the remaining runoff from a 1.2 inch rainfall event. The design professional shall schedule a meeting with Planning and Development when requesting removal or reduction of the runoff reduction requirement.
(i)
Runoff Reduction - The stormwater management system shall be designed and sized to retain the first 1.0 inch of rainfall on the site using runoff reduction methods, to the maximum extent practicable. Runoff reduction practices are stormwater best management practices, BMPs, used to disconnect impervious and disturbed pervious surfaces from the stormwater drainage system to reduce the post-construction stormwater runoff rates, volumes, and pollutant loads. If the Runoff Reduction cannot be met in whole or in part, then the water quality standards shall be used to treat the remainder.
(ii)
Water Quality-The stormwater management system shall be designed to detain or treat the runoff from 85% of the storms that occur in an average year and reduce the average annual post-development total suspended solids (TSS) loadings by 80% in order to meet the water quality requirement. The water quality requirement can be waived if the entire 100% of runoff reduction is provided. Water quality and runoff reduction can also be provided in conjunction in order to meet the water quality requirements outlined in the Gwinnett County Stormwater Management Manual (GCSMM)
(iii)
If a site is determined to be a hotspot as detailed in Section 8.2.4, the City of Lilburn may require the use of specific or additional components for the stormwater management system to address pollutants of concern generated by that site.
e.
Stream Channel Protection. The increase in the frequency and duration of bankfull conditions in stream channels due to urban development is the primary cause of stream bank erosion and the widening and downcutting of stream channels. Channel protection is not required if the post development discharges are less than 2 cfs at each individual discharge location for the 1-yr storm event.
Stream channel protection shall be provided by using all of the following three approaches:
(i)
24-hour extended detention storage of the 1-year, 24-hour return frequency storm event. This standard is intended to reduce the frequency, magnitude, and duration of post-development bankfull conditions. The volume to be detained is also known as the channel protection volume (CPv).
(ii)
Erosion prevention measures, such as energy dissipation and velocity control to prevent downstream erosion and stream bank damage.
(iii)
Preservation of any applicable stream buffer. Stream buffers not only provide channel protections but also water quality benefits and protection of stream side properties from flooding.
f.
Overbank Flood Protection: Downstream overbank flood protection shall be provided by controlling the post-development peak discharge rate to the pre-development rate for the 25-year, 24-hour storm event.
g.
Extreme Flood Protection: Extreme flood protection shall be provided by controlling the 100-year, 24-hour storm event such that flooding is not exacerbated.
h.
Downstream Analysis: Due to peak flow timing and runoff volume effects, some structural components of the stormwater management system fail to reduce discharge peaks to pre-development levels downstream from the site. A downstream peak flow analysis shall be provided to the point in the watershed downstream of the site or the stormwater management system where the area of the site comprises 10% of the total drainage area in accordance with Section 3.1.9 of the GCSMM. This is to help ensure that there are minimal downstream impacts from development on the site. The downstream analysis may result in the need to resize structural components of the stormwater management system.
i.
Stormwater Management System Inspection and Maintenance: The components of the stormwater management system that will not be dedicated to and accepted by the City of Lilburn, including all drainage facilities, best management practices, credited conservation spaces, and conveyance systems, shall have an inspection and maintenance agreement to ensure that they continue to function as designed. All new development and redevelopment sites are to prepare a comprehensive inspection and maintenance agreement for the on-site stormwater management system. This plan shall be written in accordance with the requirements in Section 8.2.15.
8.2.7
Pre-Submittal Meeting, Stormwater Concept Plan, and Stormwater Management Plan Requirements.
a.
Before a land development permit application is submitted, a pre-submittal meeting with the City of Lilburn Planning Department is required. The pre-submittal meeting should take place before site analysis and inventory. The purpose of the pre-submittal meeting is to discuss opportunities, constraints, and ideas for the stormwater management system before formal site design engineering. Applicants must request a pre-submittal meeting with the City of Lilburn when applying for a Determination of Infeasibility through the Practicability Policy.
b.
The stormwater concept plan shall be prepared using the minimum following steps:
(i)
Develop the site layout using better site design techniques, as applicable.
(ii)
Perform screening and preliminary selection of appropriate best management practices and identification of potential siting locations.
c.
The stormwater concept plan shall contain:
(i)
Common address and legal description of the site,
(ii)
Vicinity map, and Existing conditions and proposed site layout which illustrate at a minimum:
(iii)
Existing and proposed topography (minimum of 2-foot contours),
(iv)
Perennial and intermittent streams,
(v)
Mapping of predominant soils from USDA soil surveys,
(vi)
Boundaries of existing predominant vegetation and proposed limits of clearing and grading,
(vii)
Approximate location and boundaries of other natural feature protection and conservation areas such as wetlands, lakes, ponds, floodplains, stream buffers and other setbacks (e.g., drinking water well setbacks, septic setbacks, etc.),
(viii)
Location of existing and proposed roads, buildings, parking areas and other impervious surfaces,
(ix)
Existing and proposed accommodations for utilities (e.g., water, sewer, gas, electric),
(x)
Preliminary selection and location, size, and limits of disturbance of proposed BMPs,
(xi)
Location of existing and proposed conveyance systems such as grass channels, swales, and storm drains,
(xii)
Location of the boundaries of the base flood floodplain, future- conditions floodplain, and the floodway (as applicable) and relationship of site to upstream and downstream properties and drainage, and
(xiii)
Preliminary location of proposed channel modifications, such as bridge or culvert crossings.
d.
The stormwater management plan shall contain the items listed in this part and be prepared and certified by a qualified professional licensed in the State of Georgia. Items (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) shall be sealed and signed by a registered professional engineer licensed in the state of Georgia. The overall site plan must be stamped by a design professional licensed in the State of Georgia for such purpose.
(i)
Natural Resources Inventory.
(ii)
Stormwater Concept Plan.
(iii)
Existing Conditions Hydrologic Analysis. For any stormwater analysis, the composite "C" (Rational Method) or CN (SCS Method) used for analysis of pre-development conditions shall be consistent with those shown in the Gwinnett County Stormwater Management Manual.
(iv)
Post-Development Hydrologic Analysis. Analysis of the off-site properties shall anticipate future development in addition to addressing existing conditions.
(v)
Stormwater Management System.
(vi)
Downstream Analysis. For the purposes of these regulations, the words "downstream" and "analysis" shall have the following meanings. The analysis of downstream conditions in the report shall address each and every point or area along the project site's boundaries at which runoff will exit the property. The analysis shall focus on the portion of the drainage way "immediately" downstream from the project. This area shall extend downstream from the project to a point in the drainage basin where the project area is 10 per- cent of the total basin area. The analysis shall be in accordance with the Gwinnett County Stormwater Management Manual.
(vii)
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan. (See Section 109 Article III, Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control ordinance)
(viii)
BMP Landscaping Plan prepared by a registered professional.
(ix)
Inspection and Maintenance Agreement.
(x)
Evidence of Acquisition of Applicable Local and Non-Local Permits.
(xi)
Determination of Infeasibility (if applicable).
e.
For redevelopment and to the extent existing stormwater management structures are being used to meet stormwater management standards, the following must also be included in the stormwater management plan for existing stormwater management structures.
(i)
As-built Drawings.
(a)
A new survey, drawing and certification showing that the outlet structure is constructed as approved, will function as designed, and the flood storage and water quality volume of the facility is equal to or greater than the volume required when the facility was approved.
(ii)
Hydrology Reports.
(iii)
Current inspection of existing stormwater management structures with deficiencies noted.
(iv)
BMP Landscaping Plans if required at time of BMP construction.
8.2.8
Application Fee. The fee for review of any land development application shall be based on the fee structure established by the City of Lilburn and payment shall be made at the time of application or building permit for the development.
8.2.9
Application Procedures. Land development applications and permit shall be obtained pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance Article 12 and the Development Regulations, or a building permit shall be obtained per Zoning Ordinance Section 1202, and the Development Regulations Article 4. Before any person begins development on a site, the owner of the site shall first obtain approval in accordance with the following procedure:
a.
Submit a land development permit application to the City of Lilburn on the city's application form with the following supporting materials:
(i)
the stormwater management plan prepared in accordance with Section 8.2.7 (d),
(ii)
a certification that the development will be performed in accordance with the stormwater management plan once approved,
(iii)
a Preliminary Determination of Infeasibility, as applicable, prepared in accordance with the practicability policy], and
(iv)
an acknowledgement that the applicant has reviewed the City of Lilburn's Inspection and Maintenance Agreement and that applicant agrees to sign and record such Inspection and Maintenance Agreement before the Certificate of Occupancy/Approval.
b.
The administrator shall inform the applicant whether the application and supporting materials are complete and approved or incomplete or denied or disapproved.
c.
If the application or supporting materials are disapproved, the administrator shall notify the applicant of such fact in writing. The applicant may then revise any item(s) not meeting the requirements hereof and resubmit the same for the administrator to again consider and either approve or disapprove.
d.
If the application and supporting materials are approved, the City of Lilburn may issue the associated land disturbance permit or building permit, provided all other legal requirements for the issuance of such permits have been met including acquisition of all applicable non-local permits and Gwinnett County approvals. The stormwater management plan included in such applications becomes the approved stormwater management plan.
8.2.10
Compliance with the Approved Stormwater Management Plan. All development shall be:
a.
consistent with the approved stormwater management plan and all applicable land disturbance and building permits, and
b.
conducted only within the area specified in the approved stormwater management plan.
No changes may be made to an approved stormwater management plan without review and advanced written approval by the administrator.
8.2.11
Inspections to Ensure Plan Compliance During Construction. Periodic inspections of the stormwater management system during construction shall be conducted by the staff of the City of Lilburn or conducted and certified by a professional engineer or a Level 2B certified third party inspector who has been approved by the City of Lilburn. Inspections shall use the approved stormwater management plan for establishing compliance. All inspections shall be documented with written reports that contain the following information:
a.
The date and location of the inspection;
b.
Whether the stormwater management system is in compliance with the approved stormwater management plan;
c.
Variations from the approved stormwater management plan; and
d.
Any other variations or violations of the conditions of the approved stormwater management plan.
8.2.12
Final Inspection; As-Built Drawings, Delivery of Inspection and Maintenance Agreement. Upon completion of the development, the applicant is responsible for:
a.
Certifying that the stormwater management system is functioning properly and was constructed in conformance with the approved stormwater management plan and associated hydrologic analysis.
The required certification under part (a) shall include a certification of volume, or other performance test applicable to the type of stormwater management system component, to ensure each component is functioning as designed and built according to the design specifications in the approved stormwater management plan. This certification and the required performance tests shall be performed by a qualified person and submitted to the City of Lilburn with the request for a final inspection. The City of Lilburn shall perform a final inspection with applicant to confirm applicant has fulfilled these responsibilities.
b.
Submitting as-built drawings showing the final design specifications for all components of the stormwater management system(s) as certified by a professional engineer. A certified record survey of each facility shall be prepared by an authorized professional currently registered in the State of Georgia. A certified record drawing of the facility/facilities shall be prepared based upon this survey. The authorized registered professional shall certify that the facility/facilities functions hydraulically as designed. Documentation demonstrating the required testing outlined in the Gwinnett County Stormwater Management Manual for the proposed stormwater BMP shall also be provided. The record drawing shall be submitted to the Department at least three weeks prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy, Certificate of Approval or Final Plat approval (as appropriate for the project). Record drawings of off-site facilities shall be recorded at least one week prior to the recording of the Final Plat.
c.
Certifying that the landscaping is established and installed in conformance with the BMP landscaping plan, and
d.
Delivering to City of Lilburn a signed inspection and maintenance agreement for review by the city. Once approved, the maintenance agreement shall be recorded by the owner in the property record for all parcel(s). Documents shall be recorded at the Gwinnett County Clerk of Superior Court's office.
8.2.13
Violations and Enforcement. Any violation of the approved stormwater management plan during construction, failure to submit as-built drawings, failure to submit a final BMP landscaping plan, or failure of the final inspection shall constitute and be addressed as violations of, or failures to comply with, the underlying land disturbance permit pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance Article 13 and Development Regulations Article 13 or the underlying building permit. To address a violation of this Article, the City of Lilburn shall have all the powers and remedies that are available to it for other violations of building and land disturbance permits, including without limitation the right to issue notices and orders to ensure compliance, stop work orders, and penalties as set forth in the applicable ordinances for such permits.
8.2.14
Maintenance by Owner of Stormwater Management Systems Predating Current GCSMM. For any stormwater management systems approved and built based on requirements predating the current GCSMM and that is not otherwise subject to an inspection and maintenance agreement, such stormwater management systems shall be maintained by the owner so that the stormwater management systems perform as they were originally designed.
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain the operational characteristics of any facility constructed on their property for storm water management pursuant to City requirements, to keep the access drive free of obstructions, and to maintain the facility free of obstruction, silt or debris.
8.2.15
Inspection and Maintenance Agreements.
a.
The owner shall execute an inspection and maintenance agreement with the City of Lilburn obligating the owner to inspect, clean, maintain, and repair the stormwater management system; including vegetation in the final BMP landscaping plan. The form of the inspection and maintenance agreement shall be the form provided by the City of Lilburn. After the inspection and maintenance agreement has been signed by the owner and reviewed and approved by the City of Lilburn, the owner shall promptly record such agreement at the owner's cost in the property record for all parcel(s) that make up the site. The document shall be recorded at the Gwinnett County Clerk of Superior Courts' office. A copy of the recorded inspection and maintenance agreement shall be provided to the City of Lilburn.
b.
The inspection and maintenance agreement shall identify by name or official title the person(s) serving as the point of contact for carrying out the owner's obligations under the inspection and maintenance agreement. The owner shall update the point of contact from time to time as needed and upon request by the City of Lilburn.
c.
The inspection and maintenance agreement shall run with the land and bind all future successors-in-title of the site. If there is a future sale or transfer of only a portion of the site, then:
(i)
The parties to such sale or transfer may enter into and record an assignment agreement designating the owner responsible for each portion of the site and associated obligations under the inspection and maintenance agreement. The parties shall record and provide written notice and a copy of such assignment agreement to the City of Lilburn.
(ii)
In the absence of a recorded assignment agreement, all owners of the site shall be jointly and severally liable for all obligations under the inspection and maintenance agreement regardless of what portion of the site they own.
8.2.16
Right of Entry for Maintenance Inspections. The terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement shall provide for the City of Lilburn's right of entry for maintenance inspections and other specified purposes. If a site was developed before the requirement to have an inspection and maintenance agreement or an inspection and maintenance agreement was for any reason not entered into, recorded, or has otherwise been invalidated or deemed insufficient, then the City of Lilburn shall have the right to enter and make inspections pursuant to the City of Lilburn's general provisions for property maintenance inspections pursuant to Chapter 105, Article III.
8.2.17
Owner's Failure to Maintain the Stormwater Management System. The terms of the inspection and maintenance agreement shall provide for what constitutes a failure to maintain a stormwater management system and the enforcement options available to the City of Lilburn. If a site was developed before the requirement to have an inspection and maintenance agreement or an inspection and maintenance agreement was for any reason not entered into, recorded, or has otherwise been invalidated or deemed insufficient, then:
a.
An owner's failure to maintain the stormwater management system so that it performs as it was originally designed shall constitute and be addressed as a violation of, or failure to comply with, owner's property maintenance obligations pursuant to Article III Property Maintenance.
b.
To address such a failure to maintain the stormwater management system, the City of Lilburn shall have all the powers and remedies that are available to it for other violations of an owner's property maintenance obligations, including without limitation prosecution, penalties, abatement, and emergency measures.
8.2.18
Stormwater BMPs Location and Easement Criteria not otherwise provided for in the GCSMM:
a.
A non-residential subdivision is not required to locate an on-site stormwater management facility on a separate lot. The property owners served by a stormwater management facility that meets the stormwater standards for more than one property owner or is located off-site shall enter into a maintenance agreement acceptable to the city for the facility's maintenance. However, if desired by the developer, the facility may be located on a separate lot if it is owned and maintained by a mandatory property owners' association.
b.
Stormwater management facilities may be located within utility easements or rights-of-way, or encroach upon utility easements or rights-of-way, upon receipt by the Department of written permission from both the property and utility owners.
c.
If a single family detached residential development is provided with an on-site stormwater management facility, a mandatory homeowners association shall be established for its ownership and maintenance. The facilities shall be located on a single lot within the development and owned by the homeowners' association. If the project is provided with an off-site stormwater management facility, a mandatory property owners' association shall be established for its maintenance. The association bylaws shall be recorded concurrently with the recording of a final subdivision plat.
d.
No portion of any stormwater management facility shall disturb any required (as opposed to voluntary) buffer, landscape strip, or tree protection area.
e.
No portion of a private stormwater management facility shall not encroach upon a public right-of-way.
f.
A stormwater management facility may be located within or encroach upon a floodplain in accordance with the Floodplain Management Ordinance.
g.
In a non-residential subdivision or project, an access easement at least 20 feet in width shall be required to provide access to all storm water management facilities from a public street.
h.
In a residential subdivision, an easement at least 20 feet in width shall be required to provide access to all detention/retention facilities from a public street
i.
All other stormwater BMPs access easement requirements shall, at a minimum, meet the requirements outlined in the GCSMM.
j.
The following stormwater BMP's must be located on a separate lot, owned by the HOA, if not located in a common or recreation area and within an access and maintenance easement:
(i)
Bio-retention Areas;
(ii)
Dry/Dry Extended Ponds;
(iii)
Stormwater Ponds;
(iv)
Stormwater Wetlands;
(v)
Submerged Gravel Wetlands;
(vi)
Underground Detention;
(vii)
Multi-purpose Detention Areas.
8.2.19
Stormwater Conveyance Facilities. Stormwater conveyance facilities, which may include buy are not limited to culverts, storm drainage pipes, catch basins, drop inlets, junction boxes, headwalls, gutters, swales, channels, and ditches, shall be provided for the protection of public rights-of-way and private properties adjoining projects sites and/or public rights-of-way.
a.
Standard specifications. Unless otherwise specifically set forth herein or in the Gwinnett County's Pipe Standards and/or Gwinnett County Stormwater Management Manual, all of the materials, methods of the construction, and workmanship for the work covered in reference to stormwater conveyance facility construction shall conform to the most recent Standard Specifications of the Georgia Department of Transportation (Georgia DOT).
( Ord. No. 2020-557 , Att. A, 11-9-2020)
ARTICLE 10. - PLAN AND PLAT SPECIFICATIONS

Sec. 10.1. - Concept Plan Specifications.
The following paragraphs outline the required elements of both the required and optional plans and plats mentioned throughout these Regulations, and especially in Articles 4 and 11.
10.1.1
The Concept Plan for a subdivision or site development shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of not less than 100 feet to one inch. Sheet size shall not exceed 48 inches by 36 inches, provided, however, a scale of 200 feet to one inch may be used to avoid sheets in excess of 48 inches by 36 inches. The Director may approve other scales and sheet sizes as deemed appropriate.
10.1.2
The Concept Plan may be prepared as a freehand drawing to approximate scale of the proposed improvements, right-of-way, lot lines, etc., shown on a boundary survey or other property outline map of the property.
10.1.3
The Concept Plan shall contain the following:
a.
Approximate total acreage.
b.
Proposed total number of lots and minimum lot size.
c.
Size and location of adjoining existing streets or access drives and proposed rights-of-way, roadways, and access drives.
d.
For multi-family and nonresidential site developments (not subdivisions), the approximate location and arrangement of buildings, parking areas, and other improvements including storm water detention areas, and all required buffers.
e.
Topography with contour intervals no greater than ten feet.
f.
Proposed method of sewage disposal (expressed as a note).
g.
Boundary lines of the overall property showing bearings and distances along all lines and the bearings and distance to an existing street intersection or other recognized permanent landmark. The source of said boundary information shall be indicated.
h.
All contiguous property under the ownership or control of the developer, except those lands of a dissimilar zoning category specifically approved to be excluded by the Department. Areas not planned at the time of the submittal shall be shown as "Future Development".
_____
i.
Authorization statement on Concept Plan to read as follows:
I hereby submit this Concept Plan as authorized agent/owner of all property shown thereon, and certify that all contiguous property under my ownership or control is included within the boundaries of this Concept Plan, as required by the Development Regulations.
EXPAND
_____ _____
Signature of Authorized Agent/Owner Date
  j.
Location sketch (vicinity map).
k.
Lakes, ponds, and flood plains and the source of floodplain data including the panel number of flood insurance rate maps.
l.
Required recreation areas, and other public areas to be dedicated to the public or held in common ownership by a homeowner association or other similar entity.
m.
Existing zoning of the property and adjoining properties.
n.
Land lot and district.
o.
Subdivider's name, local, and permanent (if different) address and phone number.
p.
Name of company or person who prepared Plan, local and permanent (if different) address, and phone number.
q.
Boundaries of the Chattahoochee River Corridor and Chattahoochee River Tributary Protection Areas, if applicable to the property.
r.
General development data (in tabular form) for individual multi-family or nonresidential site developments, such as number of residential units, number of gross square feet of nonresidential floor area by building, number of parking spaces, number of stories, etc.
s.
General development data (in tabular form) for single family developments, such as minimum lot size, floor area, and all relevant conditions of zoning.
_____
t.
Signature block to read as follows:
This Concept Plan has been reviewed and approved for general compliance with the Zoning Resolution and Development Regulations of Gwinnett County, Georgia.
EXPAND
_____ _____
Director, Department of Planning and Development Date
  Sec. 10.2. - Subdivision Development Plans.
10.2.1
An application for a development permit for a subdivision shall consist of the Preliminary Plat, a certified boundary survey, associated slope or construction easements (if any), and such other Development Plans as may be required by these Regulations.
10.2.2
The Development Plans shall generally conform to the Concept Plan, if any, and may constitute only that portion of the approved Concept Plan which the subdivider proposes to construct at one time as a single unit, provided that such portion conforms to the requirements of these rules and regulations. If no Concept Plan was approved on the property, the Development Plans shall include the entire property being developed within the same zoning category.
10.2.3
Scale
The Development Plans shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of not less than 100 feet to one inch. Sheet size shall not exceed 48 inches by 36 inches. Plan and Profile sheets shall have a horizontal scale of no less than 100 feet to one inch and a vertical scale of no less than ten feet to one inch.
10.2.4
Certified Boundary Survey
a.
The Preliminary Plat shall be based on a certified boundary survey delineating the entirety of the property contained within the Preliminary Plat, and tied to a point of reference (tie point) with the same degree of accuracy as the boundary survey itself. The survey shall have an accuracy of no less than one in 10,000, and shall meet all requirements of Georgia Law regarding the recording of maps and plats.
b.
Each Preliminary Plat shall be drawn on, accompanied by, or referenced to a boundary survey which shall at least meet the requirements of 10.2.4, a above.
10.2.5
The Preliminary Plat shall contain the following:
a.
Proposed name of subdivision.
b.
Name, address, and telephone number of the owner of record, and of the subdivider (if not the owner).
c.
Name, address, and telephone number of each professional firm associated with the Development Plans (engineer, surveyor, landscape architect, etc.).
d.
Date of survey, north point, and graphic scale, source of vertical datum, date of plat drawing, and space for revision dates.
e.
Proposed use of the site, such as single-family detached residences, duplexes, townhouses, office park, industrial subdivision, etc. For residential, indicate total number of dwelling units within plat.
f.
Location (Land District and Land Lot), acreage, and density (if applicable).
g.
Location sketch locating the subdivision in relation to the surrounding area with regard to well known landmarks such as major thoroughfares or railroads. Sketches may be drawn in freehand and at a scale sufficient to show clearly the information required, but not less than one inch equal to 2,000 feet. U. S. Geological Survey maps may be used as a reference guide for the location sketch.
h.
Name of former subdivision if any or all of the land in the Preliminary Plat has been previously subdivided, showing boundaries of same.
i.
Boundary lines of the perimeter of the tract indicated by a heavy line giving lengths in feet and hundredths of a foot, and bearings in degrees, minutes, and seconds. Bearing and distance to designated tie point.
j.
Directional flow arrows for street drainage.
k.
Contour lines based on sea level datum, or other datum acceptable to the Department. These shall be drawn at intervals of not more than two feet. Contour lines shall be based on field surveys or photogrammetric methods from aerial photographs. The basis for the topographic contour shown shall be specified and dated.
l.
Natural features within the proposed subdivision, including drainage channels, bodies of water, and other known significant features such as extensive exposed rock. On all water courses leaving the tract, the direction of flow shall be indicated. The 100-year floodplain shall be outlined and the source of the depicted floodplain information shall be indicated. For those lots containing floodplain, a Floodplain Lot Chart shall be provided showing the area (in square feet) of each lot lying inside and outside of the floodplain as though the land disturbance activity were completed.
m.
Man-made and cultural features existing within and adjacent to the proposed subdivision including existing right-of-way measured from centerline, pavement widths, and names of existing and platted streets; all easements, city, and County jurisdiction lines; existing structures on the site and their disposition, Chattahoochee River Corridor information and limits of Chattahoochee River Tributary Protection Area (if applicable), and other significant information. Location and dimensions of existing bridges; water, sewer, and other existing utility lines and structures; culverts and other existing features should be indicated.
n.
Proposed layout including lot lines, lot numbers, and block letters; proposed street names, roadway and right-of-way lines; and, sites reserved through covenants, easement, dedication, or otherwise for public uses. Lots shall be numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically. The minimum building setback line from all streets. Streets shall be dimensioned to show right-of-way and roadway widths, central angles, intersection radii, and cul-de-sac roadway and right-of-way radii. Centerline curve data shall be provided for all roadway curves [radius, length, amount of superelevation (if any), point of curvature (P.C.), point of tangency (P.T.), etc.] if not shown separately on construction drawings.
o.
Identify unit number, division, or stage of development, if any, as proposed by the subdivider.
p.
Existing zoning of the property. Rezoning and variance case numbers, dates of approval and conditions (as applicable). Note minimum lot size and minimum yard setback requirements, and other applicable zoning requirements. Show and dimension any required buffers, landscape strips, no-access easements, etc. Note any approved Waivers from these Regulations.
q.
All adjoining property owners, subdivision names, lot numbers and lot lines, block letters, and zoning.
r.
Location of all known existing or previously existing landfills.
s.
Proposed recreation area, if any; area of the site; area and percent of site within the 100-year floodplain; proposed disposition of the site (public ownership, homeowners association, etc.).
t.
Such additional information as may be reasonably required to permit an adequate evaluation of the subdivision.
10.2.6
Certificate of Development Plans Approval
Each Preliminary Plat shall carry the following certificate printed or stamped thereon:
All requirements of the Gwinnett County Development Regulations relative to the preparation and submission of a subdivision development permit application having been fulfilled, and said application and all supporting plans and data having been reviewed and approved by all affected County Departments as required under their respective and applicable regulations, approval is hereby granted, of this Preliminary Plat and all other development plans associated with this subdivision, subject to all further provisions of said Development and other County existing Regulations.
EXPAND
_____ _____
Director, Department of Planning and Development Date
  THIS CERTIFICATE EXPIRES TWELVE MONTHS FROM THE DATE OF APPROVAL UNLESS A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT IS ISSUED
NOTE: The boundaries of the lots shown on this Plat have not been surveyed. This Plat is not for recording.
10.2.7
The Preliminary Plat shall be accompanied by other Development Plans showing the following information when same is not shown on, or evident from the Preliminary Plat. The various plans may be combined where appropriate and clarity can be maintained.
a.
Erosion Control Plan prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance. Erosion control measures may be shown on the Grading Plan, if desired.
b.
Grading Plan prepared in accordance with the requirements of Article 8 of these Regulations if grading is proposed beyond the street right-of-way.
c.
Storm Water Drainage Construction Data:
(1)
Location and size of all proposed drainage structures, including detention ponds, catch basins, grates, headwalls, pipes and any extensions thereof, energy dissipaters, improved channels, and all proposed drainage easements to be located outside street right-of-way lines.
(2)
Profiles of all storm drainage pipes and slope of receiving channels. On storm drainage profiles a pipe chart will be shown which will include pipe numbers, pipe size, pipe material, pipe slope, Mannings' normal flow friction slope for the ten-year storm flow for cross drains and the 25-year storm flow for all other pipe collection systems. On all pipes which drain into detention ponds or floodplains, the hydraulic grade line will be shown from the pond or floodplain to the nearest catch basin, grated inlet or yard inlet. The hydraulic grade line will begin at the calculated ten or 25-year storm storage elevation depending on the pipe collection system. On all outfall structures from detention ponds the hydraulic grade line will be shown for the 100-year storm.
(3)
Profiles of all open channels and ditches including Mannings' 25-year storm normal depth and velocity."
(4)
Hydrological study used in determining size of structures, including map of all contributing drainage basins and acreages.
d.
If sanitary sewers are required by Water Pollution Control, Sanitary Sewer Plans, including the location and size of all proposed sewer lines, manholes, and any easements required therefor, together with sufficient dimensions to locate same on the ground.
e.
Construction Data for New Streets and Street Widenings:
(1)
Centerline profiles and typical roadway sections of all proposed streets, as well as plans and profiles for all proposed major thoroughfares. Typical roadway sections shall be provided for street widenings.
(2)
Where sanitary or storm sewers are to be installed within a street, the grade; size, location, and bedding class of pipe; location and invert elevation of manholes shall be indicated on the road profile.
(3)
Profiles covering roadways that are extensions of existing roadways shall include: elevations at 50 foot intervals for such distance as may be adequate to provide continuity consistent with the standards required by the Regulations for street improvements, but no less than 200 feet.
(4)
All elevations shall be coordinated and tied into U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey or Department of Transportation bench marks where feasible, or into reference monuments established by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(5)
Stub streets shall be profiled at least 200 feet onto adjoining property (no tree cutting).
f.
Buffer and Landscape Plan, if any such areas exist within the subdivision, prepared in accordance with the specifications under this Article and the requirements of Article 5 of these Regulations.
g.
Tree Protection Plan (if required by the Tree Protection Ordinance).
h.
Floodplain Management Plans. If any floodplain areas are located on the property, such data as is required by the Floodplain Management Ordinance of these Regulations shall be submitted.
10.2.8
Encroachments
Where construction is proposed on adjacent property, an encroachment agreement or easement shall be submitted to the Department.
Sec. 10.3. - Final Plat Specifications.
10.3.1
The Final Plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in black ink on tracing cloth or other permanent reproducible material. The scale of the Final Plat shall be 100 feet to one inch (one inch equals 100 feet) or larger. Sheet size shall not exceed 48 inches by 36 inches. (Any sheet that is larger than 17 inches by 22 inches must be photographically reduced to no more than 17 inches by 22 inches in order to be recorded with the Clerk of the Superior Court.)
10.3.2
The Final Plat shall be based on a certified boundary survey delimiting the entirety of the property contained within the Final Plat, and tied to a point of reference (tie point) with the same degree of accuracy as the boundary survey itself. The survey shall have an accuracy of no less than one in 10,000, and shall meet all requirements of Georgia Law regarding the recording of maps and plats.
10.3.3
The Final Plat shall substantially conform to the Preliminary Plat and it may constitute only that portion of the approved Preliminary Plat which the subdivider proposes to record at any one time, provided that such portion conforms to the requirements of these Regulations, and said portion is not inconsistent with the public health, safety, or welfare. Any substantial deviation from the Preliminary Plat shall require revision and reapproval of the Preliminary Plat.
10.3.4
The Final Plat shall contain the following information:
a.
Name of the subdivision, unit number, Land District, and Land Lot number.
b.
Name, address, and telephone number of owner of record, and the subdivider (if not the owner).
c.
Name, address, and telephone number of each professional firm associated with the portion of the subdivision within the Final Plat (engineer, surveyor, landscape architect, etc.).
d.
Date of plat drawing, graphic scale, north point; notation as to the reference of bearings to magnetic, true north or grid north, and indication whether bearings shown are calculated from angles turned.
e.
Location sketch of tract showing major surrounding features.
f.
Name of former subdivision, if any or all of the Final Plat has been previously recorded.
g.
Case number and date of approval for any applicable rezoning, Special Use Permit, Variance or Waiver affecting the property.
h.
Location and dimension of any buffer, landscape strip, special setback, no-access easement, etc., required by the Zoning Resolution or these Regulations.
i.
Boundary lines of the tract, to be indicated by a heavy line, giving distances to the nearest one-hundredth foot and bearings to the nearest second. Bearing and distance to designated tie point shall be shown. The Plat shall have a closure precision of one foot in no less than 10,000 feet.
j.
Municipal or County jurisdictional lines approximately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distance and angles when such lines traverse or adjoin the subdivision; land lot lines traversing or adjoining the subdivision shall also be indicated.
k.
Locations, widths, and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat, the location and widths of all internal public crosswalks, and all other public rights-of-way.
l.
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection and standard curve data including radii, length of arcs and tangents between curves, point of curvature (P.C.) and point of tangency (P.T.).
m.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth of a foot and bearings to the nearest second, and radii of rounded corners, as necessary to delimit each lot.
n.
Building setback lines along streets with dimensions.
o.
When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at angles other than 90 degrees, the lot width measured in accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Resolution may be required to be shown, if deemed necessary by the Department for clarity.
p.
Lots numbered in numerical order and blocks lettered alphabetically.
q.
Location and size of all drainage pipe, location and extent of detention ponds, the location and size of all public water mains and fire hydrants, and the location, dimensions, and purpose of any easements, including construction or slope easements if required.
r.
Location of any areas to be reserved, donated, or dedicated to public use with notes stating their purpose and limitations. Location of any areas to be reserved by private deed covenant for common use of all property owners, or dedicated to a homeowner's association.
s.
A statement of private covenants if any, and they are brief enough to be put directly on the plat; otherwise, if covenants are separately recorded, a statement as follows:
This plat is subject to the covenants set forth in the separate document(s) attached hereto dated ________, which hereby become a part of this plat, and which were recorded ________ and signed by the owner.
t.
Accurate location, material, and description of monuments and markers. (All monuments shall be in place prior to approval of the Final Plat.)
u.
Certificates and statements specified in these Regulations, below.
v.
All information required under the Georgia Metropolitan River Protection Act for recording of plats, if applicable.
w.
Extent of the 100-year floodplain and a floodplain chart showing the area within and outside of the floodplain for each lot containing any portion of the 100-year floodplain. Origin of the floodplain data shall be indicated.
x.
Street address numbers and block number designations for street name signs on abutting streets, where appropriate.
y.
Individual lots shall be designated HLP (House Location Plan), RDP (Residential Drainage Plan) and/or RDS (Residential Drainage Study) if such are required by the Department to be approved prior to issuance of a building permit.
z.
All other notes or notations as may be required by the Department.
10.3.5
If any lands are shown as the Final Plat for dedication to Gwinnett County other than street rights-of-way or easements, a Warranty Deed transferring title to said land in fee simple, in a form acceptable to the Director, shall be submitted with the Final Plat application.
10.3.6
If any lands are shown on the Final Plat for dedication to a Property Owners Association in order to meet minimum park or open space requirements of these Regulations, a copy of the deed of transfer for such dedication and a copy of the instrument of incorporation of the Property Owners Association shall be submitted with the Final Plat application.
10.3.7
Each Final Plat shall carry the following certificates or statements printed or stamped thereon as follows:
a.
Final Surveyor's Certificate:
It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct as to the property lines and all improvements shown thereon, and was prepared from an actual survey of the property made by me or under my supervision; that all monuments shown hereon actually exist, and their location, size, type, and material are correctly shown. The field data upon which this plat is based has a closure precision of one foot in _____ feet and an angular error of _____ per angle point, and was adjusted using _____ rule. This plat has been calculated for closure and is found to be accurate within one foot in _____ feet, and contains a total of _____ acres. The equipment used to obtain the linear and angular measurements herein was _______ _______.
BY: ___________
REGISTERED GEORGIA LAND SURVEYOR
REG NO _____ DATE OF EXPIRATION ________
_____
b.
Owners Acknowledgment and Declaration:
STATE OF GEORGIA, CITY OF LILBURN
The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed thereto, in person or through a duly authorized agent, acknowledges that this plat was made from an actual survey, and dedicates by this Acknowledgement and Declaration to the use of the public forever all streets, sewer collectors, lift stations, drains, easements, and other public facilities and appurtenances thereon shown.
EXPAND
_____
SIGNATURE OF SUBDIVIDER _____
DATE SIGNED
_____
PRINTED OR TYPED NAME OF SUBDIVIDER
_____
SIGNATURE OF OWNER _____
DATE SIGNED
_____
PRINTED OR TYPED NAME OF OWNER
  c.
Final Plat Approval:
The Director of the Department of Planning & Development or designee certifies that this plat complies with the City of Lilburn Zoning Resolution, and the City of Lilburn Development Regulations, and that it has been approved by all other operational city departments, as appropriate. This plat is approved, subject to the provisions and requirements of the Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement executed for this project between the Owner and the City of Lilburn.
DATED THIS _____ DAY OF ________, 20___.
_____
DIRECTOR, DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT
d.
Health Department Certification (for Subdivisions Served by Septic Tanks):
The lots shown hereon have been reviewed by the Gwinnett County Health Department and with the exception of lots _____ are approved for development. Each lot is to be reviewed by the Gwinnett County Health Department and approved for septic tank installation prior to the issuance of a building permit.
DATE THIS _____ DAY OF ________, 20___
BY: _____
TITLE: _____
GWINNETT COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT
e.
Public Notice - Drainage. Every Final Plat shall contain the following statement:
Note: Gwinnett County assumes no responsibility for overflow or erosion of natural or artificial drains beyond the extent of the street right-of-way, or for the extension of culverts beyond the point shown on the approved and recorded subdivision plat.
f.
R-ZT and R-TH Fee-Simple Layout Plan. Every Final Plat for a subdivision zoned R-ZT (or R-TH) and proposing single-family detached houses on fee-simple ownership lots shall contain the following statement:
Note: Lot layout required on each lot to be approved by the Department prior to a building permit being issued. This lot layout plan must be drawn by a Registered Land Surveyor, architect, or other professional, or may be drawn by the builder on a certified boundary survey of the lot. It must show all proposed improvements and easements on the lot, and must also show the same information on all adjoining lots. It will be the builder's responsibility to ensure that the house is staked out on the site to match the approved lot layout plan. Prior to a Certificate of Occupancy being issued, a record drawing prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor and meeting the above requirements must be submitted for approval.
g.
House Location Plans (HLP). On any Final Plat containing a lot for which a House Location Plan approval will first be required prior to issuance of a building permit, the following statement shall be included:
HLP - HOUSE LOCATION PLAN
A House Location Plan shall be required to be approved by the Department prior to issuance of a Building Permit on those lots labeled "HLP." A House Location Plan is a scale drawing submitted by the builder at the time of permit. It is not required that this plan be prepared by a land surveyor or professional engineer. The purpose of this plan is to ensure that the house is properly located on the lot. Please refer to the Gwinnett County Development Regulations or contact the Gwinnett County Department Planning and Development for further information.
h.
Residential Drainage Plan (RDP) or Study (RDS): On any Final Plat containing a lot for which a Residential Drainage Plan (RDP) or Residential Drainage Study (RDS) will first be required prior to issuance of a Building Permit, the following statement shall be included, as applicable:
RDP - RESIDENTIAL DRAINAGE PLAN
RDS - RESIDENTIAL DRAINAGE STUDY
A Residential Drainage Plan or Residential Drainage Study must be approved by the City's Storm Water Management engineers prior to issuance of a Building Permit on those lots labeled "RDP" or "RDS", respectively. Please refer to the City of Lilburn Development Regulations and contact the City of Lilburn for further information.
i)
I ___________ the developer certify that there are/is not construction or other trash or debris buried or left on site. Furthermore that the required dumpsters were used during construction and have been removed.
signed _____ dated _____
(Ord. No. 113-04, 3-8-2004)
Sec. 10.4. - House Location Plan (HLP).
(Please refer to Section 9.2 of these Regulations for why an HLP may be required.)
10.4.1
House Location Plans shall be drawn to scale and may be shown on a certified boundary survey of the lot or any other drawing showing the information required below. The Department may accept a House Location Plan drawn to the same scale as shown on the Final Plat where sufficient detail can be shown to support an adequate review and approval. The House Location Plan may be combined with a Residential Drainage Plan (RDP) if an RDP is required for the lot.
10.4.2
It is not the intent of the Department that the House Location Plan be prepared by a registered surveyor or engineer, but may be done by the individual proposing the improvements on the lot. It is the intent, however, to receive a drawing with sufficient readability and accuracy to ensure that the proposed improvements will be constructed on the lot in conformance with the requirements of these Regulations, the Zoning Resolution, or other regulations, as applicable.
10.4.3
House Location Plans shall show the following as applicable:
a.
Boundary lines of the lot, giving distances to the nearest one-tenth of a foot and bearings to the nearest minute.
b.
Location and names of all abutting streets or other rights-of-way.
c.
Minimum required front, side, and rear building setback lines with dimensions, and notation of the existing zoning on the property.
d.
The approximate outline of all buildings, driveways, parking areas, swimming pools, recreational courts, patios, accessory structures and other improvements existing or proposed on the property, and dimensions of buildings and distances between all structures and the nearest property lines.
e.
All easements, public water, sewer or storm drainage facilities traversing or located on the property, septic tank, and septic tank drain field.
f.
Subdivision name, lot designation, land lot, and district.
g.
North arrow and scale.
h.
Limit of the 100-year floodplain and any applicable buffers or special building setback lines.
i.
If the lot is located within the Chattahoochee River Corridor, the location of each area by vulnerability category and calculations of impervious surface and clearance by category, or other such data in accordance with the Certification for the subdivision approved under the Metropolitan River Protection Act. Show also any buffer or setback required by the Metropolitan River Protection Act.
j.
All other applicable requirements of the Zoning Resolution or conditions of zoning approval.
k.
Name, address, and telephone number of the owner and the person who prepared the HLP.
10.4.4
If a lot is located in the Chattahoochee River Corridor, a Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued for the structure or other improvements until conformance to the provisions or other requirements of the House Location Plan have been field verified by a survey prepared by the builder's surveyor and submitted to the Department of Planning & Development.
(Ord. No. 113-04, 3-8-2004)
Sec. 10.5. - Residential Drainage Plan (RDP) Or Study (RDS).
(Please refer to Section 9.2 of these Regulations for why an RDP may be required.)
10.5.1
Residential Drainage Plans shall be drawn to scale on a certified boundary survey of the lot prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor, having an error of closure not exceeding one in 5000. The Residential Drainage Plan may be combined with a House Location Plan (HLP) if an HLP is required for the lot. The requirements contained herein shall also apply to lots which formerly required SPED (Site Plan - Engineering Division) approval prior to issuance of a building permit.
10.5.2
Residential Drainage Plans shall show the following as applicable:
a.
Boundary lines of the lot, giving distances to the nearest one-tenth of a foot and bearings to the nearest minute.
b.
Location and names of all abutting streets or other rights-of-way.
c.
The outline of all buildings, driveways, parking areas, swimming pools, recreational courts, patios, accessory structures and other improvements existing or proposed on the property, and dimensions of buildings and distances between all structures and the nearest property lines as required to locate the major improvements on the lot.
d.
All easements, public water or sewer facilities traversing or located on the property, and septic tank drain field.
e.
Subdivision name, lot designation, land lot, and district.
f.
North arrow and scale.
g.
Contour lines based on sea level datum. These shall be drawn at intervals of not more than two feet, and shall be based on a field survey. Proposed grading of the lot shall be shown along with the finished floor elevation of the lowest habitable floor of the house.
h.
Storm water features, including swales, pipes, storm water detention and other structures, all drainage (D.E.) easements, and directions of flow.
i.
Floodplain features, including the limits of the flood hazard area, 100-year flood high water elevation, origin of the floodplain data, and any proposed modifications to the floodplain limits.
j.
Sedimentation and erosion control measures to be taken or placed on the lot during construction.
k.
Name, address, and telephone number of the owner and person who prepared the RDP.
l.
Seal, registration number, and date of expiration of the Professional Engineer or Landscape Architect who prepared the drainage improvements or modifications shown on the RDP.
10.5.3
A Residential Drainage Study (RDS) shall be conducted by the developer's or builder's design professional prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy on those lots so noted on the Final Plat. The requirements for a RDS contained herein shall also apply to lots that formerly required SSED (Site Study - Engineering Division) approval prior to issuance of a Building Permit.
The grading and construction of the lot shall be field verified by the developer's or builder's design professional as being in conformance with grading plans and storm water management studies approved for the subdivision prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.
(Ord. No. 113-04, 3-8-2004)
10.5.4
A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued for the structure until a written certification has been received from the developer's or builder's design professional stating that the provisions or improvements required by the Residential Drainage Plan or as a result of the Residential Drainage Study have been field verified.
(Ord. No. 113-04, 3-8-2004)
10.5.5
If a RDP or RDS is required because a stream or floodplain is on or adjacent to the lot, the notation on the development plans and plat should be "RDP-E" or "RDS-E" as appropriate.
This Residential Drainage Plan has been reviewed for general compliance with the Zoning Resolution and Development Regulations of Gwinnett County, Georgia, and is approved for issuance of a Building Permit for the residential structure and other improvements shown hereon. [No framing inspection will be approved until a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, as built, prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor or Professional Engineer, has been received by the Department of Planning and Development.] This approval is granted with the provision that no Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued for completion of construction until conformance to this Residential Drainage Plan has been field verified by the Department or has been verified by a foundation survey prepared for the builder by a Registered Land Surveyor.
EXPAND
_____ _____
Department of Planning and Development Date
  (Ord. No. 113-04, 3-8-2004)
Sec. 10.6. - Site Development Plans.
10.6.1
An application for a development permit for a multi-family or nonresidential site shall consist of the Site Plan, a certified boundary survey or Final Plat reference, associated slope or construction easements (if any), and such other Development Plans as may be required by these Regulations.
10.6.2
The Development Plans shall generally conform to the Concept Plan, if any, and may constitute only that portion of the approved Concept Plan which the developer proposes to construct at one time as a single unit, provided that such portion conforms to the requirements of these rules and regulations and all setbacks, maximum density, and other zoning restrictions. If no Concept Plan was approved on the property, the Development Plans shall include the entire property being developed having the same zoning category.
10.6.3
Scale
The Development Plans shall be clearly and legibly drawn at an engineering scale convenient to illustrate the details of the project. Sheet size shall not exceed 48 inches by 36 inches. Plan and Profile sheets, if any, shall have a horizontal scale of no less than 100 feet to one inch and a vertical scale of no less than ten feet to one inch.
10.6.4
Project Boundary Data
a.
The Site Plan shall be based on the boundaries of a lot as recorded on a Final Subdivision Plat or on a certified boundary survey delineating the entirety of the property contained within the project, and tied to a point of reference (tie point) with the same degree of accuracy as the boundary survey itself. The survey shall have an accuracy of no less than one in 10,000, and shall meet all requirements of Georgia Law regarding the recording of maps and plats.
b.
Each Site Plan shall be drawn on, accompanied by, or referenced to a boundary survey which shall at least meet the requirements of 10.6.4.a. above.
10.6.5
The Site Plan shall contain the following (on one or more sheets):
a.
Proposed name of development. If the project is located within a subdivision, the name of the subdivision, lot, and block number must also be shown.
b.
Name, address, and telephone number of the owner of record, and of the developer (if not the owner).
c.
Name, address, and telephone number of each professional firm associated with the Development Plans (engineer, landscape architect, etc.).
d.
Date of survey, north point, and graphic scale, source of datum, date of plan drawing, and space for revision dates.
e.
Proposed use of the site, including gross square footage for each different use type or building.
f.
Location (Land District and Land Lot), acreage or area in square feet, and density (if applicable).
g.
Location sketch locating the development in relation to the surrounding area with regard to well known landmarks such as major thoroughfares or railroads. Sketches may be drawn in freehand and at a scale sufficient to show clearly the information required, but not less than one inch equal to 2,000 feet. U.S. Geological Survey maps may be used as a reference guide for the location sketch.
h.
Size and location of all buildings, building setback lines, minimum yard lines, and distances between buildings and from buildings to property lines; location of outdoor storage areas; parking and loading areas, driveways, curb cuts and designated fire lanes. Each building shall be identified with a number or letter.
i.
Boundary lines of the perimeter of the tract indicated by a heavy line giving lengths to the nearest one-hundredth of a foot and bearings to the nearest second. Bearing and distance to designated tie point.
j.
Directional flow arrows for street drainage.
k.
Contour lines based on seal level datum. These shall be drawn at intervals of not more than two feet and shall include the entire site and all abutting public streets. Contour lines shall be based on field surveys or photogrammetric methods from aerial photographs. The basis for the topographic contour shown shall be specified and dated.
l.
Natural features within the proposed development, including drainage channels, bodies of water, and other known significant features such as extensive exposed rock. On all water courses leaving the tract, the direction of flow shall be indicated. The 100-year floodplain shall be outlined and the source of the depicted floodplain information shall be indicated. The acreage or area in square feet within the floodplain shall be indicated.
m.
Man-made and cultural features existing within and adjacent to the proposed development including existing right-of-way measured from centerline, pavement widths, and names of existing streets; all easements, city, and County jurisdiction lines; existing structures on the site and their disposition, Chattahoochee River Corridor information and Chattohoochee River Tributary Protection Areas (if applicable), and other significant information. Location and dimensions of existing bridges; water, sewer, and other existing utility lines and structures; culverts and other existing features should be indicated.
n.
Proposed street names, roadway and right-of-way lines and widths and sites reserved through covenants, easement, dedication or otherwise for public uses.
o.
Identify unit number, division or stage of development, if any, as proposed by the developer.
p.
Show all adjoining property owners, subdivision names, lot numbers, lot lines and block letters, and zoning.
q.
Show the location and number of parking spaces according to the size of the building on the plans. Show factors used in determining number of spaces as required in the Zoning Resolution. Handicapped parking spaces must be shown as required by the Georgia Handicap Law.
r.
Zoning district rezoning case number, date of approval and conditions (as applicable). Variances obtained on the property should be shown with the case number, date of approval and conditions (if applicable). Note any approved Waivers from these Regulations.
s.
If buffers or other landscaping or screening treatments are required, show the location, size, and type (natural or planted) on the plans conforming to the Tree Protection Plan or Buffer and Landscape Plan, as applicable.
t.
Location, height, and size of all freestanding signs to be erected on the site, and indication whether lighted or unlighted.
u.
Location of all known existing landfills and proposed on-site bury pits (State EPD Permit and Gwinnett County Special Use Permit or other approval may be required).
v.
Such additional information as may be reasonably required to permit an adequate evaluation of the project.
10.6.6
Certificate of Development Plans Approval
Each Site Plan shall carry the following certificate printed or stamped thereon:
All requirements of the Gwinnett County Development Regulations relative to the preparation and submission of a development permit application having been fulfilled, and said application and all supporting plans and data having been reviewed and approved by all affected County Departments as required under their respective and applicable regulations, approval is hereby granted of this Site Plan and all other development plans associated with this project subject to all further provisions of said Development and other County Regulations.
EXPAND
_____ _____
Director, Department of Planning and Development Date
  THIS CERTIFICATE EXPIRES TWELVE MONTHS FROM THE DATE OF APPROVAL UNLESS A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT IS ISSUED
10.6.7
The Site Plan shall be accompanied by other Development Plans showing the following information when same is not shown on, or evident from the Site Plan. The various plans may be combined where appropriate and clarity can be maintained.
a.
Erosion Control Plan prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance. Erosion control measures may be shown on the Grading Plan, if desired.
b.
Grading plan, prepared in accordance with the requirements of Article 9 of these Regulations.
c.
Storm Water Drainage Construction Data:
(1)
Location and size of all proposed drainage improvements, and all proposed drainage easements to be located outside street right-of-way lines.
(2)
Profiles of all storm drainage pipes and slope of receiving channels. Hydraulic grade line is to be shown on all pipes which cross County roads and detention basin outfalls.
(3)
Acreage of drainage areas and Hydrological study used in determining size of structures, including map of all contributing drainage basins and acreages.
d.
Sewage Disposal Plans, as follows:
(1)
Sanitary Sewer Plans, including the profiles and other information as may be required by Water Pollution Control.
(2)
For projects proposed to be served by on-site sewage disposal systems, location and extent of septic tank, drain field and attendant structures, and other information required by the Health Department.
e.
Street Widening and Construction Data:
(1)
Centerline profiles and typical roadway sections of all proposed streets, as well as plans and profiles for all proposed major thoroughfares. Profiles (and plans, where required) shall be drawn on standard plan and profile sheet with plan section showing street layout, pavement and right-of-way width, curvature, and required drainage facilities. Typical roadway sections shall be provided for street widenings.
(2)
Where sanitary or storm sewers are to be installed within a street, the grade; size, location and bedding class of pipe; location and invest elevation of manholes shall be indicated on the road profile.
(3)
Profiles covering roadways that are extensions of existing roadways shall include: elevations at 50 foot intervals for such distance as may be adequate to provide continuity consistent with the standards required by these Regulations for street improvements, but no less than 200 feet.
(4)
All elevations shall be coordinated and sited into U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey or Department of Transportation bench marks where feasible or into reference monuments established by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
f.
Buffer and Landscape Plan, if any such areas exist within the site, prepared in accordance with the specifications contained in this Article and the requirements of Article 10 of these Regulations.
g.
Tree Protection Plan (if required by the Tree Protection Ordinance).
h.
Floodplain Management Plans. If any floodplain areas are located on the property, such data as is required by Floodplain Management Ordinance shall be submitted.
i.
Private Water System Plans, if any, indicating proposed water main size and location, with fire hydrants, on the site. The distance and direction to all other fire hydrants within 500 feet of the site or buildings along existing streets or other access drives shall also be indicated.
j.
Street striping plan, showing striping in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control devices, for any street newly constructed to four or more lanes, and all newly constructed or widened major thoroughfares.
10.6.8
Encroachments
Where construction is proposed on adjacent property, an encroachment agreement or easement shall be submitted to the Department.
Sec. 10.7. - Tree Protection Plan Specifications.
10.7.1
A Tree Protection Plan shall be required only under the circumstances described in the Tree Protection Ordinance.
10.7.2
Tree Protection Plans shall be prepared in accordance with the specifications contained in the Tree Protection Ordinance. At the developer's option, the plan may be combined with other plans such as a general landscaping plan for the project, or with a Buffer and Landscape Plan (if required by these Regulations).
Sec. 10.8. - Buffer And Landscape Plan Specifications.
10.8.1
A Buffer and Landscape Plan shall be prepared for any project wherein buffer areas or other landscaping treatment are required by the Zoning Resolution, conditions of zoning approval or other regulations of Gwinnett County, and shall be approved prior to issuance of a Development Permit. While the Plan shall cover, at a minimum, the required buffer and landscape areas, the Plan can be combined with a general landscaping plan for the entire project and/or a Tree Protection Plan (if required), at the developer's option.
10.8.2
The Buffer and Landscape Plan shall be shown on a Site Plan or boundary survey drawn to the same or a larger scale as the other plan documents prepared for the Development Permit Application and shall cover the same area.
10.8.3
The Buffer and Landscape Plan shall contain but need not be limited to the following:
a.
Project name and Land District, Land Lot, parcel number and acreage.
b.
Developer's name and telephone number.
c.
The name, address, and telephone number of the Registered Landscape Architect, Urban Forester, or Arborist responsible for preparation of the plan, and the Seal or statement of professional qualifications of said person.
d.
Boundary lines of each buffer or other landscape area, appropriately labeled.
e.
Delineation of undisturbed buffer areas, and any other areas wherein trees are proposed to be retained to meet County requirements, along the driplines of the trees or groups of trees contained therein. These areas shall be treated in accordance with the Tree Protection Area Requirements contained in the Tree Protection Ordinance, and labeled as such. Protective barriers and signage as required by the Tree Protection Ordinance shall be shown as to location and detailed.
f.
General location of all proposed trees, shrubs, vines, groundcovers, mulching, and other features proposed within the buffer/landscape area. A scale sufficient to clearly indicate all details shall be used, along with a north arrow.
g.
Within areas involving or adjacent to land form changes, existing and finish grade topographic lines at an interval of no more than two feet may be required.
h.
For new plant materials to be installed, a plant material list including but not limited to:
(1)
Common and botanical names of all proposed plants.
(2)
Plant quantities.
(3)
Size and condition of plants. (Example: One inch caliper, six feet height, balled and burlapped).
(4)
Spacing.
(5)
Remarks as necessary to insure proper plant selection upon installation. (Example: Specimen, multi-trunked).
ARTICLE 11. - PROCEDURES

Sec. 11.1. - Subdivision Review Procedures.
11.1.1
Pre-Application Conference
Whenever any subdivision of a tract of land is proposed to be made, whether for residential or nonresidential development, the subdivider is encouraged to present to the Department preliminary documents and graphic exhibits to permit early evaluation of the subdivider's intentions and coordination with the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Resolution, Metropolitan River Protection Act, etc., and to inform and provide the subdivider with the necessary regulations in order to properly accomplish the proposed project.
11.1.2
Concept Plan Approval
a.
Application for Concept Plan approval shall be submitted to the Department using an application form and in a number of copies to be determined by the Director. The Concept Plan shall include the entire property proposed for development, but need not include the applicant's entire contiguous ownership.
b.
In such case that the subdivider elects not to submit a Concept Plan, then the subdivider may proceed directly with the submittal of Development Plans if they show the entire property proposed for development. In so doing, however, the subdivider assumes the risk of premature design and engineering expenses in the event that the County requires subsequent design and engineering changes.
c.
Following Concept Plan approval, a clearing and grubbing permit may be issued based on a Tree Protection Plan (if required - see Tree Protection Ordinance) and soil erosion and sedimentation control plan approved by the Department, and consistent with an approved Certificate issued under the Metropolitan River Protection Act, if applicable.
d.
Copies of the approved Concept Plan shall be provided to the Department for permanent record, in a number as determined by the Director.
11.1.3
Development Plans Approval for Subdivisions
a.
An application for Development Plans approval and issuance of a development permit shall be submitted to the Department using an application form and in a number of copies as determined by the Director. The Development Plans may encompass a portion of a property included within an approved Concept Plan. However, if no Concept Plan has been approved, the Development Plans must include the entire property being developed and having the same zoning.
The application shall include the Preliminary Plat, and construction drawings. All construction drawings and other engineering data shall be prepared and sealed by a Professional Engineer or Landscape Architect currently registered in the State of Georgia, in accordance with the provisions of Georgia Law.
b.
Following submission to the Department of a Preliminary Plat and all drawings required for development permit review, a grading permit shall be issued at the developer's request based on a Tree Protection Plan (if required), soil erosion and sedimentation control plan, hydrology study, and related construction drawings, and consistent with an approved Certificate issued under the Metropolitan River Protection Act, if applicable. The grading permit shall be limited to the area included within the Development Plans and may be further conditioned as deemed appropriate or necessary pending development permit approval.
c.
The Director shall indicate on a review copy of the drawings or in a written memorandum all comments related to compliance of the Development Plans with these Regulations, principles of good design, the Zoning Resolution, conditions of zoning approval, and the regulations of other County departments and State agencies as appropriate. The Director shall have final staff authority to determine the applicability of any and all comments under these Development Regulations, the Zoning Resolution or conditions of zoning approval.
d.
The Director may not approve any Preliminary Plat whereon is shown a lot which would present particularly unusual difficulties for construction of a building, which would clearly require a variance to be reasonably usable, or which is otherwise "unbuildable" because of its unusability, whether due to the presence of floodplain, unusual configuration, lack of public utilities or for any other reason. A House Location Plan (HLP) may be required to be filed as a part of the Preliminary Plat approval to substantiate the buildability of any such difficult or unusual lot.
e.
The subdivider shall be responsible for compliance with all codes, regulations, and zoning requirements and for the satisfaction of all of the noted and written comments of the Director.
f.
Should an applicant disagree with the findings or final review comments of the Director or of any other County department, concluding that factual or interpretative errors have been made, the following appeal procedure shall be followed to resolve the issues.
(1)
Submit to the Department of Planning and Development a written statement clearly defining the nature of the disagreement, the specific reference to the sections of the regulations (i.e., Sewer Regulations, Development Regulations, etc.) at issue, and the applicant's own opinion.
(2)
Should the department under appeal fail to respond within ten working days from the date of transmittal of the appeal by the Department of Planning and Development, the Department shall automatically forward a copy of the appeal to the Board of Commissioners for final action in their normal course of business.
g.
When the Director has determined that the plat and other Development Plans are in compliance with all applicable County regulations and zoning requirements and approval has been received from all affected County Departments, he shall sign and date a CERTIFICATE OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS APPROVAL stamped or printed on a reproducible copy of the plat. Approved copies of the approved plat and Development Plans shall be transmitted to the applicant and retained by the Department for its records.
h.
Following the above approval by all affected County Departments, a Development Permit shall be issued at the developer's request to begin construction activities based on the approved development plans.
11.1.4
Final Plat Approval
a.
When the provisions of these Regulations have been complied with, the subdivider may submit to the Department an application for Final Plat approval, using an application form and in a number of copies as determined by the Director.
b.
The Director shall indicate on a review copy of the plat or in a written memorandum all comments related to compliance of the Final Plat with these Regulations, the Zoning Resolution, conditions of zoning approval, and the regulations of other County departments and State agencies as appropriate. The Director shall have final staff authority to determine the applicability of any and all comments under these Development Regulations, the Zoning Resolution or conditions of zoning approval.
c.
The Director may not approve any Final Plat whereon is shown or by which is otherwise created a lot which would present particularly severe and unusual difficulties for construction of a building, which would clearly require a variance to be reasonably usable, or which is otherwise "unbuildable" due to the presence of floodplain, unusual configuration, lack of Health Department approval, or for any other justified reason.
d.
Lots which would appear to be buildable under certain circumstances and would require further study or additional information before a building permit could be issued, but which present problems or unusual difficulties which can reasonably be addressed or overcome by the lot owner, may be included in the Plat with the appropriate notation of the steps necessary to allow issuance of a building permit (see Section 5.9, Lots, of the General Design Standards).
e.
The subdivider shall be responsible for compliance with all codes, regulations, and zoning requirements and for the satisfaction of all of the comments of the Director.
f.
Final approval by the Director shall not be shown on the Final Plat until all requirements of these and other applicable regulations have been met, and the Director has received a completed request for Approval of Development Conformance and an executed Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement. The Agreement shall be accompanied by a bond, letter of credit or other acceptable surety providing for the maintenance of all installations and improvements required by these Regulations in the subdivision for a period not to exceed 12 months following the date of Approval of Development Conformance for subdivisions for which the final topping of a "two-pass" street has not been applied or for a period not to exceed 18 months. The Maintenance Bond period of application may be extended by the Director at the request of the Developer, provided it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the public.
g.
The Director shall further determine that either:
(1)
All improvements and installations to the subdivision required for approval of the Final Plat under the rules and regulations of Gwinnett County have been completed in accordance with the appropriate specifications; or
(2)
All of the storm water drainage and detention facilities, water and sewer utilities, street base and curbing construction required for approval of the Final Plat have been properly installed and completed and, for those required improvements not yet completed (grassing, pavement topping, required landscaping, sidewalks, etc.) a performance bond shall have been filed by the subdivider with the Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement, which performance bond shall:
(a)
Be conditioned upon the faithful performance by the subdivider or developer of all work required to complete all improvements and installations for the subdivision, or approved portion thereof, in compliance with these rules and regulations within a specified time, not to exceed three months;
(b)
Be payable to, and for the indemnification of, the County;
(c)
Be in an amount equal to the cost of construction of the required improvements not yet completed plus an additional ten percent of said costs, as calculated by the Director on the basis of yearly contract prices or County contracts, where available;
(d)
Be with surety by a company entered and licensed to do business in the State of Georgia; and,
(e)
Be in a form acceptable to the Director or the County Attorney.
h.
Payment for materials and installation of traffic control and street name signs shall be made to the Department of Engineering in accordance with the traffic engineering regulations prior to approval of the Final Plat. Payment of the cost of striping major thoroughfares or required signalization if required and not completed by the developer shall also be received by the Engineering Department prior to approval of the Final Plat.
i.
Payment of the required plat recording fee shall be made to the Department prior to approval of the Final Plat.
j.
Once the Department has approved the Final Plat and all other affected departments and agencies of government as required have certified compliance and signed the route sheet, the Director shall certify by his signature on the original of the plat that all of the requirements of these Regulations, the Zoning Resolution, and the conditions of zoning approval have been met, and that all other affected departments have approved the plat. The Final Plat shall not be deemed approved until it has been signed by the Director and where use of septic tanks is proposed, by a duly authorized representative of the Health Department.
k.
Once the Final Plat has been so certified, the Director shall authorize it to be recorded with the Clerk of the Superior Court of Gwinnett County. The subdivider shall provide the Department with an appropriate number of copies of the recorded plat, as determined by the Director. Deeds to lands dedicated to Gwinnett County in fee simple, or to Property Owner Associations for park or recreational use, shall be recorded simultaneously with the Final Plat.
l.
Periodically, but no less often than once each month, the Director shall submit a listing of all approved Final Plats to the Board of Commissioners for ratification of acceptance of all dedications.
Sec. 11.2. - Non-Subdivision Review Procedures.
11.2.1
Pre-Application Conference
Whenever any development of a single parcel of land (other than a subdivision or a one or two-family dwelling) is proposed to be made, the developer is encouraged to present to the Department preliminary documents and graphic exhibits to permit early evaluation of the developer's intentions and coordination with the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Resolution, Metropolitan River Protection Act, etc., and to inform and provide the subdivider with the necessary regulations in order to properly accomplish the proposed project.
11.2.2
Concept Plan Approval
a.
Application for Concept Plan approval shall be submitted to the Department using an application form and in a number of copies to be determined by the Director.
b.
The Concept Plan shall include the entire property being developed. Properties which adjoin the subject property and which are under the same ownership or control as the subject property shall be so indicated. In such case that the developer elects not to submit a Concept Plan, then the subdivider may proceed directly with the submittal of Development Plans, if they show the entire parcel being developed. In so doing, however, the developer assumes the risk of premature design and engineering expenses in the event that the County requires subsequent design and engineering changes.
c.
Following Concept Plan approval, a clearing and grubbing permit shall be issued at the developer's request based on a Tree Protection Plan (if required - see Tree Protection Ordinance) and Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan approved by the Department, and consistent with an approved Certificate issued under the Metropolitan River Protection Act, if applicable.
d.
Following Concept Plan approval, a grading permit may be issued at the developer's request based on the requirements above for a clearing and grubbing permit and in addition a stormwater management report (hydrology study) shall be submitted and approved.
e.
Copies of the approved Concept Plan shall be provided to the Department for permanent record, in a number as determined by the Director.
11.2.3
Site Development Plans Approval
a.
An application for Development Plans approval and issuance of a development permit shall be submitted to the Department using an application form and in a number of copies as determined by the Director. The Development Plans may encompass a portion of a property included within an approved Concept Plan. However, if no Concept Plan has been approved, the Development Plans must include the entire property being developed and having similar zoning. As required under Section 10.6 of these Regulations, the application shall include the Site Plan and construction drawings, as appropriate to the project. All construction drawings and other engineering data shall be prepared and sealed by a Professional Engineer or Landscape Architect currently registered in the State of Georgia, in accordance with the provisions of Georgia Law.
b.
The Director shall indicate on a review copy of the drawings or in a written memorandum all comments related to compliance of the Development Plans with these Regulations, principles of good design, the Zoning Ordinance, conditions of zoning approval, and the regulations of other County departments and State agencies as appropriate. The Director shall have final staff authority to determine the applicability of any and all comments under these Development Regulations, the Zoning Resolution or conditions of zoning approval.
c.
The developer shall be responsible for compliance with all codes, regulations, and zoning requirements and for the satisfaction of all of the noted and written comments of the Director.
d.
Deeds to lands dedicated to Gwinnett County in fee simple, shall be submitted to the Director for recording.
e.
Should an applicant disagree with the findings or final review comments of the Director or of any other County department, concluding that factual or interpretive errors have been made, the following appeal procedure shall be followed to resolve the issues.
(1)
Submit to the Department of Planning and Development a written statement clearly defining the nature of the disagreement, the specific reference to the sections of the regulations (i.e., Sewer Regulations, Development Regulations, etc.) at issue, and the applicant's own opinion.
(2)
Should the department under appeal fail to respond within ten working days from the date of transmittal of the appeal by the Department of Planning and Development, the Department shall automatically forward a copy of the appeal to the Board of Commissioners for final action in their normal course of business.
f.
When the Director has determined that the Site Plan and other Development Plans are in compliance with all applicable County regulations and zoning requirements, and approval has been received from all affected County Departments, he shall sign and date a CERTIFICATE OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS APPROVAL on a reproducible copy of the plan. Approved copies of the approved Development Plans shall be transmitted to the applicant and retained by the Department for its records.
g.
Following the above approval by all affected County Departments, and approval of a Metropolitan River Protection Act Certificate, if applicable, a development permit shall be issued at the developer's request to begin construction activities based on the approved Development Plans. Said permit may include clearing, grubbing, and grading as appropriate and approved as part of the project. A building permit may also be issued on the basis of the approved development permit under the provisions contained in Article 4. A Certificate of Occupancy may not be issued, however, until a Certificate of Development Conformance for the project has been executed by the Owner and an executed Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement has been received in accordance with these Regulations.
11.2.4
Certificate of Development Conformance Approval Process
a.
Final approval by the Director shall not be shown on the Certificate of Development Conformance until all requirements of these and other applicable regulations have been met, and the Director has received a completed request for Approval of Development Conformance and an executed Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement. The Agreement shall be accompanied by a bond, letter of credit or other acceptable surety providing for the maintenance of all installations and Public improvements required by these Regulations in the development for a period not to exceed 12 months following the date of Approval of Development Conformance for developments for which the final topping of a "two-pass" street has not been applied or for a period not to exceed 18 months. The Maintenance Bond period of application may be extended by the Director at the request of the Developer, provided it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the public.
b.
The Director shall further determine that either:
(1)
All Public improvements and installations to the development required to be dedicated and for approval of the Certificate of Development Conformance under the rules and regulations of Gwinnett County have been completed in accordance with the appropriate specifications; or
(2)
All of the storm water drainage and detention facilities, water and sewer utilities, street base and curbing construction required for approval of the Certificate of Development Conformance have been properly installed and completed and, for those required Public improvements not yet completed, within areas to be dedicated, (grassing, pavement topping, required landscaping, sidewalks, etc.) a performance bond shall have been filed by the developer with the Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement, which performance bond shall:
(a)
Be conditioned upon the faithful performance by the developer of all work required to complete all Public improvements and installations required to be dedicated for the development, or approved portion thereof, in compliance with these rules and regulations within a specified time, not to exceed three months;
(b)
Be payable to, and for the indemnification of, the County;
(c)
Be in an amount equal to the cost of construction of the required Public improvements required to be dedicated not yet completed plus an additional ten percent of said costs, as calculated by the Director on the basis of yearly contract prices or County contracts, where available;
(d)
Be with surety by a company entered and licensed to do business in the State of Georgia; and,
(e)
Be in a form acceptable to the Director or the County Attorney.
c.
Payment for materials and installation of traffic control shall be made to the Department of Engineering in accordance with the traffic engineering regulations prior to approval of the Certificate of Development Conformance. Payment of the cost of striping major thoroughfares or required signalization if required and not completed by the developer shall also be received by the Engineering Department prior to approval of the Certificate of Development Conformance.
d.
Payment of the required plat recording fee shall be made to the Department prior to approval of the Final Plat.
e.
Once the Department has approved the Certificate of Development Conformance and all other affected departments and agencies of government as required have certified compliance and signed the route sheet, the Director shall certify by his signature on the original of the Certificate of Development Conformance that all of the requirements of these Regulations, the Zoning Resolution, and the conditions of zoning approval have been met, and that all other affected departments have approved the plat. The Certificate of Development Conformance shall not be deemed approved until it has been signed by the Director and where use of septic tanks is proposed, by a duly authorized representative of the Health Department.
Sec. 11.3. - Assignment Of Names And Addresses.
11.3.1
Subdivision or Development Names
a.
Proposed subdivision or development names must be reviewed and approved prior to the issuance of a development permit. Names will be reviewed by the Department upon submittal of the Preliminary Plat or Site Plan.
b.
Proposed names shall not duplicate or too closely approximate, phonetically, the name of any other subdivision or development in Gwinnett County or its municipalities except for extensions of existing subdivisions or developments.
c.
Subdivision and development names may be reserved if submitted and approved along with the Concept Plan for the project.
11.3.2
Street Names
a.
Proposed street names must be reviewed and approved prior to approval of a Final Plat for recording. Street names may be reserved through approval as shown on an approved Concept Plan or Preliminary Plant for the subdivision. Proposed names for private streets shall follow the same rules as for public streets.
b.
Street names shall consist of a root name of the developer's choosing and a suffix designation (such as "Street," "Avenue," "Drive," etc.), and shall be followed by a quadrant suffix. Directional prefixes (i.e., "North," "South") and the prefixes "old" or "new" shall not be used.
c.
All streets shall bear the proper quadrant suffix appropriate to its location within the County (i.e. NE, NW, SE, and SW), as determined by the Department.
d.
A proposed street that is obviously in alignment with another already existing and named street shall bear the name of such existing street, unless this requirement is waived by the Departments of Public Safety and Engineering.
e.
Except within the same development, no proposed street name shall duplicate (be spelled the same or be phonetically the same) as an existing street name within Gwinnett County regardless of the use of such suffix designations as "Street", "Avenue", "Boulevard", "Drive", "Place", "Way", "Court", or however otherwise designated. In the same subdivision, a root name may not occur more than twice.
f.
All street root names and suffix designations are subject to the approval of the Department. Obscene or otherwise unacceptable language, abbreviations, contractions, or initials may not be used.
g.
Root names shall consist of no more than 13 characters including spaces, hyphens, etc. Letters not occurring in the English alphabet, and numerals, shall not be used.
11.3.3
Street Address Assignments
a.
A street address number must be assigned prior to issuance of a building permit. For any new structure proposed on a property which has not been assigned an address, a street number will be assigned upon confirmation or establishment of the property as a buildable lot of record under the requirements of these Regulations.
b.
Subdivisions
House numbers will be assigned after an Exemption Plat or Preliminary Plat is approved for the property. Submit two copies of the approved Plat to the Department. Block number assignments shall also be designated for abutting major street name signs at this time.
c.
Commercial/Industrial Projects or Buildings
Projects will be numbered after the developer submits the Site Plan for development review.
d.
Apartment Projects
Projects will be numbered after the developer submits copies of the Site Plan for development review. The overall development will be issued a single street address. The developer will be responsible for numbering/lettering individual buildings and units.
e.
Condominium Projects
Projects will be numbered after the developer submits the Site Plan for development review. Individual units shall be numbered consecutively if located along public or private streets. Units in the "stacked-flat" configuration shall use the same numbering approach as applies to an apartment project.
f.
The following numbering systems shall be followed per postal regulations:
(1)
Individual mailbox for each dwelling units: Each street in the project must be named.
(2)
Cluster box system - Centralized mailbox for entire project: One street name will serve to assign all house numbers for mail delivery.
Sec. 11.4. - Initiation Of Development Activities.
11.4.1
Initial Activities Required
Following the issuance of any permit authorizing clearing or grading of a site:
a.
Required erosion control measures must be installed where practical by the developer and inspected and approved by the Department prior to actual grading or removal of vegetation. All control measures shall be in place as soon after the commencement of activities as possible and in coordination with the progress of the project.
b.
Soil sedimentation facilities must be installed and operational prior to major grading operations.
c.
Areas required to be undisturbed by the Zoning Resolution, conditions of zoning approval, Metropolitan River Protection Act or other ordinance or regulation shall be designated by survey stakes, flags, or other appropriate markings and shall be inspected and approved by the Department of Development prior to the commencement of any clearing or grading activities.
11.4.2
Tree Protection Areas
Prior to the initiation of land disturbance activities and throughout the clearing or grading process the following must be accomplished for any designated tree protection area in accordance with an approved Buffer and Landscape Plan or Tree Protection Plan for the property:
a.
For those trees which are not to be removed, all protective fencing, staking, and any tree protection area signs shall be in place. These barriers must be maintained throughout the land disturbance process and should not be removed until landscaping is begun.
b.
The tree protection areas shall not be utilized for storage of earth and other materials resulting from or used during the development process.
c.
Construction site activities such as parking, materials storage, concrete washout, burning, etc. shall be arranged to prevent disturbances within the tree protection areas.
11.4.3
Development Inspections
Oral notification shall be made by the developer or contractor to the Development Inspections Section of the Department at least 24 hours prior to commencement of activity for each of the following phases as authorized by any permit for site work or development. Inspections shall be made by the Department and passed prior to continuation of further activity or proceeding into new phases.
a.
Clearing or clearing and grubbing of the site or any portion included under the permit.
b.
Grading. Installation of slope stakes shall be required. Upon completion of roadway grading, the Water Certificate shall be submitted to the Department certifying that the centerline of the road and the offset centerline of the water line is within six inches of that shown on the approved plans or red-lined plan submittal. Inspection and approval shall be required prior to trenching or continuation with sub-base preparation.
c.
Installation of storm drainage pipe, detention, or other storm water facilities.
d.
Installation of sanitary sewer and appurtenances. This notification shall be made simultaneously with official notification by the developer or contractor to the Water Pollution Control Division, and is for informational purposes only to the Department.
e.
Curbing of roadways. Inspection should be requested before the forms have been set (if used). Roadway width will be spot checked by string line between curb stakes.
f.
Sub-base or subgrade of streets. After compaction, the subgrade will be string-lined for depth and crown. The subgrade shall be roll tested and shall pass with no movement, to the satisfaction of the Department.
g.
Street base. The base will be string-lined for depth and crown, and shall pass a roll test with no movement to the satisfaction of the Department.
h.
Paving. A Department inspector shall be on site during the paving process to check consistency, depth, and workmanship, as applicable. For asphalt paving, the temperature of the material will be spot-checked, and the roadways will be cored after completion to check thickness.
11.4.4
Responsibility for Quality and Design
The completion of inspections by Gwinnett County officials or employees and authorization for work continuation shall not transfer responsibility for the quality of the work performed or materials used from the contractor or developer, nor imply or transfer acceptance of responsibility for project design or engineering from the professional corporation or individual under whose hand or supervision the plans were prepared.
11.4.5
Stop Work Orders
Work which is not authorized by an approved permit, or which is not in conformance to the approved plans for the project, or which is not in compliance with the provisions of these Regulations or any other adopted code, regulation or ordinance of Gwinnett County, shall be subject to immediate Stop Work Order by the Department. Work which proceeds without having received the necessary inspections of the Department shall be halted until all inspections of intervening work is completed.
11.4.6
Stabilization for Erosion Control
If for any reason a clearing and grubbing, grading, or development permit expires after land disturbance activities have commenced, the developer shall be responsible for stabilizing the site for erosion control, under the direction of the Department.
Sec. 11.5. - Approval Of Development Conformance.
11.5.1
Prerequisite to Final Plat or Certificate of Occupancy
This approval shall be a prerequisite to the approval of a Final Plat or issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for any part of a project included in a development permit, except for single-family and two-family residential structures. The approval shall reflect the owner's certification that all site work and construction has been accomplished according to the terms of approved plans and permits, and that all facilities intended for maintenance, supervision and/or dedication to the public are in compliance with appropriate standards, regulations, codes and ordinances. Such approval shall be revoked in cases of fraud or whenever unauthorized changes are made to the site without the benefit of required permits.
11.5.2
Submission Requirements
Upon completion of the project as authorized for construction by the development permit, the owner shall file a Certificate of Development Conformance with the Director along with record drawings of all storm water detention facilities and modifications to the limits of the 100-year floodplain (if any). An "as-built" hydrology study shall also be submitted, updating the original hydrology study for the project with the actual parameters from the record drawing of the detention facilities. A record drawing of the sanitary sewer facilities shall also be prepared, separately or included with the above, and submitted to the Public Utilities Department in accordance with their regulations. The Certificate of Development Conformance shall be in a form as required by the Director (see Appendix B) and shall be accompanied by a Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement completed in draft form. If the owner is a corporation, the documents shall be signed by the President or Vice President, be affixed by the corporate seal, and either the corporate secretary shall attest to the signature and affix the corporate seal, or a Certificate of Corporate Resolution shall also be submitted.
11.5.3
Approval
Following final inspection and approval of all record drawings, the Director shall approve the Certificate of Development Conformance.
Sec. 11.6. - Project Closeout And Continuing Maintenance.
11.6.1
Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement
Based on the approved Certificate of Development Conformance, the owner shall file a final Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement with the Director, along with any required Certificate of Corporate Resolution and performance or maintenance surety, as a prerequisite to the approval of a Final Plat or issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for any part of a project included in the development permit, except for single-family and two-family residential structures. The Development Performance and Maintenance Agreement shall be in a form as required by the Director, and shall include the following:
a.
Final required improvements yet to be completed (e.g., grassing, topping, sidewalks, required landscaping) and performance bonding. Final landscaping shall be provided in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Department. The developer may be allowed up to three months in which to finish the other designated improvements, after the date of approval of the Certificate of Development Conformance.
b.
Maintenance of the public streets and drainage facilities within public streets or easements for the bonding period after the date of approval of the Certificate of Development Conformance. Repairs shall be made for any deficiencies identified within the bonding period or the bonds shall be called to complete same.
c.
Indemnification of the County against all liability for damages arising as a result or errors or omissions in the design or construction of the development for a period of ten years. If liability is subsequently assigned or transferred to a successor in title or other person, a copy of such legal instrument shall be filed with the Clerk to Superior Court.
11.6.2
Maintenance and Performance Surety
a.
The maintenance surety and the performance surety, required from the owner/developer or the contractor employed by the owner/developer, may be in the form of cash deposited with the City or a bond in a form acceptable to the City Attorney.
b.
Performance surety and Maintenance surety shall, in all cases, be provided in an amount as provided in Sections 11.1.4 or 11.2.4 as applicable. The Maintenance Bond period of application shall not expire until the City has made a determination, through field inspection, that all bonded improvements are in an acceptable condition. The Performance period for sidewalks installed as a component of a subdivision project shall be 24 months after the approval of the Final Plat. All cost estimates shall be prepared or acceptable to the City.
(Res. of 5-12-1997)
c.
A maintenance bond for the sanitary sewer facilities is required separately by the Water Pollution Control Division in accordance with their regulations. For the water system improvements, the contractor employed by the developer shall be responsible for maintenance of all water mains and appurtenances for one year from the date of approval of the Certificate of Development Conformance by correcting all defects or deficiencies in materials or workmanship.
ARTICLE 12. - FEES
12.1
Application filing and permit fees shall be as may be established from time-to-time by the Board of Commissioners.
12.2
Permit fees, if any, shall be submitted as a prerequisite to issuance of the permit. Non-payment as a result of submission of a check having insufficient funds on account, or for any other reason, shall cause the permit to be voided and reissuance subject to penalty as may be established by the Board of Commissioners.
12.3
Application fees, if any, shall be submitted with the application and upon acceptance of said submission for review and consideration shall not be refundable. Failure to pay a required application fee shall cause the application to be returned to the applicant without acceptance for review or consideration by the County.
12.4
Following the approval of development plans, and prior to authorization to begin construction, the developer shall pay into the Treasury of Gwinnett County such required inspection, sanitary sewer permit charges, curb cut, or other fees as may be established from time-to-time by the Board of Commissioners. Such fees shall not be refundable following issuance of a Development Permit, except upon approval of the Board of Commissioners.
12.5
Prior to Approval of Development Conformance for a project, the developer shall provide to the Department of Engineering such fees for traffic control signs, street name signs, and street striping as shall be required by traffic engineering regulations and established from time-to-time by the Board of Commissioners.
12.6
Prior to approval of a Final Plat or Certificate of Occupancy, the developer shall provide to the Department of Development such recording fees and performance and/or maintenance bonds as shall be required by these Regulations or established from time-time-time by the Board of Commissioners.
ARTICLE 13. - ADMINISTRATION, APPEAL, AND VIOLATIONS

Sec. 13.1. - Administration.
13.1.1
These Development Regulations shall be administered, interpreted, and enforced by the Director of the Department of Planning and Development of Gwinnett County, Georgia. All other ordinances or regulations referenced herein, such as the fire prevention and life safety codes, building and other technical codes, health, water, and sewer regulations, shall be administered by the directors of the departments responsible for such regulations, as established by the Board of Commissioners.
13.1.2
In any case in which activities are undertaken in violation of these Regulations, not in compliance with the provisions of a permit issued under the authorization of these Regulations, or without authorization of a permit which would otherwise be required, the Director is hereby authorized to suspend or invalidate such permits, order that all unauthorized or improper work be stopped, direct correction of deficiencies, issue summonses to any court of competent jurisdiction, or take any other legal or administrative action appropriate to the severity of the violation and degree of threat to the public health, safety, and welfare.
Sec. 13.2. - Regulations To Be Published.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Director of the Department of Planning and Development to maintain an accurate and up-to-date compilation of these Development Regulations and all amendments and pertinent attachments thereto, and to publish said compilation and make it available to the public at a cost as established by the Board of Commissioners.
Sec. 13.3. - Modifications.
Modification of the design standards set forth in these Development Regulations may be authorized by the Director in specific cases when, in his opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance; provided any such determination shall be based fundamentally on the fact that unusual topographical or other exceptional conditions require such modification, or that the granting of the modification will not adversely affect the general public welfare or nullify the intent of these Regulations. Any such modification granted by the Director shall be made in writing to the developer and also made a part of the Department's records. Application for any modifications shall be filed in writing on a form provided by the Department with necessary supporting documents with the Director by the developer and shall explain in detail the reasons and facts supporting the application.
Sec. 13.4. - Appeal And Waiver Of The Regulations.
13.4.1
Appeals
Appeals of the interpretation by the Director of the requirements of these Regulations shall first be submitted in writing (on a form provided by the Department) to the Director who shall review the request in a timely manner and receive comments from other affected departments. The appeal thereupon shall be forwarded to the Board of Commissioners for final action in their normal course of business.
13.4.2
Waivers
Waiver requests of the requirements of these Regulations shall be submitted on an application form as prescribed by the Director, along with such fees as shall be established by the Board of Commissioners from time-to-time. The Director shall coordinate the review of each waiver request by all other affected County departments and shall summarize such comments or recommendations as may be received to the Board of Commissioners for final action in their normal course of business.
Sec. 13.5. - Violations, Enforcement And Penalties.
Any action or inaction that violates the provisions of this ordinance or the requirements of an approved plan or permit shall be subject to the enforcement actions or penalties outlined herein. Any such action or inaction that is continuous with respect to time is deemed to be a public nuisance and also may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of the enforcement actions or penalties described herein shall not prevent such equitable relief.
13.5.1
Enforcement Procedures.
The following are the enforcement procedures authorized by this ordinance:
a.
Notices of Violation.
Enforcement shall begin with the issuance of a written Notice of Violation to the owner or responsible person by the director. The notice may be delivered personally or sent by first class mail. The Notice of Violation shall contain at least the following information:
1.
The name and address of the owner or responsible person;
2.
The location or address of the site upon which the violation is occurring;
3.
A description of the nature of the violation;
4.
A description of the remedial actions or measures necessary to bring an action or inaction into compliance with a permit, approved plan or this ordinance;
5.
The deadline or completion date of any such remedial actions or measures;
6.
A statement of the penalty or penalties that may be assessed against the owner or responsible person to whom the Notice of Violation is directed.
In the event the owner or responsible person fails to correct the violations after the deadline contained in the Notice of Violation, the director or designee is authorized to take or impose any one or more of the additional actions contained herein.
b.
Stop Work Orders.
The director or designee is authorized to issue Stop Work Orders to an owner or responsible person. Stop Work Orders are effective immediately and shall remain in effect until the necessary corrective actions or remedial measures as set forth in the Notice of Violation have occurred. Stop Work Orders may be withdrawn or modified by the director in order to enable an owner or responsible person to take the necessary remedial actions or measures to correct the violations.
c.
Refusal to Issue Certificates of Occupancy or Completion.
The director or designee is authorized to refuse to issue Certificates of Occupancy or Completion for the building or other improvements constructed or being constructed on a site until the owner or responsible person has taken the remedial actions or measures as set forth in the Notice of Violation or has otherwise corrected the violations described therein.
d.
Suspension, Revocation, or Modification of Permit.
The director or designee is authorized to suspend, revoke or modify a permit that was issued authorizing land disturbing activities or development. The director or designee is authorized to reinstate a suspended, revoked or modified permit after the owner or responsible person has taken the remedial actions or measures stated in the Notice of Violation or has otherwise corrected the violations described therein. The director or designee is also authorized to reinstate such permit, which may include conditions as the director may deem necessary, to enable the owner or responsible person to take the necessary remedial actions or measures to correct the violations.
e.
Refusal to Approve Final Subdivision Plats.
The director or designee is authorized to refuse to approve Final Plats until the owner or responsible person has taken the remedial actions or measures set forth in the Notice of Violation or has otherwise corrected the violations described therein.
f.
Issuance of Citations or Summons to Court.
The director or designee is authorized to issue a citation or summons to the owner or responsible person requiring such person to appear in a court of competent jurisdiction to answer charges for violations of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 113-04, 3-8-2004)
13.5.2
Legal Penalties and/or Remedies.
a.
Fine and/or Sentence.
Any person convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this ordinance shall be guilty of violating a duly adopted ordinance of the city and shall be punished either by a fine not less than $100.00 per day and not greater than $1,000.00 per day, or by a sentence of imprisonment not to exceed 60 days in jail, or both a fine and jail or work alternate. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
b.
Other Legal Remedies.
In any case in which a violation of this ordinance has occurred, the city, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may petition for a restraining order, injunction, abatement, or take any other appropriate legal action or proceeding through a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent, restrain, or abate such unlawful use or activity.
(Ord. No. 113-04, 3-8-2004)
13.5.3
In any case in which any land is, or is proposed to be, used or activities are undertaken in violation of these Regulations or any amendment thereto adopted by the Board of Commissioners, the County, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may petition for a restraining order, injunction, abatement, or take any other appropriate legal action or proceeding through a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent, restrain, or abate such unlawful use or activity.
ARTICLE 14. - ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT

Sec. 14.1. - Effective Date.
14.1.1
These Regulations shall be in full force and effect on January 1, 1988, following the adoption by the Board of Commissioners of Gwinnett County, Georgia, and shall apply to any Land Disturbance Permit for which an application is received after the effective date of these Regulations.
14.1.2
Any subdivision or other project for which a valid and complete application for a Development Permit shall have been received prior to the effective date of these Regulations shall be considered "grandfathered" and, at the developer's option, may proceed to completion and building permits may be issued under the Subdivision Regulations of Gwinnett County in place prior to the effective date of these Regulations, provided that the Development Permit is or can be issued within 90 calendar days of said effective date and all time frames associated with said permit are observed.
14.1.3
Any subdivision or other project for which a Development Permit has been issued prior to the effective date of these Regulations shall be considered "grandfathered" and, at the developer's option, may proceed to completion and building permits may be issued under the terms of said permit and the Subdivision Regulations of Gwinnett County in place prior to said effective date.
14.1.4
Any subdivision or other project for which only a Clearing, Clearing and Grubbing, or Grading Permit shall have been issued prior to effective date of these Regulations shall be brought into conformance with these Regulations prior to issuance of a Development Permit. Administrative modifications in accordance with Article 13 shall be granted as necessary and appropriate where full compliance is not feasible or cannot reasonably be achieved because of the stage of development, limitations imposed by the site, or design parameters.
14.1.5
Nothing in these Regulations shall be construed to affect the validity of any building permit lawfully issued prior to the effective date of these Regulations.
Sec. 14.2. - Amendments.
14.2.1
These Regulations may be amended from time-to-time by resolution of the Board of Commissioners of Gwinnett County. Such amendments shall be effective as of their date of effective date unless otherwise stated in the adopting resolution.
14.2.2
Any subdivision or other project for which a valid and complete application for a Development Permit shall have been received prior to the adoption of an amendment to these Regulations may, at the developer's option, proceed to completion and building permits may be issued as though no amendment had been approved, provided that the Development Permit is or can be issued within 90 calendar days of said amendment and all time frames associated with said permit are observed.
14.2.3
Any subdivision or other project for which a Development Permit has been issued prior to the adoption of an amendment to these Regulations may, at the developer's option, proceed to completion and building permits may be issued as though no amendment had been approved.
14.2.4
Any subdivision or other project for which only a Clearing, Clearing and Grubbing, or Grading Permit shall have been issued prior to adoption of an amendment to these Regulations shall be brought into conformance with the amendment (if applicable) prior to issuance of a Development Permit. Administrative modifications in accordance with Article 13 shall be granted as necessary and appropriate where full compliance is not feasible or cannot reasonably be achieved because of the stage of development, limitations imposed by the site, or design parameters.
14.2.5
No amendment to these Regulations shall be construed to affect the validity of any building permit lawfully issued prior to the adoption of said amendment.
Sec. 14.3. - Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of these Regulations is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or void, the validity of the remaining portions of these Regulations shall not be affected thereby, it being the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Gwinnett County in adopting these Regulations that no portion thereof or provision of the Regulations contained herein shall become inoperative or fail by reason of the unconstitutionality or invalidity of any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or provisions of these Regulations.
Sec. 14.4. - Conflicting Regulations.
All regulations or parts of regulations of the Code of Laws of Gwinnett County, Georgia, in conflict with these Regulations shall be and the same are hereby repealed in their portions so in conflict. Provided, however, that it is not the intent of these Regulations to repeal or affect any Law of the State of Georgia, or any Code or Ordinance of Gwinnett County adopted as a requirement of a State Law, in which case the most restrictive requirement shall control.
