ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Moral character.
(a)
In this Code the phrase "good moral character" shall be construed to mean the propensity of the person to serve the public in the licensed area in a fair, honest and open manner.
(b)
A judgment of guilt is a criminal prosecution or a judgment in a civil action shall not be used in and of itself as proof of a person's lack of good moral character. It may be used as evidence in the determination and when so used the person shall be notified and shall be permitted to rebut the evidence by showing that:
(1)
At the current time he has the ability to, and is likely to, serve the public in a fair, honest and open manner; and
(2)
He is rehabilitated, or that the substance of the former offense is not reasonable related to the occupation or profession for which he seeks a business license or business permit.
Sec. 14-2. - License for canvasser or solicitor.
(a)
Any person engaging or offering to engage in business as a canvasser or solicitor at residences and places of business in the city, for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions or conducting businesses of any kind except nonprofit organizations which are exempt from payment of taxes by the U.S. Internal Revenue Department and their canvassers or solicitors, shall obtain a license from the police chief and in addition thereto must secure identification cards or badges from the police department for each canvasser or solicitor.
(b)
All such persons must file an application for a license with the police chief, which application shall contain complete identification, fingerprints, and the signature of each person so canvassing or soliciting, the name and address of the employer and the proposed method of operation in the city, including the time and area of the operation. The police chief shall complete his review of the application within seven working days.
(c)
Licenses shall be granted to an applicant or canvasser by the chief of police where, after investigation, the applicant's is found to be of good moral character. Any applicant may appeal a denial of a license by the chief of police to the mayor and council by filing written notice of appeal within ten days of denial.
(d)
Nonprofit organizations and their canvassers and solicitors may obtain identification cards or badges from the police department upon paying a nominal fee covering the administrative costs for the issuance of the badges and cards. The fee required shall be established by the mayor and council.
(Code 2001, § 9-1-2)
Sec. 14-3. - Locational requirements for tattoo studios.
No tattoo studio shall be licensed or operated within 1,000 feet of any residential zoning district, school, public or private college, church or place of worship, library, daycare facility, and park or playground, massage parlor or commercial soft tissue touch or manipulation establishment, or existing tattoo studio, or adult entertainment establishment. The distances required by this section shall be measured from the closest property line occupied, or to be occupied, by the tattoo studio to the closest property line occupied by the foregoing protected uses.
(Code 2001, § 9-1-3; Ord. No. 063-03, 1-13-2003; Ord. No. 400-10, 12-20-2010)
Cross reference— Body art studios and artists, § 23-1 et seq.
Secs. 14-4—14-24. - Reserved.
