ARTICLE IX. - VIDEO STORES

Sec. 14-275. - Findings: Public purpose.
(a)
Based on the experiences of other counties and municipalities, including, but not limited to, Houston, Texas, Tucson, Arizona, Chattanooga, Tennessee, Minneapolis, Minnesota, Dayton, Ohio, and Gwinnett County, Georgia, which experiences are found to be relevant to the problems faced by the City of Lilburn, and based on documentary evidence and oral presentation during the meeting of the mayor and council on September 10, 2001; and based upon the record of the Gwinnett County board of commissioners' public hearing and regular meeting on August 7, 2001, including the record of testimony by Colonel John Latty, Officer John Jenkins, and Investigator J. P. Droualt of the Gwinnett police department, and further comments in that meeting by representatives of the adult entertainment industry, the Mayor and Council of the City of Lilburn take note of the opportunity for unlawful sexual activities including, but not limited to, masturbation and oral and anal sex to occur at video stores which provide private or semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films or videos depicting nudity, and for sexually transmitted diseases to spread as a result of the unhealthy conditions and unlawful activities associated with such booths, and the Mayor and Council of the City of Lilburn further note that persons frequent such video viewing booths for the purpose of engaging in sexual activities within such video viewing booths, and bodily fluids, including semen, urine and feces are found in such video viewing booths.
(b)
The Mayor and Council of the City of Lilburn find that removal of doors on such video viewing booths and prohibiting holes between such booths advances a substantial governmental interest in curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in such booths. The Mayor and Council of the City of Lilburn therefore find that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the community to require that doors or other partitions on video viewing booths in video stores be removed and that no holes be allowed to exist between adjoining booths. The mayor and council find that these regulations promote the public welfare by furthering legitimate public and governmental interests, including, but not limited to, reducing unlawful sexual activities and unhealthy conditions in video viewing booths found in video stores. The mayor and council further find that these regulations will not infringe upon the protected Constitutional rights of freedom of speech or expression. To that end, the ordinance as codified in this article is hereby adopted.
(Code 2001, § 9-11-1; Ord. of 9-10-2001)
Sec. 14-276. - Requirements.
Any video store having available for customers, patrons or members any booth, room or cubicle for the private viewing of any video or motion picture must comply with the following requirements:
(1)
Access. Each booth, room or cubicle shall be totally accessible to and from aisles and public areas of the video store, and shall be unobstructed by any curtain, door, lock or other control-type or view-obstructing devices or materials.
(2)
Construction. Every booth, room or cubicle shall meet the following construction requirements:
a.
Each booth, room or cubicle shall be separated from adjacent booths, rooms and cubicles and any nonpublic areas by a wall.
b.
Each booth, room or cubicle shall have at least one side totally open to a public lighted area or aisle so that there is an unobstructed view of anyone occupying the booth from the area in which the cash register for the video store is located.
c.
All walls shall be solid and without openings, extended from the floor to a height of not less than six feet and be light colored, nonabsorbent, smooth-textured and easily cleanable.
d.
The floor must be light-colored, nonabsorbent, smooth-textured and easily cleaned.
e.
The lighting level of each booth, room, or cubicle when not in use shall be a minimum of ten footcandles at all times, as measured from the floor.
(3)
Occupants. Only one individual shall occupy a booth, room or cubicle at any time. No occupant of same shall engage in any type of sexual activity, cause any bodily discharge or litter while in the booth, room, or cubicle. No individual shall damage or deface any portion of the booth, room or cubicle.
(Code 2001, § 9-11-2; Ord. of 9-10-2001)
Sec. 14-277. - Definition of video store.
Video store means any establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade which includes videotapes or movies or other reproductions, whether for sale or rent, or an establishment with a segment or section comprising five percent or more of its total floor space devoted to the sale or display of such material or which derives more than five percent of its net sales from videos. The term "video store" shall include adult video stores as defined in this Code of the City of Lilburn, Georgia.
(Code 2001, § 9-11-3; Ord. of 9-10-2001)
Sec. 14-278. - Enforcement.
The provisions of this article may, in addition to any criminal remedy available, be enforced through an action for abatement of a nuisance in the manner provided by law. The city may apply to a court with jurisdiction to grant equitable relief to abate or remove private video viewing booths and to restrain or enjoin any person from operating or engaging in conduct contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 2001, § 9-11-4; Ord. of 9-10-2001)
Secs. 14-279—14-299. - Reserved.
