Chapter 101 - ADMINISTRATION, PLANNING AND ZONING GENERALLY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 105; environment, ch. 109; signs, ch. 113; telecommunication towers and antennas, ch. 117; zoning; app. A; development regulations, app. B.
State Law reference— Zoning authority, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV; zoning procedures, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.

Sec. 101-1. - Development regulations incorporated by reference.
The development regulations of the city, adopted by the mayor and council March 14, 1988, as amended, together with all subsequent editions and revisions thereto, is incorporated into this Code as fully as if set out at length. A current copy of the development regulations shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk where it shall be available for public inspection.
(Code 2001, § 8-5-1; Ord. of 6-10-1996)
Sec. 101-2. - Zoning resolution incorporated by reference.
The zoning resolution of the city, adopted by the mayor and council April 14, 1986, as amended, together with all subsequent editions and revisions thereto, is incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length. A current copy of the zoning resolution shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk where it shall be available for public inspection.
(Code 2001, § 8-6-1; Ord. of 6-10-1996)
Sec. 101-3. - Zoning of annexed territory.
(a)
All territory which has been annexed to the city shall automatically retain the same zoning classification as was designated by the former governing authority until otherwise amended by the city council after a public hearing and a review by the planning commission under the procedures set forth in article XVII of the zoning resolution of the city. In the event that the existing zoning district of the property is not included in the zoning resolution of the city, then the zoning district most similar will take effect until otherwise determined.
(b)
All territory which may be annexed to the city shall automatically retain the same zoning classification as was designated by the former governing authority until otherwise amended by the city council after a public hearing and a review by the planning commission under the procedures set forth in article XVII of the zoning resolution of the city. In the event that the existing zoning district of the property is not included in the zoning resolution of the city, then the zoning district most similar will take effect until otherwise determined.
(c)
No building permit shall be issued by the city unless the property is zoned appropriately for the proposed use.
(Code 2001, § 8-6-2; Ord. of 5-14-1990)
Sec. 101-4. - Department of zoning compliance.
(a)
Composition. The department of zoning compliance shall consist of the zoning compliance supervisor, who shall be the head of the department, and all employees assigned thereto by the mayor and council.
(b)
Appointment of the supervisor. The zoning compliance supervisor shall be appointed by the mayor and council, and shall have control and supervision over all officers and employees assigned to the department. The zoning compliance supervisor shall report to the mayor and council, and in the event a city manager is appointed, shall report directly to that individual.
(c)
Duties of the supervisor. The zoning compliance supervisor shall have the following duties:
(1)
To be responsible for enforcing compliance with the zoning resolution of the City of Lilburn, city code sections, the wetland protection ordinance and the Metropolitan River Protection Act by conducting field inspections;
(2)
To manage the functions of the department of zoning compliance;
(3)
To supervise other zoning compliance officers or employees of the department;
(4)
To coordinate functions with other departments of the city and with government agencies to achieve compliance with regulations;
(5)
To represent the department in court regarding citations and appeals;
(6)
To respond to all levels of complaints of alleged violations of city ordinances;
(7)
To prepare written reports and maintain a data base of records;
(8)
To plan and manage the implementation of new procedures and program improvements consistent with city policies;
(9)
To prepare annual budget requests to include making recommendations for allocation of funds to meet the department needs;
(10)
To make presentations to the mayor and council when appropriate; and
(11)
To perform such additional duties as may be assigned from time to time by the mayor.
(d)
Compensation. The compensation for the zoning compliance supervisor shall be established by the mayor and council.
(Code 2001, § 8-6-3; Ord. of 6-12-2000)
