ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 7.10. - Bonds for officials.
The officers and employees of this city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by law.
Section 7.11. - Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations.
Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of this city not in conflict with this charter shall continue in force, unless repealed or amended, for two years from the effective date of this charter. During such two-year period, the city council shall review all such provisions and shall readopt, repeal, or amend each, so that a codification as provided by subsection (b) of Section 2.26 is accomplished.
Section 7.12. - Existing personnel and officers.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all personnel and officers of the city and their rights, privileges, and powers shall continue beyond the time this charter takes effect for a period of 60 days before or during which the existing city council shall pass a transition ordinance detailing the changes in personnel and appointive officers required or desired and arranging such titles, rights, privileges and powers as may be required or desired to allow a reasonable transition.
Section 7.13. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the city council.
Section 7.14. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
Section 7.15. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Section 7.16. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Section 7.17. - Specific repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Lilburn in the County of Gwinnett, approved in 1980 (Ga. L. 1980, p. 3164), is hereby repealed in its entirety and all amendatory Acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety.
Section 7.18. - General repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
