CHAPTER IV. - FINANCE AND FISCAL
ARTICLE I. - TAXATION

Sec. 4.10. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for State or County purposes, assessed as of January 1 of each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the City of Tallapoosa. The Mayor and Council shall use the County assessment for the year in which the City taxes are to be levied and shall request the County to furnish appropriate information for such purpose.
State Law reference— Ad valorem taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 4.11. - Tax levy.
The Mayor and Council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the Corporate Limits of the City for the purpose of raising revenue to defray the costs of operating the City Government, providing governmental services and for any other public purpose as determined by the Council. The Council is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations. The City of Tallapoosa is hereby exempted from the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 92-4101—92-4104, inclusive, and subsequent amendments to same.
Sec. 4.12. - Tax due dates and tax bills.
The Mayor and Council shall provide by ordinance when the taxes of the City shall fall due and in what length of time said taxes shall be paid. The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for the payment of taxes due to the City in installments, or in one lump sum, and when and how and upon what terms such taxes shall be due and payable, as well as to authorize the payment of taxes prior to the time when due. The terms and methods of payment and collection of City taxes shall be in the manner as the Mayor and Council may determine by ordinance.
Sec. 4.13. - Tax execution, interest, costs.
If said City taxes are not paid by the date the same become delinquent, then execution shall be issued in the name of the City by the City Clerk. Said Tax execution shall bear interest from said delinquent date at the rate of seven per cent per annum. A cost fee of $2.50 for issuance of the execution is hereby authorized which cost shall be added to said execution.
Editor's note— The interest rate for the delinquent charge is currently ten percent. The cost fee for issuance of the execution is currently $10.00 and may be periodically changed by the clerk.
Sec. 4.14. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the City Clerk and executed by any police officer of the City under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from the Superior Court, or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property upon which City property taxes are levied as of the assessment date of each year, which lien shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those of Federal, State or County taxes. In cases of hardship, the Mayor and Council shall have discretionary authority to waive any and all penalties imposed by this Charter on delinquent taxes, fees, assessments or on other amounts due to the City.
Sec. 4.15. - Occupational taxes.
The Mayor and Council by ordinance shall have full power to levy such specific or occupation taxes upon residents of the City of Tallapoosa, both individual and corporate, and on all those who transact or offer to transact business therein, or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the Mayor and Council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience, or advantage of the City; to classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure licenses; to compel the payment of such licenses by execution or any other lawful manner; and to make laws and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof.
State Law reference— Regulatory fees, O.C.G.A § 48-13-9.
Sec. 4.16. - Water and sewer service charges; lien.
The Mayor and Council by ordinance shall have the right, power and authority to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for water and sewer services rendered both within and without the Corporate Limits of the City to provide for the cost and expense of providing for the collection and disposal of sewage through the sewerage facilities of said City. If unpaid, said water or sewer service charge shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for County and City property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for City property taxes.
Sec. 4.17. - Sanitary and health service charge; lien.
The Mayor and Council shall have authority by ordinance to provide for, to enforce, to levy and to collect the cost of sanitary and health services necessary in the operation of the City, from all individuals, firms and corporations residing in or doing business in said City benefiting from such service. Such authority shall include the power to assess, levy and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount or amounts, and based upon and in accordance with such classifications of property and or sanitary service or services provided, as may be fixed by ordinance. Said sanitary taxes and the assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect to which said taxes are so assessed, and the owner or owners thereof, superior to all other liens except liens for County and City property taxes, and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for City property taxes.
Sec. 4.18. - Special assessments; lien.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power and authority to assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, draining, or improving any public ways, streets, sidewalks, sewers, or utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, and to provide a method of payment of such assessments and penalties for non-payment, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for County and City property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided herein or by ordinance for City property taxes.
Sec. 4.19. - Gas, water and sanitation funds.
The Mayor and Council shall establish three separate funds for revenues derived from gas, water and sanitation services. The governing authority of the City shall prepare monthly operating statements for each such fund evidencing the revenues received each month for the services provided. Depreciation of fixed assets accounted for in such funds shall be recorded in the accounts of the appropriate fund.
(1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1163), page 4363, § 1)
ARTICLE II. - BORROWING

Sec. 4.20. - General obligation bonds.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter and the Constitution and Laws of the State of Georgia. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 4.21. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue Bonds may be issued by the Mayor and Council as now or hereafter provided by the Laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE III. - ACCOUNTING AND BUDGETING

Sec. 4.30. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year beginning April 1, 1978, shall extend only to August 31, 1978. Henceforth, the fiscal year for the City of Tallapoosa shall be September 1 to the following August 31. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, institution, agency and activity of the City Government, unless otherwise provided by State or Federal law.
(1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1163), page 4363, § 2)
Sec. 4.31. - Preparation of budgets; budgetary system.
The Mayor and Council may provide by ordinance the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget and a capital improvement budget, including requirements as to scope, content and form of such budgets; provided, however, that the Mayor and Council shall adopt a budgetary encumbrance and control system for the General Fund and the Revenue Sharing Fund. The system shall encompass, but shall not be limited to, the following procedures:
(a)
Determination of revenues. Anticipated revenues of the General Fund shall be computed. Unless a new source of revenues has been legally enacted, the anticipated revenues should not exceed the prior year. Revenues of the prior year which exceeded the expenditures of that year can be properly included as available for appropriation in the new year.
(b)
Appropriation of revenues. All expenditures of the new year must be appropriated. Adoption of a line-item budget by the Council will serve as the appropriation. For any item to exceed the amount appropriated, a formal approval by the Council will be necessary.
(c)
Recording appropriations. All appropriations shall be recorded in the ledger of the General Fund and Revenue Sharing Fund. It shall be the responsibility of the financial officer to notify the Council of items that are in excess of the appropriation.
(d)
Reallocation or additional appropriations. The Council shall be authorized to increase appropriations, provide for new appropriations and eliminate prior appropriations.
(1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1163), page 4363, § 3)
Sec. 4.32. - Additional appropriations.
The Mayor and Council may by ordinance make supplemental appropriations from revenues in excess of those estimated in the budget or make revisions in the operating budget at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose.
Sec. 4.33. - Lapse of appropriations.
All unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget shall lapse at the end of the fiscal year.
Sec. 4.34. - Independent audit.
The Mayor and Council shall provide for an independent annual audit of all accounts of the City and may provide for such more frequent audits as it deems necessary. Such audit shall be made by certified public accountant or firm of such accountants who have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal affairs of the City or of any of its officers. The Mayor and Council may, without requiring competitive bids, designate such accountant or firm annually or for a period not exceeding three years, provided that the designation for any particular fiscal year should be made no later than thirty days after the beginning of such fiscal year.
ARTICLE IV. - PROCUREMENT AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 4.40. - Contracting procedures.
The Mayor and Council shall prescribe by ordinance such rules and regulations as may be necessary to govern the authorization and execution of contracts which shall bind the City, except the City Manager shall have such power as provided in Chapter III, Article II, Section 3.23.(10) of this Charter. All contracts and all ordinances or resolutions making contracts, when deemed advisable by the Mayor and Council, shall be submitted to the City Attorney before authorization by the Mayor and Council. Except where otherwise provided by law, or by this Charter or by ordinance of the Council, all contracts of the City shall be signed by the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem or by some person designated by the Mayor and Council and shall be authenticated by the City Clerk.
Sec. 4.41. - Centralized purchasing.
The Mayor and Council may by ordinance set forth procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the City.
Sec. 4.42. - Sale and disposition of property.
(a)
The Mayor and Council are hereby authorized to sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the City of Tallapoosa for governmental or other purposes, which is declared obsolete, surplus or unusable; at public or private sale, with or without advertisement, for such consideration as said Mayor and Council shall deem equitable and fair to the City; provided, however, no public utility owned or operated by the City shall be sold by the Mayor and Council unless such sale shall first be approved by a majority vote of the electors of the City of Tallapoosa voting in a special election called and held for the purpose.
(b)
The Mayor and Council may quit claim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the City Manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public purposes and that the interest of the City has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place in the City, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the City, the Mayor and Council may authorize the execution and deliverance in the name of the City a deed conveying said cut off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the City has in such property, notwithstanding no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
(d)
The Mayor and Council may by ordinance provide a method of closing streets, disposition of said streets, by sale or otherwise, and all matters and procedures relative thereto. The Mayor and Council shall have the same authority and power regarding lanes and alleys not in conflict with the general law of this State.
Sec. 4.43. - Officer or employee selling to City.
In cases where any officer or employee of the City or agency thereof who, for himself or in behalf of any business entity, sells any property to the City of Tallapoosa, said transactions shall be documented as required by ordinance of the Council and shall be filed with the City Clerk. Such transactions shall be a matter of public record.
(1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1163), page 4363, § 4)
