APPENDIX C - 2021 JOINT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UPDATE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the 2021 Joint Comprehensive Plan Update as adopted by Brantley County on June 3, 2021. Amendments to the ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation.

I. - Chapter 110-12-1. Minimum Standards and Procedures for Local Comprehensive Planning

1. - Introduction
new
The 2021 Comprehensive Plan Update for Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta was prepared in accordance with the Rules of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs Chapter 110-12-1, Minimum Standards and Procedures for Local Comprehensive Planning, effective October 1, 2018.
As required by the Local Comprehensive Planning Standards, the 2021 Comprehensive Plan Update for Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta consists of the following elements:
1.
Community Goals
2.
Needs and Opportunities
3.
Broadband Services Element
4.
Community Work Program
5.
Economic Development Element (As a community included in the Georgia Job Tax Credit Tier 1 category) Although a separate summarized economic development element is included in this Comprehensive Plan, which by reference adopts the current regional Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS), any economic development goals, policies, needs, opportunities, and objectives pertaining to Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta have also been integrated directly into their parallel components in this Comprehensive Plan.
6.
Land Use Element - (As communities with zoning or equivalent land development regulations subject to the Zoning Procedures Law) Brantley County has adopted a zoning ordinance while the City of Hoboken and the City of Nahunta have not yet done so.
2. - Community Involvement
new
All of the required elements have been developed with multiple opportunities for involvement and input from stakeholders throughout the Comprehensive Plan Update for Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta. The following steps were taken to ensure the plan reflects the full range of needs and opportunities from the many stakeholders and residents in Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta:
a)
Stakeholders were identified. These included:
• The local governments' elected officials and staff
• Local educational institutions (Brantley County Board of Education)
• Public Safety departments
• Local businesses and industries
• Watershed groups, specifically the Satilla Riverkeeper
• The general public
b)
Participation techniques were identified. Techniques used included a kick-off public information meeting, printed public information in local newspapers, and information on the Southern Georgia Regional Commission's website and local government websites. Below is an example of the local government announcements on the Brantley County website:
c)
A participation program was conducted. Identified stakeholders were invited and attended, yielding specific input in plan content. Stakeholders participated in the three workshops and via email and telephone conversation to provide input and feedback.
d)
Public participation activities were documented with workshop and public meeting photographs, sign-in sheets, and published advertisements in the plan and plan appendix.
1st Public Hearing - "Kick-Off"
The public hearing kicking off the comprehensive planning process was held on September 3, 2020 in the Brantley County Commissioners Meeting Room. It was held for the purpose of making any potential stakeholders and residents aware of the comprehensive plan update and review; to explain the purpose of the update; and to encourage residents and other stakeholders to actively participate in the plan update.
3. - Identification of participation techniques
new
The following participation techniques were utilized during the update process:
Public Hearings
Workshops
E-mail and telephone correspondence with stakeholders
Special Webpage on SGRC website
Dissemination of information in the newspaper and on local government websites
As the Covid-19 pandemic was underway during the development of this plan, social distancing measures and mask wearing were encouraged during in-person workshops and hearings.
4. - Participation Program
new
A foundational principle utilized by the Southern Georgia Regional Commission in all of its planning projects is public and stakeholder participation from, and coordination with, multiple and diverse interest groups. Outreach to the public, local governments and other stakeholders and interested parties was accomplished by e-mail correspondence, direct communication, the project website, and updates provided at workshops and at other group meetings. Opportunity for public comment was provided during the public hearings.
In addition to the two required public hearings, SGRC held a series of three workshops to discuss several elements of the plan. The first workshop, held on November 9, 2020 was used to review the existing goals, needs, and opportunities. Attendees participated in a SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats) analysis (a summary is provided in the Appendix) and updated the list of goals, needs, and opportunities. Copies of the sign-in sheets are provided in the appendix along with public hearing notices.
1stWorkshop (SWOT ANALYSIS)
2ndWorkshop
Policies & Work Program Accomplishments
The Policies and Report of Accomplishments were developed in the second workshop, held on December 14, 2020, along with the draft of the updated Community Work Program. The Community Work Program was developed by the participants to include specific action items and projects that would be feasible for the County and the individual communities to implement should funding become available.
3rdWorkshop
Land Use Element/Character Area
The third workshop, held on March 22, 2021 was utilized to discuss the new Broadband Element and to update the Land Use Element and Maps as desired by the local governments.
Following the third workshop, staff spoke individually with each community to review the applicable Community Work Plans and Land Use maps/Character Area descriptions and designations.
Final Public Hearing
A final public hearing was held on April 8, 2021. The final draft of the plan was reviewed and public comment was sought. As a result of this hearing, the draft plan was transmitted to the Department of Community Affairs for review.
Adoption
Brantley County adopted the plan on June 3, 2021; Hoboken and Nahunta adopted it on June 1 and June 17, 2021, respectively.
5. - Consideration of Regional Water Plan and Environmental Planning Criteria
new
During the preparation of the Comprehensive Plan, the local governments must review both the Regional Water Plan covering its area and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources Rules for Environmental Planning Criteria, as laid out in Chapter 391-3-16, to determine whether any local implementation practices or development regulations need to be adapted to be consistent with both.
Suwannee-Satilla Regional Water Plan
Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta are within the area of the Suwannee-Satilla Regional Water Plan, which was adopted in September 2017.
Source: Suwannee-Satilla Regional Water Plan
The Suwannee-Satilla Regional Water Plan has identified 13 goals, listed below, to implement its vision of managing water resources in a sustainable manner under Georgia's regulated riparian and reasonable use laws in order to support the state's and region's economy, protect public health and natural resources, and enhance the quality of life for all citizens; while preserving the private property rights of Georgia's landowners, and in consideration of the need to enhance resource augmentation and efficiency opportunities.
Suwannee-Satilla Regional Water Plan Goals:
1.
Manage and develop water resources to sustainably and reliably meet domestic, commercial, industrial water needs, and agricultural water needs including all agricultural sectors (this includes the agricultural/forestry economy of the region).
2.
Manage groundwater and surface water to encourage sustainable economic and population growth in the region.
3.
Manage the region's and state's water resources in a manner that preserves and protects private property rights.
4.
Ensure an adequate water supply of suitable quality to meet current and future human needs, while protecting environmental resources.
5.
Identify opportunities to optimize existing and future supplies, and water and wastewater infrastructure.
6.
Promote efficient use and management of surface and groundwater resources to allow for sufficient supplies for current and future generations.
7.
Protect and manage surface and groundwater recharge areas to ensure sufficient long term water supplies for the region.
8.
Protect, maintain, and where appropriate and practicable, identify opportunities to enhance water quality and river base flows.
9.
Protect and maintain regional water-dependent recreational opportunities.
10.
Identify opportunities to manage stormwater to improve water quantity and quality.
11.
Identify and implement cost-effective water management strategies.
12.
Seek to provide economically affordable power and water resource service to all citizens of the region.
13.
Identify and implement actions to better measure and share water use data and information.
In addition, the Regional Water Plan has adopted several Short-Term Water Quantity and Water Quality Management Practices, which the local comprehensive plan should include in order to manage water resources in a sustainable manner through the planning period and beyond. The most significant issues in the Suwannee-Satilla Region are surface water availability gaps driven by agricultural usage. As such, the majority of water supply management practices are intended to address agricultural surface water use.
Future work program activities in this plan related to water quality management practices mentioned in the Regional Water Plan are highlighted in italics following the practices below.
Short Term Water Quantity Management Practices (0-10 Years)
1.
Utilize surface water and groundwater sources within the available resource capacities.
2.
Water conservation.
3.
Data collection and research to confirm the frequency, duration, severity, and drivers of surface water gaps (forecast methodology assumptions and Resource Assessment modeling).
4.
Evaluate and ensure that current and future surface water permit conditions do not contribute to 7Q10 low flow concerns.
5.
Encourage sustainable groundwater use as a preferred supply in regions with surface water 7Q10 low flow concerns and adequate groundwater supply.
6.
Identify incentives and a process to sustainably replace a portion of existing agricultural surface water use with groundwater use to address 7Q10 low flow concerns.
7.
Evaluate the potential to use existing storage to address 7Q10 low flow concerns.
8.
Education to reduce surficial aquifer groundwater use impacts to 7Q10 low flow Concerns.
Short-Term Water Quality Management Practices (0—10 Years):
1.
Point Sources:
- Support and fund current permitting and waste load allocation process to improve the treatment of wastewater and increase treatment capacity.
- Data collection and research to confirm discharge volumes and waste concentrations as well as receiving stream flows and chemistry
2.
Non-Point Sources:
- Data collection to confirm the source of pollutants and causes; encourage stormwater ordinances, septic system maintenance, and coordinated planning
- Ensure funding and support for local and state Best Management Practices programs, including urban/suburban, rural, forestry, and agricultural Best Management Practices
3.
Non-point Source Existing Impairments:
- Total maximum daily load listed streams: Improve data on the source of pollutant and length of impairment; identify opportunities to leverage funds, and implement non-point source Best Management Practices
Longer Term (20—40 years) water quantity and quality management practices include:
• Improve the infiltration and management of wetlands
• Evaluate incentive-based programs to manage, increase, and restore wastewater and stormwater returns
• Identify potential/feasibility of a multi-purpose reservoir
• Identify the feasibility of regional inter-basin transfer
• Continue wastewater and stormwater master planning
Chapter 391-3-16, Rules for Environmental Planning Criteria
The Environmental Planning Criteria that are part of the Minimum Planning Standards deal specifically with the protection of water supply watersheds, groundwater recharge areas, wetlands, river corridors, and mountains, the last of which is not applicable in this region. These criteria were developed by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (GDNR) as mandated in Part V of the Georgia Planning Act and in the Mountains and River Corridor Protection Act.
The criteria require that local governments shall identify existing and future water supply watersheds and adopt a water supply watershed protection plan for their jurisdiction. Some uses may be grandfathered, such as land uses existing prior to the adoption of a watershed plan, mining activities permitted by GDNR, certain utility placements, special forestry, or agricultural services.
The environmental guidelines also spell out criteria for the delineation of small and large water supply watersheds, for the protection of groundwater recharge areas, for the protection of wetlands, and for the protection of river corridors. These criteria shall be incorporated into this comprehensive plan and addressed specifically and in more detail through local ordinances and land development code regulations.
EXPAND
Brantley County Work Program Items Related to Regional Water Plan
Create a clean-up program targeting illicit discharge and littering.
Conduct a Natural Resource Conservation education program for citizens, developers and local officials.
Develop a plan for preserving and marketing resources for eco-tourism.
Repair boat ramps along the Satilla River.
  II. Plan - Elements

1. - Community Goals and Vision
new
Vision
Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta endeavor to be a thriving and vibrant community. The County and Cities seek to supply quality education for all citizens, offer various housing options, create a thriving diverse economy, and find creative ways to capitalize upon the County's strategic location and unique natural resources.
Community Goals
1.
Minimize impacts of development on natural and cultural resources.
2.
Consider the impacts of development on the local economy, particularly the agricultural industry.
3.
Ensure that all residents within Brantley County have access to affordable housing.
4.
Consider the impact of development to the functionality of the floodplain, and ensure that new development is protected from flooding.
5.
Consider the suitability of soils for septic systems and proposed development.
6.
Ensure that future development is coordinated appropriately with water and sanitary sewer service areas.
7.
Enhance the availability of energy sources, including natural gas to increase cost effectiveness for residents and business owners.
8.
Understand and manage expectations for growth.
9.
Maintain communication between each jurisdiction and surrounding counties in an effort to better serve the residents of Brantley County.
10.
Increase educational and recreational opportunities.
11.
Ensure all community residents have access to critical goods, community services, and safe, clean neighborhoods.
12.
Maintain broadband infrastructure to support educational opportunities and economic development.
13.
Consider the impact of development to the transportation system as well as local transportation plans and projects. Provide a safe and efficient integrated multi-modal transportation system including Greenways, Bikeways, and Blueways addressing the future needs of Brantley County businesses, residents, and visitors.
2. - Needs and Opportunities
new
The Needs and Opportunities listed in this section were developed through discussions with stakeholders; from the experiences of stakeholders; through analysis of statistical data and information; and through review and revision as applicable of the needs and opportunities identified in the 2016 Joint Comprehensive Plan Update for Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta. Each of the following needs and opportunities is addressed by corresponding policies in the "Community Policies" section.
Natural Resources
Needs
• Open spaces are not under long-term protection and/or do not have long-term plans for programming.
• There is a lack of conservation of resources and organized efforts to minimize waste, such as a recycling program.
• Existing dirt roads adjacent to the Satilla River experience heavy flooding during rain events.
Opportunities
• The County and Cities can work together to preserve prime agricultural land and existing open space.
• Identify the county's natural resources and develop ways to protect and market them.
• Develop natural resource conservation and protection education for citizens, local officials, and developers.
• Incorporate walking trails, bike trails, and riding trails in greenspace.
• Creative methods to address wastewater needs adjacent to the Satilla River need to be developed in coordination with the Health Dept.
• A recycling effort could be initiated between the county and cities in coordination with non-profits and the private sector.
• A conservation corridor could be designated along the Satilla River to prevent future development on the river, in wetland areas, and in the floodplain.
Cultural Resources
Needs
• The County and Cities do not have an ordinance to preserve historic homes and other historic sites.
Opportunities
• Develop a list of the historic sites in the community.
Economic Development
Needs
• There is a lack of employment opportunities.
• There is a lack of name recognition; Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta need to become better known outside of the local area in order to attract businesses and tourism.
Opportunities
• The local economy could be stimulated through downtown revitalization and infill development in the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta.
• Promote local eco-tourism (especially the Satilla River Water Trail for canoeing, boating, fishing, and educational opportunities) and historic-based tourism with marketing, festivals, and events.
• The Brantley County Development Authority is a good resource for businesses.
• The provision of natural gas service would make the county more marketable to businesses.
• Capitalize on proximity to major ports (the Ports of Brunswick, Jacksonville, and Savannah), and on proximity to I-95 and other major highways such as US-1, US-82, and US-301.
• The community should be marketed on major transportation corridors in the region, for example by exit signage on I-95.
• Updated county and city websites would enable more public engagement and involvement in the community.
Housing
Needs
• There is a lack of special needs housing (for the elderly, handicapped, etc.).
• There is a lack of clean, safe affordable housing.
• There are code enforcement issues with existing housing.
Opportunities
• Create rehabilitation programs and incentive programs for affordable infill housing, and offer homebuyer education programs.
Community Facilities and Services
Needs
• The County and Cities face limitations in meeting the future demands of a growing population.
• The County needs improvements in storm water management due to the great deal of flooding that occurs with heavy rains.
• There is a need for a community meeting facility that will also double as an Emergency Operations Center (EOP) and Joint Training Facility.
• Some dirt roads still lack adequate drainage because of problems created by erosion, sedimentation, and storm water runoff.
• Natural gas service could be a more cost affordable energy source than options currently available.
Opportunities
• Vacant buildings in downtown Nahunta could be redeveloped.
• LMIG funds could be utilized to pave dirt roads on a regular schedule.
Land Use
Needs
• Population growth is expected in upcoming years, which may present several issues for Brantley County's provision of services, environment, and quality of life.
Opportunities
• The City of Hoboken and the City of Nahunta have the opportunity to develop land development regulations.
• Preserve open space to be used as parks and greenspace.
• Encourage traditional neighborhood development.
• Create mixed-use neighborhoods by locating small stores, such as local markets, within easy walking distance of residences.
Intergovernmental Coordination
Needs
• Improve communication and inclusion between government, agencies, authorities, business, and citizens in the crafting of and implementation of plans.
Opportunities
• The county and the cities could collaborate and share resources for the provision of information to residents.
Education
Needs
• Employer needs are not being met for employee training.
• Workforce development needs to be prioritized - employers have a difficult time finding qualified personnel who will stay on the job.
Opportunities
• Training and workforce partnerships could be developed between the board of Education and local colleges to better prepare the workforce for career opportunities and employer needs.
• Partner with local community colleges and technical colleges to provide satellite classes and courses for community residents.
Health
Needs
• The community needs a Critical Care Facility for stabilizing patients.
• There is a lack of recreational opportunities.
Opportunities
• Grant opportunities could be explored to determine if state and/or private funds are available to increase recreational opportunities.
Broadband Services
Needs
• More affordable broadband access is needed throughout all of Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta.
Opportunities
• More affordable broadband services may enable greater opportunity for citizens and businesses.
• Public/Private Partnerships could be developed to provide broadband coverage for low income populations.
Transportation
Needs
• There is a lack of local and state funding to support resurfacing and maintenance of local roads.
• There is a lack of state funds and maintenance on existing state roads.
• There is a lack of a safe pedestrian, bicyclist, and golf cart transportation environment.
Opportunities
• Seek the development of additional bicycle and/or multi-use trails.
• Seek the development of additional sidewalk infrastructure.
• Seek the development of additional blueways and water trails.
3. - Analysis of Data and Information
new
Brantley County
The estimated 2019 population of Brantley County is 19,109. [2] This is an estimated increase of 698 residents since the 2010 Census; indicating a slightly increasing population. Brantley County is part of the Brunswick, Georgia Metropolitan Statistical Area. There are an estimated 8,119 housing units in Brantley County, with approximately 54.8% of these as mobile homes. 93.7% of the population are White and 3.5% are Black or African American. 2.1% of the population are Hispanic or Latino .
The median age in Brantley County is 40.9, compared with a median US age of 37.8. [3] The median household income is $37,031. The median home value is $68,200 for owner occupied units. The homeowner vacancy rate is 0.8% while the rental vacancy rate is 4%. The percentage of occupied housing units with no vehicle available is 3.7%.
City of Hoboken
The estimated 2018 population of the City of Hoboken is 762. [4] This is an increase of approximately 234 residents since the 2010 Census; an increase of 31%. There are an estimated 241 housing units in the City of Hoboken. 73.8% of the population are White and 26.2% are Black or African American.
The median age in the City of Hoboken is 33.1. The median household income is not available. [5] The median home value is $176,200. The vacant housing unit rate is 7.1%. The percentage of occupied housing units with no vehicle available is 9.4%.
City of Nahunta
The estimated 2018 population of the City of Nahunta is 775. [6] This is an estimated decrease of approximately 278 residents since the 2010 Census; indicating a declining population. There are an estimated 403 housing units in the City of Nahunta. 80.3% of the population are White and 14.8% are Black or African American.
The median age in the City of Nahunta is 38 [7] The median household income is $19,565. The median home value is $67,000. The percentage of occupied housing units with no vehicle available is 13.7%.
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
U.S. Census Bureau, Population Estimates Program, 2019
U.S. Census Bureau, 2010 Census, Population Estimates Program, 2019
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Total Housing Units, 2014-2018
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Race, 2014—2018
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Race, 2014—2018

--- (3) ---
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Sex and Age, 2014—2018
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Income and Benefits, 2014—2018
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Median Value (Dollars), 2014—2018
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Housing Occupancy, 2014—2018
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Vehicles Available, 2014—2018

--- (4) ---
U.S. Census Bureau, Population Estimates Program, 2018
U.S. Census Bureau, 2010 Census, General Population and Housing Characteristics
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Total Housing Units, 2013—2017
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Race, 2013—2017

--- (5) ---
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Income and Benefits, 2013—2017
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Median Value (Dollars), 2013—2017
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Housing Occupancy, 2013—2017
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Vehicles Available, 2013—2017

--- (6) ---
U.S. Census Bureau, Population Estimates Program, 2018
U.S. Census Bureau, 2010 Census, General Population and Housing Characteristics, 2013—2017
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Total Housing Units, 2013—2017
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Race, 2013—2017

--- (7) ---
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Sex and Age, 2013-2017
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Income and Benefits, 2013-2017
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Median Value (Dollars), 2013—2017
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Vehicles Available, 2013-2017

4. - Broadband Element
new
The Georgia legislature, in recognition of the importance of broadband infrastructure to the vitality of communities passed the Achieving Connectivity Everywhere (ACE) Act (SB 402) in 2018. The Act provides for broadband services, [8] planning, deployment, and incentives, along with other purposes. It also requires comprehensive plans to include the promotion of the deployment of broadband services. Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta recognize the importance of broadband expansion to economic development and quality of life for residents.
Provision of broadband services enables access by residents to a number of vital services such as healthcare, economic opportunity, and education. Expansion of rural broadband along with improvement in the provision of broadband services can address concerns of resident out-migration. Effective and efficient broadband enables internet-based businesses to succeed in the global economy. It is difficult to educate upcoming generations of students in web literacy and digital skills training without adequate broadband speed and connectivity. The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of home broadband availability, affordability, and quality as all students and many workers studied and worked remotely.
The latest data shown in Map 1 below identifies less than 1% of the locations in Brantley County as unserved. This analysis is based on a broadband availability map made available in June, 2020. The new map utilizes more granular data than the previously utilized FCC map.
Map 1: Served & Unserved Areas in Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta
County statistics are based on a fixed, terrestrial broadband definition of 25 megabits per second down and 3 megabits per second up. Populated areas that did not meet this definition are delineated in Map 1 (above) as "Unserved". There is very little area in Brantley County that is considered unserved.
80.9% of households in Brantley County are estimated to have a computer, compared to 88.6% of households statewide. [9] Broadband internet subscriptions in the County are held by 62.3% of households, compared to 79.4% within the state.
Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta recognize there are many barriers for private broadband services providers to effectively roll-out necessary broadband infrastructure in rural areas of the State. City and County leaders recognize the importance of broadband quality for industry retention and recruitment within this small, rural community. Community leaders continuously seek improvement in the quality of life for the rural residents of the Cities and County. Industry relocation and business creation are dependent on the necessary infrastructure being in place and being affordable. The lack of affordable broadband infrastructure is a major impediment to not only recruitment but also for the expansion of established local industry. The Broadband Ready Community and Site designation has been established to incentivize private investment in the provision of rural broadband services. Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta plan to apply for these designations and signal to the State and to private Internet Service Providers their prioritization of rural broadband improvement, increase in affordability, and expansion in the community.
Broadband Action Plan
Brantley County is located within rural South Georgia. The County has a level of broadband penetration not seen in the majority of the region. However, the provision of education, access to vital information, and health services demands a certain level of affordable broadband infrastructure. While the large majority of the county enjoys service by broadband infrastructure, a more in-depth analysis could show that this minimal level of 25 megabits per second down and 3 megabits per second up is not sufficient for the higher-speed uses of broadband technology such as for business, education, health, and entertainment. Goal 12 of this Comprehensive Plan seeks the maintenance of broadband infrastructure to support educational opportunities and economic development. This plan identifies the following Needs and Opportunities related to the provision of broadband infrastructure (also see Section 2):
Needs
• More affordable broadband access is needed throughout all of Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta.
Opportunities
• More affordable broadband services may enable greater opportunity for citizens and businesses.
• Public/Private Partnerships could be developed to provide broadband coverage for low income populations.
The following needs and community policies in this plan relate to the provision of broadband infrastructure:
Need #1.   More affordable broadband access is needed throughout all of Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta.
Policy 12.1 Enable public/private partnerships to reduce the cost of broadband service in Brantley County.
The above need and policy has been used to inform an action plan to support the deployment of broadband services into unserved and underserved areas of Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta. The specific action items in the action plan are listed below and are cross-listed in the Community Work Programs of the appropriate jurisdictions (see Section 7).
Broadband Action Steps
EXPAND
Activity FY2
2 FY2
3 FY2
4 FY2
5 FY2
6 Responsible
Party Estimated
Cost Funding
Source
Provide adequate high speed broadband access for local industries, commercial businesses, residences, and community facilities. x x x x x Brantley County, Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta, Public/Private Partnership $1,000,000—
$10,000,000 General Fund, SPLOST, grants, private funding
Adopt a Broadband Ordinance. x x x x x Brantley County, Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta, Public/Private Partnership Staff time General Fund
Apply for Broadband Ready Certification. x x x x x Brantley County, Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta, Public/Private Partnership Staff time General Fund
Review and reduce any obstacles to roll-out or development of broadband infrastructure. x x x x x Brantley County, Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta, Public/Private Partnership Staff time General Fund
  Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
As defined in O.C.G.A. §50-40-1. Definitions. "Broadband services" means a wired or wireless terrestrial service that consists of the capability to transmit at a rate of not less than 25 megabits per second in the downstream direction and at least 3 megabits per second in the upstream direction to end users and in combination with such service provides: (A) Access to the Internet; or (B) Computer processing, information storage, or protocol conversion.

--- (9) ---
U.S. Census Bureau, 2018 American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Households with a computer, percent
U.S. Census Bureau, American Community Survey (ACS), 5-Year Estimates, Households with a broadband Internet subscription, percent, 2014-2018

5. - Consideration of DCA Community Quality Objectives
new
The Department of Community Affairs (DCA) has crafted a series of objectives dealing with a broad range of issues that concern local governments. The objectives, which are listed below, are only recommendations, but provide local governments with a tool to guide them in the assessment of their needs and opportunities and in the development of their implementation activities. If they are used as such a tool by many of the local governments in their planning efforts, these objectives also have the potential to result in consistent planning projects and goals, which may translate into greater efficiency and a better quality of life for the residents.
1.
Economic Prosperity
Encourage development or expansion of businesses and industries that are suitable for the community. Factors to consider when determining suitability include: job skills required; long-term sustainability; linkages to other economic activities in the region; impact on the resources of the area; and prospects for creating job opportunities that meet the needs of a diverse local workforce.
Notes on Consistency with Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta Comprehensive Plan
Economic development activities, which are coordinated between the County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta, are consistent with the Economic Prosperity objective. Applicable best practices include: workforce training, corridor study, tracking business needs, business incubator, evaluating business formation in the community, and economic development strategy for diversifying the local economy.
2.
Resource Management
Promote the efficient use of natural resources and identify and protect environmentally sensitive areas of the community. This may be achieved by promoting energy efficiency and renewable energy generation; encouraging green building construction and renovation; utilizing appropriate waste management techniques; fostering water conservation and reuse; or setting environmentally sensitive areas aside as green space or conservation reserves.
Notes on Consistency with Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta Comprehensive Plan
Natural Resource and Land Use goals and policies are consistent with the Resource Management objective. Applicable best practices include: water resource protection, stormwater management, conservation easements to include the setting aside of flood-prone land and preservation of regionally important resources.
3.
Efficient Land Use
Maximize the use of existing infrastructure and minimize the costly conversion of undeveloped land at the periphery of the community. This may be achieved by encouraging development or redevelopment of sites closer to the traditional core of the community; designing new development to minimize the amount of land consumed; carefully planning expansion of public infrastructure; or maintaining open space in agricultural, forestry, or conservation uses.
Notes on Consistency with Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta Comprehensive Plan
The development pattern of the County is consistent with the Efficient Land Use objective. Applicable best practices include: infill development program, adaptive reuse, and preservation of agricultural land.
4.
Local Preparedness
Identify and put in place the prerequisites for the type of future the community seeks to achieve. These prerequisites might include infrastructure (roads, water, and sewer) to support or direct new growth; ordinances and regulations to manage growth as desired; leadership and staff capable of responding to opportunities and managing new challenges; or undertaking an all-hazards approach to disaster preparedness and response.
Notes on Consistency with Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta Comprehensive Plan
Preparedness actions within the County are consistent with the Local Preparedness objective. Applicable best practices include: staff professional development, coordination with federal and state partners, all hazards strategy, and effective and reliable communications strategy.
5.
Sense of Place
Protect and enhance the community's unique qualities. This may be achieved by maintaining the downtown as focal point of the community; fostering compact, walkable, mixed-use development; protecting and revitalizing historic areas of the community; encouraging new development that is compatible with the traditional features of the community; or protecting scenic and natural features that are important to defining the community's character.
Notes on Consistency with Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta Comprehensive Plan
The downtown character of the main streets in the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta is consistent with the Sense of Place objective. Applicable best practices include: protection of natural features such as the Satilla River, prioritizing growth in areas currently served by public infrastructure (infill development), environmental resource inventory, landscaping ordinance, and code enforcement.
6.
Regional Cooperation
Cooperate with neighboring jurisdictions to address shared needs. This may be achieved by actively participating in regional organizations; identifying joint projects that will result in greater efficiency and less cost to the taxpayer; or developing collaborative solutions for regional issues such as protection of shared natural resources, development of the transportation network, or creation of a tourism plan.
Notes on Consistency with Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta Comprehensive Plan
The amount and level of collaboration between the County, Cities, and the region is consistent with the Regional Cooperation objective. Applicable best practices include: service delivery strategy, regional roundtable, communication strategy, environmental resource inventory, regional economic development efforts, and joint economic development strategy.
7.
Housing Options
Promote an adequate range of safe, affordable, inclusive, and resource-efficient housing in the community. This may be achieved by encouraging development of a variety of housing types, sizes, costs, and densities in each neighborhood; promoting programs to provide housing for residents of all socioeconomic backgrounds, including affordable mortgage finance options; instituting programs to address homelessness issues in the community; or coordinating with local economic development programs to ensure availability of adequate workforce housing in the community.
Notes on Consistency with Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta Comprehensive Plan
The Housing goals and policies of this plan are consistent with the Housing Options objective. Applicable best practices include: Georgia Initiative for Community Housing (GICH), affordable housing, creative design for higher density, cottage zoning, cluster development, accessory housing units, and workforce housing.
8.
Transportation Options
Address the transportation needs, challenges, and opportunities of all community residents. This may be achieved by fostering alternatives to transportation by automobile, including walking, cycling, and transit; employing traffic calming measures throughout the community; requiring adequate connectivity between adjoining developments; or coordinating transportation and land use decision-making within the community.
Notes on Consistency with Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta Comprehensive Plan
Transportation goals, policies, and objectives are consistent with the Transportation Options objective. Applicable best practices include: safe routes to school, complete streets, scenic byway designation, sidewalk/trail network, right of way improvements, and access control measures and management.
9.
Educational Opportunities
Make educational and training opportunities readily available to enable all community residents to improve their job skills, adapt to technological advances, manage their finances, or pursue life ambitions. This can be achieved by expanding and improving local educational institutions or programs; providing access to other institutions in the region; instituting programs to improve local graduation rates; expanding vocational education programs; or coordinating with local economic development programs to ensure an adequately trained and skilled workforce.
Notes on Consistency with Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta Comprehensive Plan
Goals, policies, and objectives of this plan are consistent with the Educational Opportunities objective. Applicable best practices include: workforce training, inmate educational opportunities, and affordable internet access for education, employment, and health needs.
10.
Community Health
Ensure that all community residents, regardless of age, ability, or income, have access to critical goods and services, safe and clean neighborhoods, and good work opportunities. This may be achieved by providing services to support the basic needs of disadvantaged residents, including the disabled; instituting programs to improve public safety; promoting programs that foster better health and fitness; or otherwise providing all residents the opportunity to improve their circumstances in life and to fully participate in the community.
Notes on Consistency with Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta Comprehensive Plan
Goals, policies, and objectives are consistent with the Community Health objective. Applicable best practices include: access to public services, parks and recreation resources, and development of trails/outdoor activity amenities.
6. - Community Policies
new
The following policies, numbered to align with the Community Goals, were developed in conjunction with all stakeholders and are intended to provide a qualitative guidance to address the Needs and Opportunities identified in this Plan, and to provide a framework for the development of the Community Work Program. The Community Work Program then addresses the Needs and Opportunities through specific projects, for each of which the participants, anticipated cost, and time frame are identified.
Development Patterns
Natural & Cultural Resources
EXPAND
Goal: Minimize impacts of development on natural and cultural resources.
Goal: Consider the impact of development to the functionality of the floodplain, and ensure that new development is protected from flooding.
Needs & Policies
The County and Cities do not have an ordinance to preserve historic homes and other historic sites.
Policy 1.1: Pursue opportunities to fund a countywide survey that will identify and record historic resources.
Policy 1.2: Encourage the development of a Historic Preservation Ordinance for the protection of locally designated historic properties.
Needs & Policies
Open spaces are not under long-term protection and/or do not have long-term plans for programming.
Policy 1.3: Encourage new development in suitable locations in order to protect natural resources.
Policy 1.4: Encourage more compact and efficient urban development and preservation of open spaces.
Policy 1.5: Ensure that the protection and conservation of the community's resources plays an important role in the decision-making process.
Policy 1.6: Pursue the establishment of bikeways and trails in and around the Satilla River area.
Policy 1.7: Encourage conservation easements to keep productive farmland in agricultural use.
There is a lack of conservation of resources and organized efforts to minimize waste, such as a recycling program.
Policy 1.8: Pursue the development of a recycling program.
Policy 1.9: Continue fiscally responsible operation of solid waste collection and disposal.
Policy 1.10: Encourage participation in annual Satilla River cleanup events.
Existing dirt roads adjacent to the Satilla River experience heavy flooding during rain events.
Policy 1.11: Encourage stewardship of the Satilla River and all natural resources within Brantley County through behavior change and outreach programs.
Economic Development
Goal: Consider the impacts of development on the local economy, particularly the agricultural industry.
Needs & Policies
There is a lack of employment opportunities.
Policy 2.1: Encourage economic development and redevelopment, to include the acquisition and development of land.
Policy 2.2: Encourage the development of the downtowns of the two cities as vibrant centers for culture, government, dining, residential use, and retail diversity.
Policy 2.3: Encourage adoption of landscaping guidelines to create a unified and pleasing visual environment.
Policy 2.4: Support programs for retention, expansion and creation of businesses that enhance the community's economic well-being.
Policy 2.5: Establish an atmosphere in which entrepreneurial enterprise is nurtured in the community.
Policy 2.6: Support and work with the Development Authority to attract new business and industry to the community.
There is a lack of name recognition; Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta need to become better known outside of the local area in order to attract businesses and tourism.
Policy 2.7: Pursue a marketing campaign to increase name recognition of the community.
Policy 2.8: Encourage niche marketing of local artists and craftsmen.
Policy 2.9: Encourage promotion of sustainable local eco-tourism, canoeing (including the Satilla River Water Trail), hiking, nature trails, bird watching, hunting, fishing, swimming, and environmental education as viable economic opportunities.
Policy 2.10: Participate in the 121, 301, and Woodpecker Trail Associations to promote US 301 as a scenic and economic development highway.
Policy 2.11: Promote the Christmas Parade, Satilla Celebration, and Sacred Harp Singing Festival to generate tourism dollars.
Housing
Goal: Ensure that all residents within Brantley County have access to affordable housing.
Needs & Policies
There is a lack of special needs housing (for the elderly, handicapped, etc.).
Policy 3.1: Accommodate the community's diverse population by encouraging a harmonious mixture of housing types and uses.
Policy 3.2: Encourage developers to include affordable homes when building a particular number of market rate homes.
Policy 3.3: Promote availability of vacant and developable land available for multifamily housing.
Policy 3.4: Encourage housing policies, choices and patterns that move people upward on the housing ladder from dependence to independence.
Policy 3.5: Encourage creation of affordable housing opportunities to ensure that all those who work in the community have a viable choice or option to live in the community.
There is a lack of clean, safe affordable housing.
Policy 3.6: Ensure new affordable housing is built to quality standards.
There are code enforcement issues with existing housing.
Policy 3.7: Explore a collaborative effort between the county and the cities in regards to code enforcement.
Community Facilities and Services
Goal: Consider the suitability of soils for septic systems and proposed development.
Goal: Ensure that future development is coordinated appropriately with water and sanitary sewer service areas.
Goal: Enhance the availability of energy sources, including natural gas to increase cost effectiveness for residents and business owners.
Needs & Policies
The County and Cities face limitations in meeting the future demands of a growing population.
Policy 4.1: Promote strategies to ensure that new development does not cause a decline in locally adopted level of service for and that capital improvements or other strategies needed to accommodate the impacts of development are made or provided for concurrent with new development.
Policy 4.2: Maintain regulations for shared/combined septic and water systems for new residential, commercial, and industrial developments.
The County needs improvements in storm water management due to the great deal of flooding that occurs with heavy rains.
Policy 4.3: Pursue opportunities to conduct a sedimentation, erosion and storm water runoff survey and pursue the creation of a plan to address those issues.
There is a need for a community meeting facility that will also double as an Emergency Operations Center (EOP) and Joint Training Facility.
Policy 4.4: Pursue funding to construct a community meeting facility adequate to serve the community's needs.
Some dirt roads still lack adequate drainage because of problems created by erosion, sedimentation, and storm water runoff.
Policy 4.5 Continue to encourage paving or grading/stabilizing and best management practices for existing dirt roads.
Policy 4.6 Continue implementing the plan to address sedimentation, erosion and storm water runoff issues.
Natural gas service could be a more cost affordable energy source than options currently available.
Policy 4.7: Explore options for encouraging the expansion of a natural gas pipeline to Brantley County. Land Use
Goal: Understand and manage expectations for growth.
Needs & Policies
Population growth is expected in upcoming years, which may present several issues for Brantley County's provision of services, environment, and quality of life.
Policy 5.1: Review population projections on a regular basis to ensure community leaders are aware of what levels of growth are expected.
Policy 5.2: Ensure that necessary services are provided concurrent with growth and are planned for in keeping with future growth.
Policy 5.3: Continually analyze the financial impact of new subdivision growth in Brantley County.
Intergovernmental Coordination
Goal: Maintain communication between each jurisdiction and surrounding counties in an effort to better serve the residents of Brantley County.
Needs & Policies
Improve communication and inclusion between government, agencies, authorities, business, and citizens in the crafting of and implementation of plans.
Policy 6.1: Encourage coordination between the County and Cities with regard to the development of plans.
Policy 6.2: Pursue joint processes for collaborative planning and decision-making.
Education
Goal: Increase educational and recreational opportunities.
Needs & Policies
Employer needs are not being met for employee training.
Policy 7.1: Strive for partnerships and alliances with other educational institutions serving Brantley County.
Policy 7.2: Strive for partnerships with local businesses and industries for increased career related student internships.
Workforce development needs to be prioritized—Employers have a difficult time finding qualified personnel who will stay on the job.
Policy 7.3: Pursue expansion of educational opportunities.
Policy 7.4: Pursue partnerships with local community colleges and technical colleges to provide satellite classes and courses for community residents.
Policy 7.5: Explore methods to offer financial literacy programs within the school system and/or through public/private partnerships with local banks and/or financial planning companies.
Policy 7.6: Determine how to best be responsive to the demands of new employers.
Policy 7.7 Perform a gap analysis to determine which education programs best meet the needs of employers.
Policy 7.8 Explore the creation of an educational program to meet needs of employers.
Health
Goal: Ensure all community residents have access to critical goods, community services, and safe, clean neighborhoods.
Needs & Policies
The community needs a Critical Care Facility for stabilizing patients.
Policy 8.1: Encourage development of health care services that meet the current and future needs of the community.
There is a lack of recreational opportunities.
Policy 8.2: Encourage parks and community facilities to be located as focal points in neighborhoods.
Policy 8.3: Encourage increased investment in existing neighborhoods.
Policy 8.4: Continue to develop existing and new recreational facilities and community centers throughout the County and Cities. Aggressively pursue grant opportunities to support the creation of a new regional park.
Broadband Services
Goal: Maintain broadband infrastructure to support educational opportunities and economic development.
Needs & Policies
More affordable broadband access is needed throughout all of Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta.
Policy 9.1: Enable public/private partnerships to reduce the cost of broadband service in Brantley County.
Transportation
Goal: Consider the impact of development to the transportation system as well as local transportation plans and projects. Provide a safe and efficient integrated multi-modal transportation system including Greenways, Bikeways, and Blueways addressing the future needs of Brantley County businesses, residents, and visitors.
Needs & Policies
There is a lack of local and state funding to support resurfacing and maintenance of local roads.
Policy 10.1: Pursue and lobby for additional funding to improve local roads, including CDBG and SPLOST funds.
Policy 10.2: Research and implement measures to develop multi-modal systems including bicycle and pedestrian safety initiatives.
There is a lack of state funds and maintenance on existing state roads.
Policy 10.3: Raise awareness of maintenance issues on existing state roads among local and State elected officials and staff.
Policy 10.4: Support the Transportation Infrastructure Act (TIA) which has enabled the regional TSPLOST.
There is a lack of a safe pedestrian, bicyclist, and golf cart transportation environment.
Policy 10.5: Promote safe, walkable neighborhoods.
Policy 10.6: Encourage neighborhoods to develop as interactive communities where people have easy access to schools, parks, residences and businesses through walkways, bike paths, roads and public transportation.
  7. - Community Work Program
new
Brantley County 5-Year Short-Term Work Program Update Report of Accomplishments
(2017 2021)
EXPAND
PROJECTS STATUS FY 17 FY 18 FY 19 FY 20 FY 21 COMMENTS
CULTURAL RESOURCES
Develop a historic preservation ordinance for protection of locally designated historic properties Ongoing X Expected completion FY26.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Acquire 200—300 acres of land for future construction of an Industrial Park Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
NATURAL RESOURCES
Conduct a Natural Resource Conservation education program for citizens, developers and local officials Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
Develop a plan for preserving and marketing resources for eco-tourism Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
Purchase and improve land for Satilla River Recreational Facilities, including public restrooms, beach, and campsite Cancelled X X X Decision was made to invest in upgrading boat ramps instead.
Enhance three existing public boat ramps along the Satilla River, with concrete repairs, picnic tables, and other improvements Complete X X
Construct 2—3 miles of bikeways and trails in and around the Satilla River area Ongoing X X X Expected completion FY26.
Install signage, kiosk, and make maps available along the Satilla River Water Trail Ongoing X Expected completion FY26.
LAND USE
Develop land use development codes and/or zoning codes for the County and Cities Complete X X X
COMMUNITY FACILITIES & SERVICES
Expand and improve recreation facilities at the Nahunta, Schlatterville, and Waynesville parks, including 4 ballfields, gymnasium, walking track, playground equipment, dock, public restrooms, lighting, and paved driveways

Ongoing X X X X X

Partially complete.
Construct a 1-mile walking trail at the Recreation Park Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
Pave approximately 22 miles of dirt roads, including CR 163, CR 63, CR 90, CR 92, CR 528, and CR 42 Ongoing X X X X X Partially complete.
Resurface approximately 15 miles of roads, including Caney Bay Rd., Riverside Rd., West Raybon Rd., Hwy 259, and Cumberland Rd.
Ongoing X X X X X
Partially complete.
Replace Humpback Bridge Ongoing X Expected completion FY26.
Purchase 5 dump trucks, 1 track
hoe, 1 bulldozer, 6 motor graders, and fueling system upgrade Complete X X X X X X
Purchase 3 new ambulances, 3 stretchers, and 3 cardio units Complete X X X
Construct 3 new fire stations Ongoing X X X Partially complete.
Purchase 80 SCBA units for firefighters Ongoing X X X X X Partially complete.
Purchase 80 air tanks for firefighters Ongoing X X X X X Partially complete.
Purchase 80 turnout gear sets for firefighters Ongoing X X X X X Partially complete.
Purchase 50-foot fire hose Complete X
Purchase 2 cascade systems Complete X X
Purchase 1 brush truck for fire dept. Complete X
Purchase 1 tanker/pumper for fire dept. Complete X
Purchase 1 rescue truck for fire dept. Complete X
Purchase 1 air truck/compressor Complete X
Construct firefighter training facility Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
Purchase 20 new police cars Ongoing X X X X X Expected completion FY26.
Renovate the Brantley County courthouse for improved accessibility and additional parking, and retrofit other existing public buildings to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
Ongoing X
Expected completion FY26.
Renovate existing building to house the County Commissioners, County Tax Assessor, and Tax Commissioner offices Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
Install taxiways, fueling system, and restroom/terminal facilities at the County Airport Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
Construct new hangars at the County Airport Ongoing X X X Expected completion FY26.
  Brantley County 5-Year Community Work Program Update
(2022—2026)
EXPAND
PROJECTS ESTIMATED COST RESPONSIBLE PARTY FUNDING SOURCE GOAL FY 22 FY 23 FY 24 FY 25 FY 26
NATURAL RESOURCES
Create a clean-up program targeting illicit discharge and littering. $10,000 Brantley County General fund, grants 1, 4 X X X X X
Conduct a Natural Resource Conservation education program for citizens, developers and local officials. $25,000 Brantley County, Satilla Riverkeeper, State agencies General fund, grants 1, 4 X X X X X
Develop a plan for preserving and marketing resources for eco-tourism. Staff time Brantley County, Historical Society, Development Authority General fund, grants 1, 4 X X X X X
Repair boat ramps along the Satilla River. $25,000 Brantley County General fund, grants 1, 4 X X X X X
CULTURAL RESOURCES
Develop a historic preservation ordinance for protection of locally designated historic properties. Staff time Brantley County General fund, grants 1 X X X X X
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Acquire 200—300 acres of land for future construction of an Industrial Park. $750,000 Brantley County, Development Authority General fund, grants, CDBG 2 X X X X X
HOUSING
Rehabilitate housing units that were not built to a sufficient standard to increase the quality of existing affordable housing. $750,000 Brantley County General fund, grants, CDBG, CHIP 3 X X X X X
COMMUNITY FACILITIES & SERVICES
Expand and improve recreation facilities at the Nahunta, Schlatterville, and Waynesville parks, including 4 ballfields, gymnasium, and playground equipment. $1,000,000 Brantley County General fund, grants, LWCF 10-11 X X X X X
Construct a 1-mile walking trail at the Recreation Park $125,000 Brantley County General fund, grants, LWCF 10-11 X X X X X
Construct firefighter training facility. $500,000 Brantley County General fund, grants 11 X X X X X
Purchase 20 new police cars. $750,000 Brantley County SPLOST, County and City General fund, grants 11 X X X X X
Renovate the Brantley County courthouse for improved accessibility and additional parking, and retrofit other existing public buildings to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
$75,000 Brantley County SPLOST, County and City General fund, grants, CDBG 11 X X X X X
Construct 3 new fire stations. $750,000 Brantley County SPLOST,
County and City General fund, grants 11 X X X X X
Purchase 80 SCBA units for firefighters. $400,000 Brantley County SPLOST,
County and City General fund, grants 11 X X X X X
Purchase 80 air tanks for firefighters. $88,000 Brantley County SPLOST,
County and City General fund, grants 11 X X X X X
Purchase 80 turnout gear sets for firefighters. $160,000 Brantley County SPLOST,
County and City General fund, grants 11 X X X X X
Renovate existing building to house the County Commissioners, County Tax Assessor, and Tax Commissioner offices. $400,000 Brantley County SPLOST,
County and City General fund, grants 11 X X X X X
Install taxiways, fueling system, and restroom/terminal facilities at the County Airport. $700,000 Brantley County SPLOST,
County and City General fund, grants 11 X X X X X
Construct new hangars at the County Airport. $400,000 Brantley County SPLOST,
County and City General fund, grants 11 X X X X X
INTERGOVERNMENTAL COORDINATION
Coordinate on shared use agreements and analyze current agreements for billing and tax collection. Staff time Brantley County, City of Hoboken, City of Nahunta General fund 9 X X X X X
EDUCATION
Pursue technical education and job-based programs. Staff time Brantley County, Development Authority, private and non-profit sector General fund 10 X X X X X
BROADBAND
Provide adequate high speed broadband access for local industries and commercial businesses. $1,000,000—
$10,000,000 Brantley County, Public/Private Partnership General fund, SPLOST,
grants, private funding 12 X X X X X
Adopt a Broadband Ordinance. Staff time Brantley County General fund 12 X X X X X
Apply for Broadband Ready Certification. Staff time Brantley County General fund 12 X X X X X
Review and reduce any obstacles to roll-out or development of broadband infrastructure. Staff time Brantley County General fund 12 X X X X X
TRANSPORTATION
Participate in discussions on the provision of regional transit. Staff time Brantley County General fund 13 X X X X X
Construct 2—3 miles of bikeways and trails in and around the Satilla River area $300,000 Brantley County General fund, grants, Satilla Riverkeeper 10,11,13 X X X X X
Install signage, kiosk, and make maps available along the Satilla River Water Trail $3,000 Brantley County General fund, Satilla Riverkeeper, grants 10,11,13 X X X X X
Resurface approximately 15 miles of roads, including Caney Bay Rd., Riverside Rd., West Raybon Rd., Hwy
259, and Cumberland Rd. $3 million Brantley County, City of Hoboken General fund, GDOT, TSPLOST 13 X X X X X
Replace Humpback Bridge. $200,000 Brantley County General fund, GDOT, TSPLOST, LMIG 13 X X X X X
Pave approximately 22 miles of dirt roads, including CR 163, CR 63, CR 90, CR 92, CR 528, and CR 42. $16,400,000 Brantley County General fund, GDOT, TSPLOST, LMIG 13 X X X X X
Install Electric Vehicle (EV) infrastructure (charging stations, conduit, signage, etc.) at key locations to meet the needs of residents and visitors to the county. $300,000 Brantley County, Private Sector General fund, GDOT, grants 11,13 X X X X X
  City of Hoboken 5-Year Short-Term Work Program Update Report of Accomplishments
(2017—2021)
EXPAND
PROJECTS STATUS FY 17 FY 18 FY 19 FY 20 FY 21 COMMENTS
HOUSING
Renovate approximately 10 homes of low-income residents Ongoing X X X X Expected completion FY23.
COMMUNITY FACILITIES AND SERVICES
Develop the Recreation Park with facilities including picnic area, shelters, walking track, educational materials, etc. Ongoing X X Expected completion FY24.
Construct new City Hall Cancelled X X Too costly.
Pave approximately 2 miles of dirt roads Complete X X X X X
Resurface approximately 2 miles of roads Complete X X X X X
Construct approximately ½ mile of sidewalks along US 82 Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
Repair approximately ¼ mile of sidewalks leading to the Elementary School Complete X X
Extend water lines and install hydrants along Palmetto and Maple Streets Complete X X X
Purchase Christmas decorations and entry signs for the City Complete X X
  City of Hoboken 5-Year Community Work Program Update
(2022—2026)
EXPAND
PROJECTS ESTIMATED COST RESPONSIBLE PARTY FUNDING
SOURCE GOAL FY 22 FY 23 FY 24 FY 25 FY 26
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Conduct an assessment of economic development needs in the City.
$12,500
City of Hoboken
General fund, grants
2
X
X
X
X
HOUSING
Renovate approximately 10 homes of low-income residents $300,000 City of Hoboken General fund, grants, CDBG and CHIP 3 X X
COMMUNITY FACILITIES & SERVICES
Improve the Recreation Park with amenities including picnic shelter, lighting, Veteran's memorial, gazebo, etc. $20,000 per year City of Hoboken SPLOST,
General fund, LWCF, grants 10,11 X X
Construct new City Hall. $200,000 City of Hoboken General fund, grants, and CDBG 11 X X X X X
INTERGOVERNMENTAL COORDINATION
Coordinate on shared use agreements and analyze current agreements for billing and tax collection. Staff time Brantley County, City of Hoboken, City of Nahunta General fund 9 X X X X X
Provide adequate high speed broadband access for local industries and commercial businesses. $1,000,000 -
$10,000,000 Public/Private Partnership General fund, SPLOST,
grants, private funding 12 X X X X X
Adopt a Broadband Ordinance. Staff time City of Hoboken General fund 12 X X X X X
Apply for Broadband Ready Certification. Staff time City of Hoboken General fund 12 X X X X X
Review and reduce any obstacles to roll-out or development of broadband infrastructure. Staff time City of Hoboken General fund 12 X X X X X
TRANSPORTATION
Participate in discussions on the provision of regional transit. Staff time City of Hoboken General fund 13 X X X X X
Repair approximately ½ mile of sidewalks along US 82. $20,000 City of Hoboken TSPLOST,
LMIG, General fund 13 X X X X X
Resurface approximately 2 miles of roads. $67,000/year City of Hoboken TSPLOST,
LMIG, General fund 13 X X X X X
Resurface approximately 15 miles of roads, including Caney Bay Rd., Riverside Rd., West Raybon Rd., Hwy
259, and Cumberland Rd. $3 million Brantley County, City of Hoboken General fund, GDOT, TSPLOST 13 X X X X X
  City of Nahunta 5-Year Short-Term Work Program Update Report of Accomplishments
(2017—2021)
EXPAND
PROJECTS STATUS FY 17 FY 18 FY 19 FY 20 FY 21 COMMENTS
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Acquire and develop land for a potential factory site
Ongoing X Expected completion FY26.
HOUSING
Acquire land and construct approximately 25 affordable housing units Ongoing X X X Expected completion FY26.
COMMUNITY FACILITIES & SERVICES
Expand City of Nahunta water system to meet the projected influx of future population Ongoing X X X X Expected completion FY26.
Replace water lines citywide Ongoing X X X Expected completion FY26.
Loop water lines citywide Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
PROJECTS STATUS FY 17 FY 18 FY 19 FY 20 FY 21 COMMENTS
Renovate water tower Ongoing X Expected completion FY26.
Extend sewer lines to the north end of the City Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.



Expand sewer pond with more land and spray field


Cancelled X X This item is not necessary as plans have changed and now the City is going to build a Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Purchase sewer jetter Ongoing X Expected completion FY26.
Replace culvert pipes and upgrade other drainage citywide Ongoing X X X Expected completion FY26.
Purchase limb truck Ongoing X Expected completion FY26.
Construct new City Hall and adapt an existing building to serve as the Community Center Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
Pave approximately 10 miles of dirt roads Ongoing X X X X X Expected completion FY26.
Resurface approximately 15 miles of roads Ongoing X X X X X Expected completion FY26.
Repair approximately 5 miles of sidewalks Ongoing X X X X X Expected completion FY26.
Construct approximately 3 miles of new sidewalks Ongoing X X X X X Expected completion FY26.
Construct brick sidewalks, planters, benches, and other streetscaping on Main Street Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
Purchase land and develop facilities for a City Park Ongoing X X Expected completion FY26.
Purchase 2 police vehicles Complete X X
Purchase Christmas decorations and lights for Downtown Ongoing X Expected completion FY26.
  City of Nahunta 5-Year Community Work Program Update
(2022—2026)
EXPAND
PROJECTS ESTIMATED COST RESPONSIBLE
PARTY FUNDING
SOURCE GOAL FY 22 FY 23 FY 24 FY 25 FY 26
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Acquire and develop land for a potential factory site.
$500,000
City of Nahunta
General fund, grants
2
X
X
X
X
X
HOUSING
Acquire land and construct approximately 25 affordable housing units. $1,300,000 City of Nahunta General fund, grants, CDBG, CHIP 3 X X X X X
COMMUNITY FACILITIES & SERVICES
Expand City of Nahunta water system. $400,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 5-6, 11 X X X X X
Replace water lines citywide. $1,000,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 5-6, 11 X X X X X
Loop water lines citywide. $50,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 5-6, 11 X X X X X
Renovate water tower. $250,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants, CDBG 5-6, 11 X X X X X
Construct new Wastewater Treatment Plant. $1,000,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants, CDBG 5-6, 11 X X X X X
Extend sewer lines to the north end of the City. $200,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 5-6, 11 X X X X X
Purchase sewer jetter. $50,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 5-6, 11 X X X X X
Replace culvert pipes and upgrade other drainage Citywide. $1,000,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 5-6, 11 X X X X X
Purchase limb truck. $100,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 11 X X X X X
Construct new City Hall and adapt an existing building to serve as the Community Center. $1,000,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants, CDBG 5-7, 11 X X X X X
Construct brick sidewalks, planters, benches, and other streetscaping on Main Street. $100,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 11, 13 X X X X X
Purchase land and develop facilities for a City Park. $1,000,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants, LWCF 5-6, 11 X X X X X
Purchase 2 police vehicles. $100,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 11 X X X X X
Purchase Christmas decorations and lights for downtown. $25,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 11 X X X X X
Purchase banners for light poles. $25,000 City of Nahunta General fund, Grants 11 X X X X X
INTERGOVERNMENTAL COORDINATION
Coordinate on shared use agreements and analyze current agreements for billing and tax collection. Staff time Brantley County, City of Hoboken, City of Nahunta General fund 9 X X X X X
BROADBAND
Provide adequate high speed broadband access for local industries and commercial businesses. $1,000,000 -
$10,000,000 Public/Private Partnership General Fund, SPLOST,
grants, private funding 12 X X X X X
Adopt a Broadband Ordinance. Staff time City of Nahunta General Fund 12 X X X X X
Apply for Broadband Ready Certification. Staff time City of Nahunta General Fund 12 X X X X X
Review and reduce any obstacles to roll-out or development of broadband infrastructure. Staff time City of Nahunta General Fund 12 X X X X X
TRANSPORTATION
Participate in discussions on the provision of regional transit. Staff time City of Nahunta General Fund 13 X X X X X
Pave approximately 10 miles of dirt roads. $7,000,000 City of Nahunta LMIG, General fund, TSPLOST,
grants 13 X X X X X
Resurface approximately 15 miles of roads. $2,500,000 City of Nahunta LMIG, General fund, TSPLOST,
grants 13 X X X X X
Repair approximately 5 miles of sidewalks. $500,000 City of Nahunta LMIG, General fund, TSPLOST,
grants 13 X X X X X
Construct approximately 3 miles of new sidewalks. $500,000 City of Nahunta LMIG, General fund, TSPLOST,
grants 13 X X X X X
Construct brick sidewalks, planters, benches, and other streetscaping on Main Street. $100,000 City of Nahunta LMIG, General fund, TSPLOST,
grants 13 X X X X X
  8. - Economic Development Element
new
The 2018-2022 Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS), as developed by the Southern Georgia Regional Commission under a grant from the US Department of Commerce Economic Development Administration, is hereby incorporated by reference into this Comprehensive Plan to serve as the Economic Development Element for Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken, Nahunta.
The Southern Georgia Regional Commission's (SGRC) Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) was designed to bring together the public and private sectors in the creation of an economic roadmap to diversify and strengthen the regional economy. The SGRC CEDS analyzed the regional economy and serve as a guide for establishing regional goals and objectives, a regional plan of action, and investment priorities and funding sources.
As a performance-based plan, this CEDS plays a critical role in adapting to global economic conditions by fully utilizing the region's unique advantages to maximize the economic opportunity for its residents by attracting private investment that creates jobs. The SGRC CEDS is a regionally owned strategy that is the result of a continuing economic development planning process developed with the regional public- and private-sector participation. This plan sets forth the goals and objectives necessary to solve the economic development problems of the Southern Georgia region and clearly defines the measures of success.
The Southern Georgia CEDS gives an overview of the region, briefly describing the geography, population, economy, labor and workforce development and use, education, transportation access, environment, and regional resources. It reviews the state of the regional economy and provides a list of achievable Goals and Objectives for the region, a Plan of Action to ensure success, and Performance Measures used to evaluate the Southern Georgia Regional Commission's successful development and implementation of the 2018-2022 CEDS. Implementation of the goals identified in this plan is significant to the economic future of the SGRC District.
Policies, issues, and opportunities, and Short-term Work Program implementation strategies located in the current Comprehensive Plans for each jurisdiction in our 18-county region were used extensively to develop the CEDS Goals and Objectives, Vital Projects, and Problems and Opportunities.
Included below are goals and objectives from the CEDS which are aligned with the current economic development goals of Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta.
Goal 1: Promote economic development strategies that encourage entrepreneurship, support existing industries, attract new employers, and stimulate tourism.
Strategy:
Coordinate economic development initiatives with a variety of economic development entities.
Objectives:
• Promote coordination among all economic development entities in the region.
• Promote coordination between the local governments and area businesses and agencies to identify ways to attract and retain more young, workforce age population to the region.
Goal 2: Protect, expand, and enhance critical infrastructure and connectivity for existing and future community growth.
Strategy:
Improve broadband access in rural communities.
Objectives:
• Identify locations where additional bandwidth is needed.
• Provide incentives for broadband; i.e. Electric Membership Cooperatives
Goal 3: Facilitate growth and development of an educated, skilled, prepared workforce by utilizing available programs and resources.
Strategy:
Create and maintain long-term, meaningful employment opportunities sufficient to establish a sound and balanced economic base in which average per capita income and employment levels are consistently comparable to those of the State and Nation.
Objectives:
• Encourage private/public partnerships between counties, cities, local businesses, and schools for the development of work programs and career education programs such as career academies for young adults.
• Support educational institutions to provide learning/skill development opportunities.
Goal 4: Create an inviting sense of place through rural renewal and other strategies in order to retain population and to attract new members to our community.
Strategy:
Facilitate vibrant, attractive communities.
Objectives:
• Create a welcoming, functional neighborhood with "work, play, live" atmospheres to invite younger families to the region.
• Encourage local governments to participate in CHIP, CDBG, and USDA housing programs.
9. - Land Use Element
new
Background
Brantley County was created in 1920 from portions of Charlton, Pierce, and Wayne counties. The first county seat for Brantley County was located in Hoboken, incorporated in 1920. The City of Nahunta was founded around 1870 and was incorporated in 1925. The county seat was transferred from Hoboken to Nahunta in 1923.
State Highway Map, 1929
As can be seen on the above map of State Highways from 1929, Brantley County was and still is connected by roadway to Waycross and Brunswick. This map predates the construction of Interstate-95 (construction began in 1966 to the east in Camden County).
Character Areas
In keeping with State Minimum Planning Standards, every part of the Greater Brantley Community was delineated into specific Character Areas. Character areas are intended to serve as guidance for future land use and land development. Each of the following character area narratives was developed based on stakeholder input, existing land uses, anticipated development, planned infrastructure improvements and expansions, and guidance found in the State Planning Recommendations. As with the Plan in general, these character area descriptions and goals should not be considered final. As the community gains a greater understanding of the role and value of character areas, their descriptions should be fine-tuned. Additionally, as the community continues to grow, specific character area depictions may need adjusting.
Each Character Area narrative has a unique Description stating either the existing or desired qualities for that area. Predominant Land Uses are then described.
The listing of Permitted Zonings (for Brantley County only as the cities do not have zoning) provides guidance as to the type of land uses encouraged within each Character Area. While many of the differences between uses can be mitigated through site design and development standards, there are certain uses which are incompatible with surrounding uses and should not be permitted.
The stated Development Strategy should serve as a guide for all development and redevelopment taking place in the Character Area. Adherence to these development strategies will ensure consistent and complimentary development, which promotes a greater sense of place and overall improved quality of life.
As required by the State, the Quality Community Objectives demonstrate the unique ideals established for each Character Area (also see Section II, subsection 5 of this plan for descriptions of the Quality Community Objectives). While there is certainly a value to regional planning, planning on the neighborhood (or character area) level allows for greater implementation of specific objectives, which ultimately promotes an improved quality of life.
The Implementation Measures are the specific activities or programs which could take place within each of the Character Areas. While the suggested list of measures may or may not currently exist in Greater Brantley County, their implementation in appropriate areas would help achieve the established objectives and overall development strategy for each Character Area. In most cases, these measures should be considered joint efforts between the local government, development community, and citizens alike.
Character Area maps are provided in the Maps section prior to the Appendix.
Satilla River Character Area (Brantley County)
Description
The Satilla River offers Brantley County an opportunity to encourage economic growth through the preservation of natural resources, developing eco-tourism and recreation. Brantley County lies in the Satilla Watershed with a major portion of the county consisting of wetlands (16%) and lowlands with poorly drained soils, 5 significant groundwater recharge areas, and approximately 90 miles of river corridor. The Satilla River was nominated in 1992 as a Regionally Important Resource. Brantley County contains two Wildlife Management Areas. Science, natural disasters, and increasing demand for water have shown us that these valuable resources are vital to the community's wellbeing and must be conserved, restored, and increased in future planning. Currently this area is being impacted by residential development encroaching from Glynn County.
Predominant Land Uses
Sustainable eco-tourism, canoeing, hiking, nature trails, bird watching, hunting, fishing, swimming, and environmental education.
Permitted Zoning:
• A-G Agricultural Use
• PD—Planned Development
Development Strategy
Protect water quality and preserve natural resources and habitat areas.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Resource Management
• Sense of Place
• Regional Cooperation
Implementation Measures:
• Encourage promotion of sustainable local eco-tourism, canoeing (including the Satilla River Water Trail), hiking, nature trails, bird watching, hunting, fishing, swimming, and environmental education as viable economic opportunities (Policy 2.9).
• Encourage new development in suitable locations in order to protect natural resources (Policy 1.3).
• Encourage participation in annual Satilla River cleanup events (Policy 1.10).
Residents of Brantley County donating their time to help keep the Satilla River pristine for all to enjoy.
Agriculture and Forestry Character Area (Brantley County, City of Hoboken, City of Nahunta)
Description
The Agricultural and Forestry Area will emphasize the rural lifestyle and offer an economic boost through the promotion of agri-tourism. Prime agricultural and forestland are located between the convergence of the Satilla and the Little Satilla Rivers, along the southern side of the Satilla River border with Pierce County, north and southeast of Hickox, and running parallel to the Satilla River at Lulaton. Part of the Waycross State Forest is located along the east-southeast border of Ware and Brantley Counties at Schlatterville. Most of this area is surrounded by timberland, although there is some residential development along the fringe areas of the forest. Sandy, poorly drained soils are well suited for timber, but the land has suffered from ditching, monoculture, pesticides, and loss of native hardwood trees.
Predominant Land Uses
Forestry, with some farmland
Permitted Zoning: (in Brantley County only as the cities do not have zoning)
• A-G Agricultural Use
• M-H-P Manufactured Housing Park
• PD—Planned Development
Development Strategy
Preserve farming and conservation options as vital components of the rural economy and quality of life for Brantley County.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Resource Management
• Sense of Place
Implementation Measures:
• Ensure that the protection and conservation of the community's resources plans an important role in the decision-making process (Policy 1.5).
• Encourage conservation easements to keep productive farmland in agricultural use (Policy 1.7).
Conservation Character Area (Brantley County)
Description
The Conservation Character Area is intended to identify those areas in Brantley County which exhibit unique or special environmental characteristics. These areas may be held either publicly or privately. The vision for the future of this character area is to protect natural habitats and other significant natural resources, such as pristine wetland habitat and wildlife, while utilizing the natural resources' attraction to visitors to build a sustainable economy based on eco-tourism.
Predominant Land Uses
Conservation—both passive and active, including private land and public park and/or preserve lands
Permitted Zoning:
• A-G Agricultural Use
Development Strategy
Preserve conservation options for the long-term recreational and natural habitat goals of the community.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Resource Management
• Efficient Land Use
Implementation Measures:
• Encourage more compact and efficient urban development and preservation of open spaces (Policy 1.4).
• Ensure that the protection and conservation of the community's resources plans an important role in the decision-making process (Policy 1.5).
• Pursue the establishment of bikeways and trails in and around the Satilla River area (Policy 1.6).
Residential Character Area (Brantley County, City of Hoboken, City of Nahunta)
Description
This character area contains the established residential areas of Brantley County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta. These residential areas typically include single-family residential, with the density ranging from low to medium. The vision of the future of this character area is to preserve the rural and small-town character and lifestyle of residential areas while reinforcing the stability of neighborhoods, encouraging higher rates of homeownership, and encouraging a mix of uses that is mostly residential with some limited neighborhood amenities.
Predominant Land Uses
Residential with limited neighborhood amenities such as schools, churches, and minimal neighborhood serving commercial uses.
Permitted Zoning: (in Brantley County only as the cities do not have zoning)
• R-R Rural Residential
• R-1 Single Family Residential
• R-22 Single Family Residential
• M-R Multiple Residential
• DR-22-M Residential
• B-R Business Retail
• PD—Planned Development
Development Strategy
Reinforce the stability of the neighborhoods through encouragement of homeownership and by supporting code enforcement efforts.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Sense of Place
• Efficient Land Use
• Housing Options
Implementation Measures:
• Accommodate the community's diverse population by encouraging a harmonious mixture of housing types and uses (Policy 3.1).
• Promote availability of vacant and developable land available for multifamily housing (Policy 3.3).
• Encourage housing policies, choices and patterns that move people upward on the housing ladder from dependence to independence (Policy 3.4).
• Encourage creation of affordable housing opportunities to ensure that all those who work in the community have a viable choice or option to live in the community (Policy 3.5).
• Ensure new affordable housing is built to quality standards (Policy 3.6).
• Explore a collaborative effort between the county and the cities in regards to code enforcement (Policy 3.7).
Developing Subdivisions in East Brantley County Character Area (Brantley County)
Description
Numerous subdivisions began developing in East Brantley County during the previous update of the comprehensive plan. Some of the lots have been developed, while others remain vacant. This area has an opportunity to contribute to the economy of the County. Local business owners and entrepreneurs may have the opportunity to locate specialty locally-owned restaurants and entertainment in this area. This would have the beneficial result in homeowners and residents spending money within Brantley County instead of neighboring areas.
Predominant Land Uses
Medium to large lot single family residential uses
Permitted Zoning:
• R-R Rural Residential
• PD—Planned Development
Development Strategy
Ensure that sufficient infrastructure is available in conjunction with development and minimize unintended consequences through proactive planning efforts.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Sense of Place
• Resource Management
• Housing Options
Implementation Measures:
• Accommodate the community's diverse population by encouraging a harmonious mixture of housing types and uses (Policy 3.1).
• Explore a collaborative effort between the county and the cities in regards to code enforcement (Policy 3.7).
• Ensure that necessary services are provided concurrent with growth and are planned for in keeping with future growth (Policy 5.2).
Major Highway Corridor Character Area (Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta)
Description
US Highways 82 and 301 intersect Brantley County. Development such as local specialty shops and restaurants along these major highways will encourage travelers to contribute to the local economy. Highway 82 runs the width of the county, as does the railroad. Buffers should be maintained on either side of the highway for wildlife, aesthetics, fly zones, safety, and erosion control. CSX Transportation operates an east-west railroad line parallel to US 82 that bisects the County and the Cities of Hoboken and Nahunta, as well as the communities of Lulaton, Atkinson, and Waynesville. CSX also operates a north-south railroad line parallel to US 301, which runs through the City of Nahunta and the Hortense and Hickox communities.
Predominant Land Uses
Mixed residential, commercial, and industrial uses.
Development Strategy
Enhance and uphold visual and property maintenance standards.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Sense of Place
• Resource Management
• Transportation Options
• Local Preparedness
Implementation Measures:
• Encourage economic development and redevelopment, to include the acquisition and development of land (Policy 2.1).
• Participate in the 121, 301, and Woodpecker Trail Associations to promote US 301 as a scenic and economic development highway (Policy 2.10).
• Encourage neighborhoods to develop as interactive communities where people have easy access to schools, parks, residences and businesses through walkways, bike paths, roads and public transportation (Policy 10.6).
Commercial Character Area (Brantley County)
Description
This character area consists of developing or developed commercial areas including office, retail, and service uses abutting major commercial corridors.
Predominant Land Uses
Developed or developing commercial uses.
Permitted Zoning:
• C-H Commercial Highway
• B-R Business Retail
• PD—Planned Development
Development Strategy
Enhance and uphold visual and property maintenance standards.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Sense of Place
• Economic Prosperity
• Transportation Options
• Local Preparedness
Implementation Measures:
• Encourage economic development and redevelopment, to include the acquisition and development of land (Policy 2.1).
• Encourage neighborhoods to develop as interactive communities where people have easy access to schools, parks, residences and businesses through walkways, bike paths, roads and public transportation (Policy 10.6).
Brantley County Courthouse Character Area (City of Nahunta)
Description
This character area consists of the Brantley County Courthouse and the area directly surrounding it. The vision for the future is for this area to be used for the governmental functions of the County, while continuing to provide a convenient downtown location for residents to access governmental services.
Predominant Land Uses
Professional, government offices.
Development Strategy
Preserve the historical character of this small area while also enabling the property to serve the functions of local government, meeting resident's needs.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Sense of Place
• Local Preparedness
Implementation Measures:
• Encourage the development of the downtowns of the two cities as vibrant centers for culture, government, dining, residential use, and retail diversity (Policy 2.2).
Hoboken Downtown Character Area (City of Hoboken)
Description
Downtown Hoboken has vacant buildings, such as a convenience store. This building could be converted for uses such as a local specialty shop or office space. Such a property represents an opportunity not only for local entrepreneurs, but also for those relocating from outside the County. The Hoboken Downtown area, being located on Highway 82, has the potential to bring in large volumes of potential customers. Currently the downtown area consists of commercial, retail, and scattered residential. There are no zoning codes or land use development regulations in Hoboken to guide growth.
Predominant Land Uses
Commercial, Residential
Development Strategy
Enhance the economy and maintain the rural character of this small town setting.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Sense of Place
• Local Preparedness
• Efficient Land Use
• Transportation Options
Implementation Measures:
• Encourage the development of the downtowns of the two cities as vibrant centers for culture, government, dining, residential use, and retail diversity (Policy 2.2).
• Encourage adoption of landscaping guidelines to create a unified and pleasing visual environment (Policy 2.3).
• Support programs for retention, expansion and creation of businesses that enhance the community's economic well-being (Policy 2.4).
• Establish an atmosphere in which entrepreneurial enterprise is nurtured in the community (Policy 2.5).
• Encourage niche marketing of local artists and craftsmen (Policy 2.8).
Nahunta Downtown Character Area (City of Nahunta)
Description
This area contains the traditional downtown in the City of Nahunta and its historical buildings.
Predominant Land Uses
Commercial, Residential, City Services
Development Strategy
Maintain the rural Main Street character while enhancing retail options and maintaining historic buildings.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Sense of Place
• Local Preparedness
• Efficient Land Use
• Transportation Options
Implementation Measures:
• Encourage the development of the downtowns of the two cities as vibrant centers for culture, government, dining, residential use, and retail diversity (Policy 2.2).
• Encourage adoption of landscaping guidelines to create a unified and pleasing visual environment (Policy 2.3).
• Support programs for retention, expansion and creation of businesses that enhance the community's economic well-being (Policy 2.4).
• Establish an atmosphere in which entrepreneurial enterprise is nurtured in the community (Policy 2.5).
• Encourage niche marketing of local artists and craftsmen (Policy 2.8).
Brantley County Industrial Park Character Area (Brantley County and the City of Hoboken)
Description
The location and availability of land in the Brantley County Industrial Park offers the community a chance to recruit diverse industry. These industries will provide jobs to local citizens and will stimulate the local economy.
The Brantley County Industrial Park has access to the CSX rail line and is fronted by US 82. The Industrial Park is 1 mile east of US 301 and less than 2 miles from the County Airport. With its close proximity to major highways, access to a railway, and location within 25 miles of Interstate 95, future development should be attractive to many industries looking for sites.
Predominant Land Uses
Industrial uses including metal work, manufacturing, and warehousing.
Permitted Zoning: (in Brantley County only as the City of Hoboken does not have zoning)
• L-I Light Industrial
• PD—Planned Development
Development Strategy
Enhance the economic opportunity in the community while preserving natural areas for non-industrial uses.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Economic Prosperity
• Educational Opportunities
• Local Preparedness
• Regional Cooperation
Implementation Measures:
• Encourage new development in suitable locations in order to protect natural resources (Policy 1.3).
• Support programs for retention, expansion and creation of businesses that enhance the community's economic well-being (Policy 2.4).
• Establish an atmosphere in which entrepreneurial enterprise is nurtured in the community (Policy 2.5).
• Support and work with the Development Authority to attract new business and industry to the community (Policy 2.6).
Light Industrial Character Area (Brantley County)
Description
This area includes various industrial areas of lesser intensity within the County.
Predominant Land Uses
Industrial uses including light manufacturing and warehousing.
Permitted Zoning:
• L-I Light Industrial
• PD—Planned Development
Development Strategy
Provide an environment conducive to maintaining and attracting businesses to create quality jobs for the community. This includes the provision of up-to-date infrastructure, including broadband and natural gas, if feasible.
Quality Community Objectives:
• Economic Prosperity
• Local Preparedness
Implementation Measures:
• Encourage new development in suitable locations in order to protect natural resources (Policy 1.3).
• Support programs for retention, expansion and creation of businesses that enhance the community's economic well-being (Policy 2.4).
• Establish an atmosphere in which entrepreneurial enterprise is nurtured in the community (Policy 2.5).
III. - Maps
new
Character Area Map—Brantley County
Character Area Map—City of Hoboken
Character Area Map—City of Nahunta
Appendix
new
SWOT Analysis Results
11/10/20
Strengths
• The County has a significant economic strength in the timber industry.
• There is an abundance of open space with areas that could be used for active or passive recreation.
• The City of Hoboken is well known for their Sacred Harp singing.
• The population appears to be increasing as land is less costly in Brantley County compared to surrounding counties.
• Code enforcement efforts have been ramping up which will result in safer living conditions for residents.
• There is a transportation option as MIDS is the third party rural transit provider.
• The County has adopted zoning.
• The County has sufficient broadband infrastructure that is considered to be very strong in comparison to neighboring jurisdictions.
• The County has made a significant financial investment in the airport.
• There is a small park adjacent to the Hoboken Elementary School and a walking track.
• The County and the Cities work together on elections, tax billing, collections, use of the community center, and for juries.
• The County and the Cities work together on grading of roads and procurement of rocks.
Weaknesses
• There are undocumented water supply wells; some are very shallow and are grandfathered in. Residents are not alerted to developments that could impact the quality of their water supply wells when there is no record that they exist.
• Water level—the County has a large proportion of land in wetlands. This impacts the ability to develop more housing for residents.
• There are code enforcement and safety issues with recreational vehicles and campers.
• As the County administers rural transit, there are administrative costs and staff time devoted to managing rural transit.
Opportunities
• If a natural gas pipeline could be added to the County, there would be an additional energy source that may be more affordable than existing sources.
• Recreational opportunities will be increased once the City of Nahunta completes a planned park project adjacent to City Hall.
• There are many open space areas including land that fronts rivers and/or wetlands that could be programmed or developed for passive or active recreational pursuits.
• Affordable housing is a need in the county.
• If rural transit is made regional, the County wouldn't have to spend time and money on administering transit.
• The County would like to further refine the commercial zoning districts into additional zoning designations.
• Use of the airport could be expanded if additional improvements are made.
Threats
• Certain uses of land (for example, landfills) have the risk of possibly polluting waterways and impairing air quality and drinking water supplies.
• Educational options could be strengthened to encourage youth to stay in the County after graduating high school.
• Population counts may be impacted due to the 2020 Census being performed during the Covid-19 pandemic; this could result in a reduction of resources being directed towards the County.
Data below are compiled and formatted by Headwaters Economics Economic Profile System November 20, 2020. Data Sources: U.S. Department of Commerce. 2019. Bureau of Economic Analysis, Regional Economic Accounts, Washington, D.C.
