Chapter 78 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 26.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 78-1—78-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Regulation of cable television systems by local governments, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1 et seq.; municipalities prohibited from granting franchise for cable television within unincorporated area of county, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-3; avoiding or attempting to avoid charges for use of cable television service, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-2.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 78-31. - Franchise necessary to operate business.
It shall be unlawful for any person, to operate or attempt to operate any business or undertaking for the transmission by cable and distribution of television energy in the county without first obtaining a franchise from the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 3-14-1989, § 1)
Sec. 78-32. - Granting of nonexclusive franchise.
Any grant to a nonexclusive franchise to erect, maintain and operate in, over, along, across and upon the streets, roads, lanes, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, bridges, highways and other public ways or appurtenance or portions thereof, together with any and all extensions and additions thereto, for the sole purpose of transmission of cable and distribution of television energy for sale to the inhabitants of the county, shall be substantially in the form set forth in division 2 of this article.
(Ord. of 3-14-1989, § 2)
DIVISION 2. - CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE FORM[3]
Cable Television Franchise
This Franchise Agreement made and entered into this _____ day of _____ 20_____, by and between BRANTLEY COUNTY, GEORGIA, acting by and through its Board of Commissioners, hereinafter referred to as Franchiser, and_____ its successors and assigns, hereinafter referred to as Franchise.

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the cable television franchise form which was adopted as part of the ordinance of 3-14-1989 which regulates cable television operations in the county. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. In order to facilitate indexing, catchlines have been added by the editor.

Sec. 1. - Granting of rights.
That for and in consideration of the faithful performance and observation of the conditions and reservations hereinafter specified, the right is hereby granted to Franchisee, its successors, assigns, designees, to erect, maintain and operate television transmission and distribution facilities and additions thereto in, under, over, along, across and upon the roads, streets, lanes, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, bridges and other public rights-of-way in that portion of Brantley County, Georgia, set forth herein as the "Franchise area," which area is described in Schedule "A" attached hereto, for the purpose of transmission and distribution of television impulses and television energy for a period of twenty (20) years from the date hereof, with the right of Franchisee to renew this franchise for an additional ten (10) year term.
Sec. 2. - Definition.
Whenever used herein, the word television shall mean a system for transmission of audio signals and visual images by means of electrical impulses.
Sec. 3. - Approval of proposal.
As a condition precedent for the granting of this franchise, Franchisee shall present for approval by the County Commission, in a public meeting following notification of such meeting, its proposal for providing cable television service within the franchise area as well as documentation of its legal character, financial and technical qualifications for providing such service.
Sec. 4. - Pole erection and maintenance.
The poles used for Franchisee's distribution system shall be those erected and maintained by Georgia Power Company, Okefenokee Rural Electric Membership Corporation, and Southern Bell Telephone Company, when and where practicable. Provided mutually satisfactory rental agreements cannot be entered into with said companies following a good faith effort on the part of Franchisee to obtain such agreements, Franchisee shall have the right to erect and maintain its own poles as may be necessary for the proper construction and maintenance of the television distribution system, with the approval of locating such poles retained by the County Commission. Further, the Franchisee shall have the right to run its transmission cable underground along the roads, streets, lanes, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, and other such public rights-of-way of Brantley.
Sec. 5. - Transmission and distribution equipment and appurtenances; location; erection; maintenance.
Franchisee's transmission and distribution system poles, wires, and appurtenances shall be located, erected and maintained so as not to interfere with the lives of persons or to interfere with new improvements this County may deem proper to make, or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct the free use of the roads, streets, alleys, bridges, and other public property. The removal of poles to avoid such interference will be at Franchisee's expense. Construction and maintenance of the transmission and distribution system, including house connections, shall be in accordance with the provisions of the National Electrical Safety Code, as amended, and such applicable laws, ordinances and regulations of the United States of America, State of Georgia, or the County of Brantley, affecting same, which may be presently in effect or hereafter made.
Sec. 6. - Installation of house drop hardware.
Installation of house drop hardware shall be uniform throughout the County except that Franchisee shall be free to change its hardware and installation procedure as the art progresses.
Sec. 7. - Underground service wires.
In those areas where telephone-electric service wires are underground, Franchisee shall place its cable and services lines underground.
Sec. 8. - Consideration of public in maintenance and operation.
In the maintenance and operation of its television transmission and distribution system in the roads, streets, alleys, and other public places and in the course of any new construction of any new construction of additions to its facilities, Franchisee shall proceed so as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the general public; any opening or obstruction in the roads, streets, or other public places made by Franchisee in the course of its operations shall be made only after having obtained prior written permission from the County to do so and shall be guarded and protected at all times by the placement of adequate barriers, fences, or boardings, the bounds of which during period of dusk and darkness shall be clearly designated by appropriate warning lights.
Sec. 9. - County-owned and/or County-controlled property.
All work in any way necessitated by the business of Franchisee which may involve the opening, breaking or tearing up a portion of a road, street, sidewalk, or other part of County-owned or County-controlled property shall be done and repaired in the manner approved by the County Commission and may be done by the County at the expense of the cable operator if mutually agreed upon by the County Commission and Franchisee.
Sec. 10. - Existing television reception.
Installation shall be maintained so as not to interfere with television reception in existence.
Sec. 11. - Forfeiture.
The distribution system of Franchisee to be hereinafter installed shall not be abandoned, transferred or assigned, either in whole or in part, without the consent of the County Commissioners. In the event of the failure of Franchisee to commence construction of its cable system within 180 days after the granting of this franchise, or in the event of the failure of Franchisee to render cable television service (in this case, cable television service shall mean thirty (30%) percent of that portion of the county within the Franchise area, is receiving cable television on a regular basis) to the Franchise area and the inhabitants thereof as contemplated and provided for by this Franchise within a period of one year from the date construction begins, the County Commission may, after giving ninety (90) days notice to Franchisee, declare this franchise forfeited and/or require Franchisee to forfeit the surety bond required by Section 15 of this franchise agreement. Failure to comply by reason of circumstances beyond the reasonable control of Franchisee, which circumstances could not be anticipated at the time of acceptance of these terms shall not be sufficient grounds for the County to declare a forfeiture.
Sec. 12. - Renewal at termination of franchise period.
In the event Franchisee fails to renew its option at the termination of the franchise period, or in the event the franchise is forfeited due to the failure of Franchisee to fully comply with all terms and conditions of this agreement, or upon transfer or assignment of the franchise, the distribution system of Franchisee shall be placed up for sale at fair market value and the County of Brantley shall have first option of refusal on the purchase of the system.
Sec. 13. - Protection; liabilities.
Franchisee shall indemnify, protect and save harmless the County from and against all losses, physical damage to property, and bodily injury or death to persons including payments made under any worker's compensation law which may arise out of or be caused by the erection, maintenance, presence, use or removal of attachments on poles within the County of Brantley by any act of Franchisee. Franchisee shall carry insurance to protect the parties hereto from and against all claims, demands, actions, judgments, costs, expenses and liabilities which may arise or result directly or indirectly from or by reason of such loss, injury, or damage. The amounts for such insurance against liability due to physical damage to property shall not be less than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) as to any one accident and against liability due to bodily injury or to death of persons not less than Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($300,000.00) as to any one accident. Franchisee shall also carry such insurance as is deemed necessary to protect it from all claims under any worker's compensation laws as may be applicable to Franchisee. All insurance required by this agreement shall be and remain in full force and effect for the entire life of this agreement. Said policy or policies of insurance or a certified copy thereof shall be submitted for approval by the County attorney and then kept on file by the County Clerk with a signed copy of this Franchise.
Sec. 14. - County's use of poles.
Franchisee hereby grants to the County free of any expense joint use of any and all poles owned by Franchisee for any legal County purpose insofar as it may be done without interfering with free use and enjoyment of Franchisee's own wires and fixtures and County shall hold Franchisee harmless from any and all action, causes of action or damage directly caused by the County's use of the poles of Franchisee.
Sec. 15. - Surety bond.
At the time this franchise becomes effective, Franchisee shall furnish a bond to the County in the amount of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) in such form with surety as shall be acceptable to the County, guaranteeing payment of all sums which may at any time become due from Franchisee to the County under the terms of this franchise (except such sums as are covered by the insurance provided in Section 13) and further guaranteeing the faithful performance of all the obligations of Franchisee under the terms of this franchise.
Sec. 16. - Single outlet furnished to county; no charge.
In consideration of the granting of this franchise to Franchisee as aforesaid, Franchisee will furnish without installation charge or monthly service fee a single outlet to the County, the specific location to be designated by the Commissioners within the Franchise area.
Sec. 17. - Franchise fee.
In further consideration of the granting of this franchise to Franchisee, Franchisee shall pay to Brantley County, no later than the 1st day of March each year following initiation of service, during the first ten (10) years of the Franchise an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the gross of all cable service revenues and 4 percent (4%) during the next ten (10) years of the franchise. Should Franchisee desire to exercise an option for renewal of additional years, then the franchise fee will be negotiated at that time. Revenues to include but not limited to subscriber revenues, advertising, pay cable, lease channel revenues, installation fees, disconnect and reconnect fees, and equipment rental of Franchisee derived from cable television operations within the Franchise area of Brantley County during the previous months. The County Commissioners shall have the right to inspect the records of Franchisee at any reasonable time for the purpose of ascertaining accurately what the actual gross receipts of Franchisee may have been for cable television service for past years and/or for the present year.
Sec. 18. - Condition of installations.
All installations by Franchisee shall be made in good, substantial and safe condition and shall be maintained in such condition at all times. Franchisee shall during each year of this agreement submit to the Board of Commissioners an annual performance report which shall be sufficient to ascertain Franchisee's compliance with F.C.C. technical standards and the quality of Franchisee's overall performance. Such report shall summarize all subscriber complaints and their resolution and said report shall be submitted to the County Commissioners on or before the regular Board of Commissioners meeting for the month of March of each year.
Sec. 19. - Refusal of renewal; poor service.
In the event such reports indicate that Franchisee is not providing a quality service consistent with F.C.C. rules or that subscriber complaints are so numerous or unresolved as to indicate a poor quality service, the County Commissioners may refuse to renew this Franchise with Franchisee.
Sec. 20. - Annual financial report.
Franchisee shall, during each year of this agreement, submit to the Board of Commissioners an annual financial report which shall be sufficient to ascertain the financial condition of Franchisee. Such report shall be submitted to the County Commissioners on or before the first day of June of each year.
Sec. 21. - Compliance with regulations.
Franchisee shall at all times be in full compliance with all F.C.C. regulations as amended pertaining to cable television systems. Franchisee shall furthermore at all times be in full compliance with all existing federal, state and local laws, ordinances, statutes as are applicable to the operation of a cable television system. No part of this agreement shall be construed as a waiver of any local, state or federal law or as a limit of liability.
Sec. 22. - Proposal; compliance with terms.
In addition to all rights, duties, obligations, and agreements contained in this franchise, Franchisee shall provide the Board of Commissioners with its cable service proposal which shall be attached to this agreement and Franchisee shall comply with each and every term and condition of the proposal in addition to the terms of this agreement, provided said terms of the proposal are not in conflict with provisions of this Franchise. Said proposal shall be incorporated herein by reference thereto and is expressly made a part hereof.
APPROVED, ACCEPTED AND AGREED TO THIS _____ day of _____, 20_____.
EXPAND
_____
Franchisee
Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of:
Date: _____
_____
Notary Public.
  SCHEDULE "A"
The description of the geographical area of Brantley County in which the franchise is granted.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Brantley County, Georgia, has caused its official hands and seal to be placed hereon the day and year first above written.
EXPAND
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF BRANTLEY COUNTY, GEORGIA.
By _____
Chairman
Attest: _____
Clerk
