Article 5.4 - Permits and Inspections

Section 5.4.1 - When Permit Required.
Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical, or plumbing, system, the installation of which is regulated by the technical codes, shall first make application to the chief building inspector and obtain the required permit for the work.
Section 5.4.2 - Work Authorized.
A building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing permit shall carry with it the right to construct or install the work, provided the same are shown on the drawings and set forth in the specifications filed with the application for the permit. Where these are not shown on the drawings and covered by the specifications submitted with the application, separate permits shall be required.
Section 5.4.3 - Minor Repairs.
Ordinary minor repairs may be made with the approval of the chief building inspector without a permit, provided that such repairs shall not violate any of the provisions of the technical codes.
Section 5.4.4 - Information Required.
Each application for a permit, with the required fee, shall be filed with the chief building inspector on a form furnished for that purpose, and shall contain a general description of the proposed work and its location. The owner, or his authorized agent shall sign the application. The building permit application shall indicate the proposed occupancy of all parts of the building and of that portion of the site or lot, if any, not covered by the building or structure, and shall contain such other information as may be required by the chief building inspector.
Section 5.4.5 - Time Limitations.
An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned six (6) months after the date of filing for the permit, unless before then a permit has been issued. The chief building inspector may allow one (1) or more extensions of time for periods of not more than ninety (90) days each provided the extension is requested in writing and justifiable cause is demonstrated.
Section 5.4.6 - Reserved.
Section 5.4.7 - Drawings and Specifications; Requirements.
When required by the chief building inspector, two (2) or more copies of specifications, and of drawings drawn to scale with sufficient clarity and detail to indicate the nature and character of the work, shall accompany the application for a permit. Such drawings and specifications shall contain information, in the form of notes or otherwise, as to the quality of materials, where quality is essential to conformity with the technical codes. Such information shall be specific, and the technical codes shall not be cited as a whole or in part, nor shall the term "legal" or its equivalent be used, as a substitute for specific information. All information, drawings, specifications and accompanying data shall bear the name and signature of the person responsible for the design.
Section 5.4.8 - Additional Data.
The chief building inspector may require details, computations, stress diagrams, and other data necessary to describe the construction or installation and the basis of calculations. All drawings, specifications and accompanying data required by the chief building inspector to be prepared by an architect or engineer shall be affixed with their official seal.
Section 5.4.9 - Design Professional.
The design professional shall be an architect or engineer legally registered under the laws of this state regulating the practice of architecture or engineering and shall affix his official seal to said drawings, specifications and accompanying data, for the following:
1.
All Group A, E, and I occupancies.
2.
Buildings and structures three (3) stories or more high.
3.
Buildings and structures five thousand (5,000) square feet (465 m 2 ) or more in area.
For all other buildings and structures, with the exception of single-family dwellings, the submittal shall bear the certification of the applicant that some specific state law exception permits its preparation by a person not so registered.
Section 5.4.10 - Structural and Fire Resistance Integrity.
Plans for all buildings shall indicate how required structural and fire resistance integrity will be maintained where a penetration of a required fire resistance wall, floor or partition will be made for electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing, signal and communication conduits, pipes and systems. Also, plans should indicate in sufficient detail how the fire integrity will be maintained where required fire resistance floors intersect the exterior walls.
Section 5.4.11 - Site Drawings.
Drawings shall show the location of the proposed building or structure and of every existing building or structure on the site or lot. The chief building inspector may require a boundary line survey prepared by a qualified surveyor.
Sections 5.4.12, 5.4.13 - Reserved.
Section 5.4.14 - Hazardous Occupancies.
The following provisions and prohibitions are required when a structure's use is hazardous to the public health, safety and welfare:
(a)
General site plan. A general site plan drawn at a legible scale which shall include, but not be limited to, the location of all buildings, exterior storage facilities, permanent access ways, evacuation routes, parking lots, internal roads, chemical loading areas, equipment cleaning areas, storm and sanitary sewer accesses, emergency equipment and adjacent property uses. The exterior storage areas shall be identified with the hazard classes and the maximum quantities per hazard class of hazardous materials stored.
(b)
Building floor plan. A building floor plan drawn to a legible scale which shall include, but not be limited to, all hazardous materials storage facilities within the building and shall indicate rooms, doorways, corridors, exits, fire rated assemblies with their hourly rating, location of liquid tight rooms, and evacuation routes. Each hazardous material storage facility shall be identified on the plan with the hazard classes and quantity range per hazard class or the hazardous materials stored.
(c)
Construction near or on a lot containing a billboard, pylon sign or off-premises sign. Construction of any structure, building, or appurtenance adjacent to, or on a lot containing a billboard, pylon sign or off-premises sign under the provisions of this section shall require that:
1.
No buildings, structures, parking or appurtenances may be constructed within the "fall zone" of such sign, except that when the fall zone extends beyond the property line of the parcel on which the billboard, pylon or sign is located, then buildings, structures, parking and appurtenances shall not be restricted on the adjacent property. A "fall zone" is defined as an area equal to one hundred (100) percent of the height of the sign in every direction.
2.
No subdivision of a parcel containing a billboard shall be permitted unless the subdivided lot containing the billboard is large enough to encompass the "fall zone" of such billboard.
3.
For purposes of this ordinance a billboard shall be defined as any sign greater than twelve (12) feet in height as measured from the ground at the base of the sign. Such billboards shall be considered to be the principal use of such parcel.
4.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to a parcel containing a billboard on or before December 7, 2009 or the date of adoption of this ordinance [December 14, 2009], whichever is later, provided such billboard is a nonconforming use and was established pursuant to a recorded irrevocable permanent ownership interest in a dominant estate (not a lease) and the proposed construction of the structure, building or appurtenance shall occur on the servient estate. The owner of such parcel, prior to issuance of a land disturbance permit, shall file a binding covenant that shall run with the land in the Superior Court of Fulton County declaring that should the occasion or opportunity ever arise in the future to have the billboard use ended or removed, either by law, equity or contract, regardless of cost, the billboard shall be permanently removed from the parcel.
(2009-12-18, § 1(Exh. A), Amended, 12/14/2009; 2003-06-15, Added, 06/16/2003, Subsection (c))
Section 5.4.15 - Plan Review.
The chief building inspector shall examine or cause to be examined each application for a permit and the accompanying documents, consisting of drawings, specifications, computations, and additional data, and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of the technical codes and all other pertinent laws or ordinances.
Section 5.4.16 - Affidavits.
The chief building inspector may accept a sworn affidavit from a registered architect or engineer stating that the plans submitted conform to the technical codes. For buildings and structures, the affidavit shall state that the plans conform to the laws as to egress, type of construction and general arrangement. If accompanied by drawings showing the structural design, the affidavit shall include a statement that the plans and design conform to the requirements of the technical codes as to strength, stresses, strains, loads and stability. The chief building inspector may without any examination or inspection accept such affidavit, provided the architect or engineer who made such affidavit agrees to submit to the chief building inspector, copies of inspection reports as inspections are performed. Upon completion of the structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems the design professional shall submit a certification that the structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system has been erected in accordance with the requirements of the technical codes. Where the chief building inspector relies upon such affidavit, the architect or engineer shall assume full responsibility for the compliance with all provisions of the technical codes and other pertinent laws or ordinances.
Section 5.4.17 - Action on Permits.
The chief building inspector shall act upon an application for a permit without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. If the chief building inspector is satisfied that the work described in an application for a permit and the contract documents filed therewith conform to the requirements of the technical codes and other pertinent laws and ordinances, he shall issue a permit to the applicant.
Section 5.4.18 - Refusal to Issue Permit.
If the application for a permit and the accompanying contract documents describing the work do not conform to the requirements of the technical codes or other pertinent laws or ordinances, the chief building inspector shall not issue a permit, but shall return the contract documents to the applicant with his refusal to issue such permit. Such refusal shall, when requested, be in writing and shall contain the reason for refusal.
Section 5.4.19 - Special Foundation Permit.
When application for permit to erect or enlarge a building has been filed and is pending, the chief building inspector may, at his discretion, issue a special permit for the foundation only. The holder of such a special permit is proceeding at his own risk and without assurance that a permit for the remainder of the work will be granted nor that corrections will not be required in order to meet provisions of the technical codes.
Section 5.4.20 - Public Right-of-Way.
A permit shall not be given by the chief building inspector for the construction or alteration of any building where the construction planned will affect the exterior walls, bays, balconies, or other appendages or projections fronting on any street, alley or public lane, unless the applicant has made application at the office of the director of public works for the lines of the public street on which he proposes to build, erect or locate said building. Such restriction shall also apply to any building or structure removed from another lot or premises. It shall be the duty of the chief building inspector to see that the street lines are not encroached upon except as provided for in the Standard Building Code.
Sections 5.4.21, 5.4.22 - Reserved.
Section 5.4.23 - Contractors' Responsibilities; Licensure.
It shall be the duty of every contractor who shall make contracts for the installation or repairs of building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical, sprinkler or plumbing systems, for which a permit is required, to comply with state or local rules and regulations concerning licensing which the applicable governing authority may have adopted. In such case that the state requires a contractor to have obtained a state license before they are permitted to perform work, the contractor shall supply the local government with its license number before receiving a permit for work to be performed.
All persons, firms or corporations performing any work regulated by this chapter or contracting for such work in the City of Roswell shall have a valid, current City of Roswell business license. A business license shall not be issued to do electrical, mechanical or plumbing work or contracting in the City of Roswell unless the person applying for the license holds a valid current license from the State of Georgia. If the applicant for a business license is a firm or corporation, it must have in its employ a full-time person who has a license from the State of Georgia. Should the State of Georgia revoke this license, the City of Roswell permit will be automatically revoked. All state licenses must be current.
Section 5.4.24 - Permit Intent.
A permit issued shall be construed to be a license to proceed with the work and not as authority to violate, cancel, alter, or set aside any of the provisions of the technical codes. Issuance of a permit shall not prevent the chief building inspector from thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans, construction, or violations of this Code. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within six (6) months after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six (6) months after the time the work is commenced. One (1) or more extensions of time, for periods not more than ninety (90) days each, may be allowed for the permit. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. Extensions shall be in writing by the chief building inspector.
Section 5.4.25 - Permit Issued on Basis of an Affidavit.
Whenever a permit is issued in reliance upon an affidavit or whenever the work to be covered by a permit involves installation under conditions which, in the opinion of the chief building inspector, are hazardous or complex, the chief building inspector shall require that design professionals supervise such work. In addition, they shall be responsible for conformity with the permit, provide copies of inspection reports as inspections are performed, and upon completion make and file with the chief building inspector written affidavit that the work has been done in conformity with the reviewed plans and with the structural provisions of the technical codes. In the event such architect or engineer is not available, the owner shall employ in his stead a competent person or agency whose qualifications are reviewed by the chief building inspector.
Section 5.4.26 - Plans.
When the chief building inspector issues a permit, he shall endorse, in writing or by stamp, both sets of plans "Reviewed for Code Compliance." The chief building inspector shall retain one (1) set of drawings so reviewed and the other set shall be returned to the applicant. The permitted drawings shall be kept at the site of work and shall be open to inspection by the chief building inspector or his authorized representative.
Section 5.4.27 - Prescribed Fees.
A permit shall not be issued until the fees prescribed by the governing body have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase in the estimated cost of the building, structure, electrical, plumbing, mechanical or gas systems, etc. has been paid.
Section 5.4.28 - Work Commencing before Permit Issuance.
Any person who commences any work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary permits, shall be subject to a penalty of one hundred (100) percent of the usual permit fee in addition to the required permit fees.
Section 5.4.29 - Accounting.
The chief building inspector shall keep a permanent and accurate accounting of all permit fees and other money collected, the names of all persons upon whose account the same was paid, along with the date and amount thereof.
Section 5.4.30 - Schedule of Permit Fees.
On all buildings, structures, electrical, plumbing, mechanical and gas systems or alterations requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required at the time of filing application, in accordance with the fee schedules as set by the governing body and maintained by the community development department.
Section 5.4.31 - Building Permit Valuations.
If, in the opinion of the chief building inspector, the valuation of building, alteration, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems appears to be underestimated on the application, permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates to meet the approval of the chief building inspector. Permit valuations shall include total cost, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and other systems, including materials and labor.
Section 5.4.32 - Posting of Permit.
Work requiring a permit shall not commence until the permit holder or his agent posts the permit card in a conspicuous place on the premises. The permit shall be protected from the weather and located in such position as to permit the chief building inspector or representative to conveniently make the required entries thereon. This permit card shall be maintained in such position by the permit holder until the certificate of occupancy or completion is issued by the chief building inspector.
Section 5.4.33 - Revocation of Permits; Misrepresentation.
The chief building inspector may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the provisions of this Code, in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
Section 5.4.34 - Violation of Code Provisions.
The chief building inspector may revoke a permit upon a finding that the construction erection, alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of this Code.
Section 5.4.35 - Existing-Building Inspections.
Before issuing a permit the chief building inspector may examine or cause to be examined any building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems for which an application has been received for a permit to enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, install, or change the occupancy. He shall inspect all buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems, from time to time, during and upon completion of the work for which a permit was issued. He shall make a record of every such examination and inspection and of all violations of the technical codes.
Section 5.4.36 - Manufacturers and Fabricators.
When deemed necessary by the chief building inspector he shall make, or cause to be made, an inspection of materials or assemblies at the point of manufacture or fabrication. A record shall be made of every such examination and inspection and of all violations of the technical codes.
Section 5.4.37 - Inspection Service.
The chief building inspector may make, or cause to be made, the inspections required by section 5.4.39. He may accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection services provided that after investigation he is satisfied as to their qualifications and reliability. A certificate called for by any provision of the technical codes shall not be based on such reports unless the same are in writing and certified by a responsible officer of such service.
Section 5.4.38 - Inspections Prior to Issuance of Certificate of Occupancy or Completion.
The chief building inspector shall inspect or cause to be inspected at various intervals all construction or work for which a permit is required. A final inspection shall be made of every building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system upon completion, prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy or completion.
Section 5.4.39 - Required Inspections.
The chief building inspector upon notification from the permit holder or his agent shall make the following inspections and such other inspections as necessary, and shall either release that portion of the construction or shall notify the permit holder or his agent of any violations which must be corrected in order to comply with the technical code:
(a)
Building:
(1)
Footing/Foundation/Foundation Wall Inspection: To be made after trenches are excavated, the reinforcement in place, and the forms erected, prior to the placing of concrete.
(2)
Slab/Monolithic Slab Inspection: To be made prior to the placing of concrete.
(3)
Frame Inspection: To be made after the roof, all framing, fire blocking and bracing, are in place, all concealed wiring, all pipes, chimneys, ducts and vents are complete.
(4)
Moisture Barrier Inspection: To be made prior to the installation of the exterior finish material.
(5)
Final Inspection: To be made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy.
(b)
Electrical:
(1)
Temporary Pole: To be made after the temporary power pole has been placed, properly grounded and ready to be energized.
(2)
Underground Inspection: To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, conduit or cable installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
(3)
Rough-In Inspection: To be made after the roof, framing, fire blocking and bracing is in place and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling-membranes.
(4)
Final Inspection: To be made after the building is complete, all required electrical fixtures are in place and properly connected or protected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
(c)
Plumbing:
(1)
Underground Inspection: To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, piping installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
(2)
Rough-In Inspection: To be made after the roof, framing, fire blocking and bracing is in place and all soil, waste and vent piping is complete, and prior to this installation of wall or ceiling membranes.
(3)
Final Inspection: To be made after the building is complete, all plumbing fixtures are in place and properly connected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
(4)
Required Tests: Tests performed as required by code.
(d)
Mechanical:
(1)
Underground Inspection: To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, underground duct and fuel piping installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
(2)
Rough-In Inspection: To be made after the roof, framing, fire blocking and bracing are in place and all ducting, and other concealed components are complete, and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.
(3)
Final Inspection: To be made after the building is complete, the mechanical system is in place and properly connected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
(e)
Gas:
(1)
Rough Piping Inspection: To be made after all new piping authorized by the permit has been installed, and before any such piping has been covered or concealed or any fixtures or gas appliances have been connected.
(2)
Final Piping Inspection: To be made after all piping authorized by the permit has been installed and after all portions which are to be concealed by plastering or otherwise have been so concealed, and before any fixtures or gas appliances have been connected. This inspection shall include a pressure test.
(3)
Final Inspection: To be made on all new gas work authorized by the permit and such portions of existing systems as may be affected by new work or any changes, to insure compliance with all the requirements of this Code and to assure that the installation and construction of the gas system is in accordance with reviewed plans.
(f)
Energy:
(1)
Foundation Inspection: To be made before slab concrete is poured in place. To verify that perimeter insulation has been installed correctly on any slab on grade foundations, if required.
(2)
Frame Inspection: To be made before exterior wall insulation is concealed by wall board to check installation of exterior walls insulation and to inspect that all holes and cracks through the structure envelope have been sealed in an appropriate manner as to restrict air passage.
(3)
Final Inspection: To be made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. To verify installation and R-value of ceiling and floor insulation. A completed energy code compliance certificate shall be installed in or near the electrical panel as required by code.
(2012-08-13, § 9, Amended, 08/27/2012)
Section 5.4.40 - Inspection Fees.
The chief building inspector shall maintain a schedule of fees applicable to inspections required under the electrical, mechanical, plumbing or gas codes. Such fees shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
Section 5.4.41 - Written Releases.
Work shall not be done on any part of a building structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining a written release from the chief building inspector. Such written release shall be given only after an inspection has been made of each successive step in the construction or installation as indicated by each of the foregoing three inspections.
Section 5.4.42 - Reinforcing Steel, Structural Frames, Insulation, Plumbing, Mechanical, or Electrical Systems.
Reinforcing steel, structural frame, insulation, plumbing work of any part of any building or structure shall not be covered or concealed without first obtaining a release from the chief building inspector.
Section 5.4.43 - Plaster Fire Protection.
In all buildings where plaster is used for fire protection purposes, the permit holder or his agent shall notify the chief building inspector after all lathing and backing is in place. Plaster shall not be applied until the release from the chief building inspector has been received.
Section 5.4.44 - Right of Entry.
(a)
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this Code, or whenever the chief building inspector has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which makes such building, structure, premises, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the chief building inspector may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the chief building inspector by these technical codes. If such building or premises is occupied, he shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure, or premises is unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such and request entry. If entry is refused, the chief building inspector shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
(b)
When the chief building inspector shall have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the chief building inspector for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this Code.
Section 5.4.45 - Stop Work Orders.
Upon notice from the chief building inspector, work on any building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system that is being done contrary to the provisions of the technical codes or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Where an emergency exists because the work done is so inferior as to pose an immediate threat to health, safety and public welfare, the chief building inspector shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
Section 5.4.46 - Certificate of Occupancy.
A new building shall not be occupied or a change made in the occupancy, nature or use of a building or part of a building until after the chief building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy. Said certificate shall not be issued until all required electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing, and fire protection systems have been inspected for compliance with the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances and released by the chief building inspector.
Section 5.4.47 - Same—Issuing.
Upon satisfactory completion of construction of a building or structure and installation of electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems in accordance with the technical codes, reviewed plans and specifications, and after the final inspection, the chief building inspector shall issue a certificate of occupancy stating the nature of the occupancy permitted, the number of persons for each floor when limited by law, and the allowable load per square foot for each floor in accordance with the provisions of the technical codes.
Section 5.4.48 - Temporary/Partial Occupancy.
A temporary/partial certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion of a building that may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building.
Section 5.4.49 - Existing Building Certificate of Occupancy.
A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the chief building inspector and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with the technical codes for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the opinion of the chief building inspector, two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
Section 5.4.50 - Certificate of Completion.
Upon satisfactory completion of a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, a certificate of completion may be issued. This certificate is proof that a structure or system is complete and for certain types of permits is released for use and may be connected to a utility system. This certificate does not grant authority to occupy or connect a building, such as a shell building, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
Section 5.4.51 - Connection of Service Utilities.
No person shall make connections from a utility, source of energy, fuel or power to any building, or system which is regulated by the technical codes for which a permit is required, until released by the chief building inspector and a certificate of occupancy or completion is issued.
Section 5.4.52 - Temporary Connection.
The chief building inspector may authorize the temporary connection of the building, or system to the utility source of energy, fuel or power for the purpose of testing building service systems or for use under a temporary certificate of occupancy.
Section 5.4.53 - Authority to Disconnect Service Utilities.
The chief building inspector shall have the power to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building structure or system regulated by the technical codes, in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. The chief building inspector shall notify the serving utility, and whenever possible the owner and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter.
Section 5.4.54 - Posting on Construction Sites.
Prior to commencing any land disturbance activities on a construction site for which a permit has been issued, the party to whom the permit has been issued is required to post on such site, in a conspicuous place, a sign which contains the following information:
(a)
The name, address and phone number of the party responsible for the project;
(b)
The property owner's name, address and phone number;
(c)
The name and phone numbers of the city code enforcement personnel to whom code violations can be reported.
Failure to abide by such posting requirement shall be a violation of this article and may result in a stop work order being issued in addition to any penalties specified in this article or section 1.1.3 of the Code of Ordinances.
Section 5.4.55 - Floor Loads.
An existing or new building shall not be occupied for any purpose, which will cause the floors thereof to be loaded beyond their safe capacity. The chief building inspector may permit occupancy of a building for mercantile, commercial or industrial purposes, by a specific business, when he is satisfied that such capacity will not thereby be exceeded.
Section 5.4.56 - Storage and Factory—Industrial Occupancies.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner, agent, proprietor or occupant of Group S and Group F occupancies, or any occupancy where excessive floor loading is likely to occur, to employ a competent architect or engineer in computing the safe load capacity. All such computations shall be accompanied by an affidavit from the architect or engineer stating the safe allowable floor load on each floor in pounds per square foot uniformly distributed. The computations and affidavit shall be filed as a permanent record of the building department.
Section 5.4.57 - Posting Required.
In every building or part of a building used for storage, industrial or hazardous purposes, the safe floor loads, as reviewed by the chief building inspector on the plans, shall be marked on plates of approved design which shall be supplied and securely affixed by the owner of the building, in a conspicuous place in each story to which they relate. Such plates shall not be removed or defaced, and if lost, removed or defaced, shall be replaced by the owner of the building.
