Article 5.1 - In General

Section 5.1.1 - Purpose and Scope.
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate building and construction in the City of Roswell, to provide for the administration and enforcement of the Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes and to establish procedures for the permitting and inspection of buildings within the City of Roswell.
Section 5.1.2 - Chief Building Official.
There is hereby created the position of chief building official who shall administer the provisions of this chapter and have the powers, duties and responsibilities described herein and as stated in the state minimum codes. The chief building official shall serve as the "building official" of the City of Roswell as such term is used in the state minimum codes, and shall enforce and interpret the building and technical codes adopted by this chapter. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the city from contracting with a qualified professional or professionals to perform the duties, administration and responsibilities of the chief or assistant building official(s) of the city and such professional(s) shall have full power and authority under this chapter and as stated in the state minimum codes to perform all duties therein.
(2012-07-10, ยง 1, Amended, 07/09/2012)
Section 5.1.3 - Supervision.
The chief building official shall be retained by, report to and work under the direct supervision of the director of community development. The director of community development with the approval of the city administrator may hire qualified assistant building official(s) as is required or necessary to properly enforce the building and technical codes.
(2012-07-10, ยง 2, Amended, 07/09/2012)
Section 5.1.4 - Code Remedial.
The codes referenced in this chapter are hereby declared to be remedial. They shall be construed to protect public safety, health, and general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems, which may be referred to as service systems.
Section 5.1.5 - Federal and State Authority.
The provisions of this Code shall not be held to deprive any federal or state agency, or any applicable governing authority having jurisdiction, of any power or authority which it had on the effective date of the adoption of this Code or of any remedy then existing for the enforcement of its orders.
Section 5.1.6 - Maintenance.
All buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing, systems, both existing and new, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. All devices or safeguards, which are required by the technical codes when constructed, altered, or repaired, shall be maintained in good working order. The owner, or his designated agent, shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems.
Section 5.1.7 - Restrictions on City Employees.
An officer or employee connected with the building department, except one whose only connection is as a member of the board established by this Code, shall not be financially interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building, structure, service, system, or in the making of plans or of specifications thereof, unless he is the owner of such. This officer or employee shall not engage in any other work that is inconsistent with his duties or conflicts with the interests of the department.
Section 5.1.8 - Liability.
(a)
The inspection or permitting of any building, system or plan, under the requirements of this Code shall not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system or plan or their adequacy. Neither The City of Roswell nor any employee thereof, shall be liable in tort for damages for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such, which may occur subsequent to such inspection or permitting.
(b)
Any City of Roswell official or employee, or member of the board of adjustments and appeals, charged with the enforcement of this Code, acting for the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability, for any damage that may occur to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought against any officer or employee or member because of such act performed by him in the enforcement of any provision of this Code shall be defended by the city attorney or such attorneys as he may appoint until the final termination of the proceedings.
Section 5.1.9 - Records.
The chief building inspector shall keep, or cause to be kept, a record of the business of the department. The records of the department shall be open to public inspection.
Section 5.1.10 - Reports.
The chief building inspector shall submit annually a report covering the work of the building department during the preceding year. He may incorporate in said report a summary of the decisions of the board of adjustments and appeals during said year.
Sections 5.1.11, 5.1.12 - Reserved.
Section 5.1.13 - Construction Activities Restricted to Certain Hours.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or conduct any activity in the construction of any building or structure, the moving of earth, or the laying of any pavement, including, but not limited to, the making of any excavation, clearing or grading of surface land, and loading or unloading material, equipment, or supplies, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, unless a permit for each work at different hours or days has first been issued by the chief building inspector. Applications for such permits shall be made in writing to the chief building inspector and shall state the name of the applicant, his business address, the location of the proposed work, the reason for seeking a permit to do such work on Sunday or between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and the estimated time of the proposed operation. No such special permit shall be issued except where the public peace, health, or welfare will not be adversely affected by such issuance or will be harmed by failure to perform the work at the times indicated. The foregoing provisions shall not apply to any person performing construction activity at his or her residence, but such persons are subject to the noise restrictions set out in subsection 8.8.3(s) of this Code.
(2009-12-21, ยง 1, Amended, 12/21/2009)
