Article 5.5 - Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals

Section 5.5.1 - Creation of Board.
There is hereby created the Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals, which board shall have the power to hear appeals of decisions and interpretations of the chief building inspector and consider variances of the technical codes as described in chapter 1, section 108 of the Standard Building Code. Appointments to such board shall be made as directed by the City of Roswell ordinance relating to boards and commissions. Board members shall be subject to the City of Roswell Code of Ethics, Article 2.5.
Section 5.5.2 - Secretary of Board.
The chief building inspector shall act as secretary of the board and shall make a detailed record of all its proceedings, which shall set forth the reasons for its decision, the vote of each member, the absence of a member and any failure of a member to vote.
Section 5.5.3 - Powers.
The Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall have the power, as further defined in article 5.4, to hear the appeals of decisions and interpretations of the chief building inspector and consider variances of the technical codes.
Section 5.5.4 - Grounds for Appeal.
The owner of a building, structure or service system, or his duly authorized agent, may appeal a decision of the chief building inspector to the Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals whenever any one (1) of the following conditions are claimed to exist:
(1)
The chief building inspector rejected or refused to approve the mode or manner of construction proposed to be followed or materials to be used in the installation or alteration of a building, structure or service system.
(2)
The provisions of this Code do not apply to this specific case.
(3)
That an equally good or more desirable form of installation can be employed in any specific case.
(4)
The true intent and meaning of this Code or any of the regulations thereunder have been misconstrued or incorrectly interpreted.
Section 5.5.5 - Variances.
The Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, when so appealed to and after a hearing, may vary the application of any provision of this Code to any particular case when, in its opinion, the enforcement thereof would do manifest injustice and would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of this Code or other technical codes or public interest, and also finds all of the following:
(1)
That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the building, structure or service system involved and which are not applicable to others.
(2)
That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the action or inaction of the applicant.
(3)
That granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any special privilege that is denied by this Code to other buildings, structures or service systems.
(4)
That the variance granted is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of the building, structure or service system.
(5)
That the grant of the variance will be in harmony with the general intent and purpose of this Code and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety and general welfare.
In granting the variance, the board may prescribe a reasonable time limit within which the action for which the variance is required shall be commenced or completed or both. In addition, the board may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this Code. Violation of the conditions of a variance shall be deemed a violation of this Code.
Section 5.5.6 - Notice of Appeal.
Notice of appeal shall be in writing and filed within thirty (30) calendar days after the decision is rendered by the chief building inspector. Appeals shall be in a form acceptable to the chief building inspector. A fee of $50.00 shall accompany such notice of appeal.
Section 5.5.7 - Unsafe or Dangerous Buildings or Service Systems.
In the case of a building, structure, or service system, which, in the opinion of the chief building inspector, is unsafe, unsanitary or dangerous, the chief building inspector may, in his decision, limit the time for such notice of appeal to a shorter period.
Section 5.5.8 - Decisions.
The Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall, in every case, reach a decision without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. Each decision of the board shall also include the reasons for the decision. If a decision of the Board reverses or modifies a refusal, order, or disallowance of the chief building inspector or varies the application of any provision of this Code, the chief building inspector shall immediately take action in accordance with such decision. Every decision shall be promptly filed in writing in the office of the building official and shall be open to public inspection. A certified copy of the decision shall be sent by mail or otherwise to the appellant and a copy shall be kept publicly posted in the office of the chief building inspector for two (2) weeks after filing. Every decision of the board shall be final; subject however to such remedy as any aggrieved party might have at law or in equity.
