The Charter
Article Ch.1 - Incorporation and Boundaries

Section Ch.1.10 - Reincorporation.
This Act shall constitute the whole charter of the City of Roswell, Georgia, repealing and replacing the charter approved in 1971 by Act No. 568 of the General Assembly of the State of Georgia and as amended from time to time by Act of the General Assembly or Home Rule. The City of Roswell, Georgia, in the County of Fulton, and the inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the "City of Roswell, Georgia", and by that name shall have perpetual succession and may exercise the powers enumerated herein and all those granted to such bodies.
Section Ch.1.20 - Corporate Boundaries.
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on January 20, 2000, a complete legal description of such boundaries is attached hereto and set forth as Exhibit "A", and as same may be altered from time to time in accordance with applicable laws. The City Engineer or his designee shall prepare a map to be designated "Official Map of the Corporate Limits of the City of Roswell, Georgia," showing the corporate boundaries as the same may exist as of the date of adoption of this Charter. The City Engineer or his designee shall prepare a written description of the corporate boundaries as shown on said map. Said map and description shall be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk as the official map and description of the corporate boundaries of the city. Immediately upon alteration of the corporate boundaries made pursuant to law from time to time, the City Engineer shall indicate such alterations by making appropriate changes in or additions to said official map and description. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the entire map or maps which it is designated to replace. Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
Section Ch.1.30 - Extension of Corporate Boundaries.
The corporate boundaries of the city may be changed, altered or extended from time to time, through annexation or deannexation in accordance with applicable general laws of the State of Georgia. The city clerk shall at all times keep a correct and complete description of recent annexations or deannexations and may maintain a map showing all annexations and deannexations.
Article Ch.2 - Corporate Powers

Section Ch.2.10 - Powers and Construction.
(1)
All powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies and employees, shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no such provision, such powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by pertinent, applicable general laws of Georgia and if not so provided in the general laws, then as provided by ordinance, resolution or other action of the Mayor and Council.
(2)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
Section Ch.2.20 - Corporate Powers.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the city council, shall include the following:
(1)
Air and water pollution. To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city.
(2)
Animal regulations. To regulate, license, tax, or prohibit, the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, in violations of any ordinance or lawful orders; to provide punishment for violations of ordinances enacted hereunder.
(3)
Appropriation and expenditures. To appropriate and borrow money, to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose or for matters of national or state interest.
(4)
Building regulations. To regulate and to license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt the state minimum standard codes for building, housing, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, gas, energy and others necessary for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(5)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions; to license and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes; and to revoke such licenses after due process for the failure to pay any city taxes or fees.
(6)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. or such other laws as may be enacted.
(7)
Contracts. To contract with other governmental entities for joint services or the exchange of services; to contract with such agencies or subdivisions for the joint use of facilities or equipment; and to contract with any such agency or subdivision and with private persons, firms, and corporations to perform any service or execute any project in which the municipality has an interest.
(8)
Economic development. To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising said city and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital, commercial, manufacturing and other enterprises into the city, and also to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city and for the support of public hospitals and libraries.
(9)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists inside or outside the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city.
(10)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business within the city and benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees by imposing a lien against the property served if such fees are unpaid; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges.
(11)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental or likely to be detrimental to the health, morals, safety, security, peace and convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(12)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose.
(13)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(14)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the public streets of the city; to provide for the commitment of such persons to any jail; or to provide for the commitment of such persons to any county work camp, or jail, by agreement with the appropriate governmental officials.
(15)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city.
(16)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same.
(17)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(18)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city.
(19)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof.
(20)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties therefore; and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same.
(21)
Nuisances. To define a nuisance and to provide for its abatement whether on public or private property. The municipal court judge shall have jurisdiction over all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The city council may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten (10) days after written notice from the city to do so and after an opportunity to be heard on same.
(22)
Ordinances, rules and regulations. To make, establish and adopt such bylaws, ordinances, policies, and rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof, and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the city provided that no ordinances shall be enacted inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter, or the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(23)
Specific penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia, and to provide penalties for the violation of Fulton County board of health rules and regulations and Fulton County health and sanitation ordinances.
(24)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning and to provide subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, aesthetics, prosperity, or general welfare, and for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings, or other uses of property; or for the purpose of regulating the height and location of the buildings, fences or other structures; or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages; or for the purpose of preserving buildings, structures or areas having national, regional, state or local historic significance; or for the purpose of maintaining or improving the aesthetic appearance of any buildings, structures or areas. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one (1) or more of the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area as the mayor and councilmen of said city shall deem best to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations.
(25)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers and to establish, operate, or contract for a police or firefighting agency.
(26)
Public hazards; removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public.
(27)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, public buildings, libraries, public housing, sewers, sewage treatment, airports, hospitals, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport and curative, correctional, detention, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; to provide for any other public improvements inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and, for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(28)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances.
(29)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial.
(30)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services not to exceed periods of thirty-five (35) years, and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations of the public service commission.
(31)
Regulation of roadside areas. To regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, inside or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances.
(32)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan for officers and employees of the city.
(33)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to negotiate and execute leases over, through and under any city property or the right-of-way of any street, road, alley and walkway or portion thereof within the corporate limits of the city and to charge a rental therefore in such a manner as may be provided by ordinance; and to grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities and for private use; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands and to impose penalties for failure to do so.
(34)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system; to levy on those to whom sewers and sewerage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge, or tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charge and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose, and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system.
(35)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and provide for the sale of such items.
(36)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawn shops, the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors, and the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, escort services and health spas by taxation or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult businesses, and massage parlors.
(37)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs of any public improvements.
(38)
Taxes—Ad valorem. To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, reevaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation for state and county purposes; and to contract with any city, county or other governmental and political subdivision for the ministerial acts of billing and collection of city ad valorem taxes, or other fees, assessments, or taxes, as the city council may by resolution authorize.
(39)
Taxes—Other. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law.
(40)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles.
(41)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program.
(42)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated in this Charter; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
(43)
Redevelopment powers. To undertake and carry out community redevelopment, to create tax allocation districts, to issue tax allocation bonds, and to incur other obligations within the meaning of and as fully permitted under the provisions of Article IX, Section II, Paragraph VII of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983, as amended, and to exercise redevelopment powers as fully as the "Redevelopment Powers Law" may now or hereafter permit and not to limit any redevelopment powers permitted under the "Redevelopment Powers Law".
(2010 Ga. L. (Act No. 527))
Section Ch.2.30 - Authority of officers and employees to exercise powers.
The full faith and credit of the City of Roswell shall be behind all elected officers, appointed officers, employees, members of boards, commissions and authorities, and the city shall indemnify them, to the extent allowed by law, for all costs and judgments suffered as a result of any and all actions taken pursuant to their official capacity for the City of Roswell.
Article Ch.3 - Government Structure

Section Ch.3.10 - Establishment of City Government.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and six (6) councilmembers. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected in the manner provided by Article V of this Charter.
Section Ch.3.20 - Vesting of Governing Authority.
The mayor and council shall be vested with full legislative power. Through exercise of such power the city council may establish, abolish, merge or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city; may provide that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city.
Section Ch.3.30 - Qualifications for Mayor and Councilmen.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman, a person must have attained the age of twenty-one (21) years prior to the date of the election; must meet the requirements of a qualified voter of said city, as prescribed by state law; must have been a bona fide resident of the City of Roswell for at least one (1) year prior to the date of the election in which he offers as a candidate, and shall continue to reside in the city during that member's period of service.
Section Ch.3.40 - Posts.
Those persons presently elected to office shall continue to serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified as provided by law.
All councilmember positions shall be designated by post numbers one (1) through six (6). All candidates for election to councilmember positions shall designate at the time of qualifying the position to which they are seeking election. All positions are at large positions. Councilmember position now held by Paula Winiski is hereby designated as post one (1), councilmember position now held by Terry Joyner is hereby designated as post two (2), councilmember position now held by David Tolleson is hereby designated as post three (3), councilmember position now held by Kristen Riley is hereby designated as post four (4), councilmember position now held by Jerry Orlans is hereby designated as post five (5), councilmember position now held by Sally White is hereby designated as post six (6).The mayor and candidates for councilmember positions numbers four (4), five (5), and six (6) shall be elected in the November 2001 election. Candidates for councilmember positions numbers one (1), two (2), and three (3) shall be elected in the November 2003 election.
Section Ch.3.50 - Terms of Office.
The terms of office for the city council shall begin on the first Monday in January following their election and shall continue for four years and until their successors are elected. No person who has been elected to three or more four-year terms of office as mayor shall be eligible for election to the office of mayor.
(2010 Ga. L. (Act No. 528))
Section Ch.3.60 - Terms of City Council.
No person elected as a councilmember in the general municipal election of 2017, or any election thereafter, shall serve as a councilmember for more than three consecutive four-year terms of office and shall not include any partial term of office. No terms of office served prior to January 1, 2018, shall be considered in determining if a person has served more than three consecutive four-year terms of office.
(2017 Ga. L ( Act No. 118 )
Section Ch.3.70 - City Council Meetings.
The city council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place as provided by ordinance. The city council shall meet in special sessions on call of either the mayor, or the mayor pro-tem and two (2) councilmen, when notice of which has been served on the other members personally or left at their residence at least twelve (12) hours in advance of the meeting. As an alternative method of notifying members, or in addition to personal notice, notice of a special meeting may be given by telephoning the other members. If the telephone method is used, the first order of business in the special session shall be to enter upon the minutes of the meeting an oath or affidavit of the mayor, or the mayor pro-tem and two (2) councilmen calling the special session, attested to by the city clerk or by any other member of the council, or any person authorized to administer oaths, containing a statement that each councilman was either notified personally by telephone by the person making the oath or affidavit or was not capable of being so notified by reason of lack of knowledge of his whereabouts, or his absence from the state, and the statement must contain the purpose for which the meeting is called. Any person who is found guilty of false-swearing as defined by O.C.G.A. § 16-10-71 in the above proceeding shall be punished as provided by law. Any action taken in a special session which was called by a person later found guilty of false-swearing regarding the telephone notice of any member shall be void, unless ratified unanimously at a regular city council meeting held after said person or persons are found guilty. A ratification of action taken in such a special session by the council prior to a conviction for false-swearing shall not be effective. Nothing in this section shall preclude the city council from bringing any matter up for consideration contained in a special session at a regular meeting of the city council. Any liability to the city arising from action taken by the city council pursuant to a special session in which telephone notice is given, and in which the person calling the meeting is found guilty of false-swearing shall be considered waived if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called or convened. Only the business stated in the written call or in the oath or affidavit required for telephone notice may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the council. The city council shall exercise its powers in public meetings.
Section Ch.3.80 - Continuance of Hearings.
If a public hearing is set for a given date, and quorum is not then present, the hearing shall be continued until the next regular council meeting without further advertising. The city council may continue any public hearing without further advertising.
Section Ch.3.90 - Mayor's Powers.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city government, presiding officer of the city council and responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules, regulations, ordinances and franchises in the city. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such powers and duties as specified herein or as may be provided by ordinance consistent with this Charter.
As the chief executive the mayor shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the city council.
(2)
Be the head of the city for the purpose of service of process and for ceremonial purposes and be the official spokesman for the city and the chief advocate of policy.
(3)
Have the power to administer oaths.
(4)
See that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed.
(5)
Sign as a matter of course on behalf of the city any written and approved contracts, ordinances, and other instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing.
(6)
Submit to the city council at least once a year a statement covering the financial conditions of the city.
(7)
Vote only in case of a tie on any motion, resolution, ordinance, or other question before the council and vote on any matter before a committee on which he serves.
(8)
Obtain short term loans in the name of the city when authorized by the city council to do so.
(9)
Appoint councilmembers to oversee and report on the functions of the various departments of the city.
(10)
Require the members of the several departments of the city to meet with him at a time and place designated for consultation and advice upon the affairs of the city.
(11)
Name qualified residents of the city to boards and commissions with approval of the city council.
(12)
Make recommendations with respect to the employ or termination of city employees.
(13)
Prepare or have prepared an agenda for each meeting of the city council which shall include all business submitted by the mayor, any councilmember, the city administrator and the city attorney.
(14)
Fulfill and perform such other duties imposed by this Charter and duly adopted ordinances.
Section Ch.3.100 - Mayor Pro-tem.
Annually, by majority vote, at the first regularly scheduled meeting in the month of January, the council shall elect a mayor pro-tem from their members. Should the election result in a tie, the Mayor shall vote to break the tie. The mayor pro-tem shall serve for one (1) year or until another Mayor pro-tem is elected, provided a councilmember shall not be eligible to serve consecutive terms as mayor pro-tem. The mayor pro-tem shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor during the mayor's disability or absence. If the mayor pro-tem is absent because of sickness or disqualification, any one (1) of the remaining councilmembers, elected by the members present, shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the mayor's duties.
(Resolution No. 2004-01-03 dated January 5, 2004)
Section Ch.3.110 - Compensation and Benefits.
The city council may determine the salary of the mayor and councilmen by ordinance, provided the salary changes enacted shall not become effective until the first regular meeting after the next general election. Each councilman and the mayor, when authorized by the city council, and upon presentation of itemized vouchers, shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
Section Ch.3.120 - Oath of Office.
Before entering upon the discharge of duty each elected or appointed officer shall take and subscribe to the following such oath or affirmation:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Georgia; and that I will in all respects observe the provisions of the Charter and ordinances of the City of Roswell, and I will well and truly perform the duties of the office of ___________, and that I will to the utmost of my skill and ability endeavor to promote the interest and property of said city, without fear, favor or affection. So help me God."
Section Ch.3.130 - Voting When Personally Interested.
Neither the mayor nor any councilmember shall vote upon, sign, or veto any ordinance, resolution, contract, or other matter in which he is personally interested. A member of the city council is personally interested in a matter if he or a member of his immediate family has a direct financial interest in the matter.
Section Ch.3.140 - Quorum; Voting.
Four (4) councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. The mayor, or mayor pro tempore, if presiding, may vote only in case of a tie, and the mayor may be counted toward a quorum as any other councilmember.
The affirmative vote of a majority of the councilmembers present and voting shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this Charter. Changes to the Charter shall require four (4) affirmative votes.
Section Ch.3.150 - Rules of procedure.
The city council may, by ordinance, adopt rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business; including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. Such rules may include punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in the presence of the city council.
Section Ch.3.160 - Mayor's Veto.
(1)
Except for council approval of appointments to committees, boards and commissions, the employment of any appointed officer, internal affairs, or matters which must be approved by the voters, the mayor may veto any action adopted by the city council.
(2)
The veto must be exercised at the meeting following that at which the action was taken.
(3)
An action vetoed by the mayor shall automatically be on the agenda at the next regular meeting of the city council for reconsideration. If the minimum number of councilmembers necessary to vote on overriding the veto are not present, the action may be continued until the next meeting at which the minimum number of councilmembers is present. Such action shall not become effective unless it is readopted by two-thirds (⅔) of the members of council within sixty (60) days of the veto.
Section Ch.3.170 - Reserved.
Section Ch.3.180 - City Legislation.
Any action of the city council having a regulatory or penal effect or required to be done by ordinance under this Act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least a majority of those present and voting shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall place a copy into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations, now in force in the City of Roswell, Georgia not inconsistent with this Act, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the mayor and city council.
Section Ch.3.190 - Reading of Ordinances.
No ordinance, except in the case of emergency, which shall be stated in the ordinance, shall be approved until the title of said ordinance shall have been read at two (2) city council meetings, provided that the beginning of said meetings be not less than twenty-four (24) hours nor more than sixty (60) days apart. Provided, however, that if the ordinance is being enacted to amend this Charter, it shall be read at two (2) consecutive regular meetings not less than seven (7) nor more than sixty (60) days apart. A copy of the entire ordinance shall be available to those in attendance at the meetings at which the title of said ordinance is read.
Section Ch.3.200 - Codification of Ordinances.
(1)
The city council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city council by ordinance and shall be published promptly together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known as the City of Roswell, Georgia Code of Ordinances, and when same is adopted by the city council, the code shall be admitted in evidence in any of the courts of this state, upon certification by the city clerk.
(2)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this Charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and Charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city council. Following publication of the first code under this Charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein and for incorporation in an electronic database.
Article Ch.4 - Appointive Officers and Personnel

Section Ch.4.10 - City Administrator.
The mayor and council shall by majority vote appoint a city administrator and set his compensation and term of office. The city administrator shall be chosen on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference given to his actual experience in and his knowledge of the duties of his office. He shall function as the chief administrative and budget officer of the city and shall be vested with the authority and responsibility to oversee and supervise the regular business affairs of the city. The city administrator shall exercise executive supervision over all city employees and departments and may head one (1) or more city departments as necessary. The city administrator may have such other duties as the mayor and council may require including functioning as the city clerk.
Section Ch.4.20 - Department Heads and Appointed Officials.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or general state law, the directors of departments and other appointed officials of this city provided for by this Charter shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications. Such directors and officials shall receive compensation as determined by mayor and council.
Section Ch.4.30 - Removal of Department Heads and Appointed Officials.
Unless otherwise specified, all appointive officers, heads of departments and subordinate employees shall be subject to removal or discharge by the person or body appointing them, with or without cause, at any time.
Section Ch.4.40 - City Clerk.
The city council shall appoint a city clerk who shall serve at the pleasure of the city council. The city clerk shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the city council; attending meetings of the city council and preparing minutes of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered, and the text of each resolution or ordinance considered; preparing and certifying copies of official records in his office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the city council.
Section Ch.4.50 - City Attorney.
The city council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized, and shall provide for the payment of such attorneys for services rendered to the city if such attorney is not an employee of the city. The city attorney or such assistant city attorneys may be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may, at the discretion of the city council, be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the city council as directed; shall advise the council, mayor and other officers and employees of the city, concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required by him by virtue of his position as city attorney or as provided by the mayor and councilmen.
Section Ch.4.60 - Personnel Policies.
The city council may adopt rules and regulations consistent with this Charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of a position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected;
(4)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and
(5)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
(6)
Political activity of officers and employees of the city.
(7)
The employment of relatives of members of the city council.
Section Ch.4.70 - Bond.
The city council shall have the right to require bond from each appointive officer or employee of the city in such amounts as said city council may from time to time fix by ordinance or resolution and conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of his office and accounting for all moneys, credits and things of value coming into the hands of such officer or employee; and all such bonds shall be signed as surety by some surety company authorized to do business under the laws of the state, and the premiums accruing thereon shall be paid by the City of Roswell.
Article Ch.5 - Elections and Removal

Section Ch.5.10 - Georgia Election Code.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the election of all officials of the City of Roswell where provision is made for election by the qualified electors thereof, shall be conducted as to special or general elections in conformity so far as applicable with the provisions of the general election code at Title 21 Chapter 2 of the O.C.G.A. as it now exists or may hereafter be amended. Whenever any time period established by said code is altered so as to change or supersede any time period provided herein, it shall be considered that the time periods provided herein will be correspondingly changed so as to avoid any conflict between this Charter and the general law of the state.
Section Ch.5.20 - Qualifying.
Qualification for municipal elections shall be governed by the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-132(c)(3).
Section Ch.5.30 - Election—Date and Conduct.
The city council may authorize Fulton County to conduct elections on the city's behalf at such times as set forth in the General Election Code.
Section Ch.5.40 - Runoff.
The candidates for mayor and councilmen who receive a majority of the votes cast in said election shall be elected to a term of office for four (4) years and until his successor is duly elected and qualified. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast in said election, a run-off election shall be held between the two (2) candidates receiving the highest number of votes. Such run-off shall be held at the time specified by state election law, unless such run-off date is postponed by court order.
Section Ch.5.50 - Candidacy While on Council.
The office of any member of city council shall be declared vacant upon such member qualifying for another state, county, or municipal elective office or qualifying for the House of Representatives or the Senate of the United States if the term of the office for which such official is qualifying for begins more than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of such official's present term of office.
Section Ch.5.60 - Restriction on Employment.
(1)
Except as authorized by law, no elected official of the City of Roswell shall hold any other city office or position of employment within the city during the term for which such official was elected.
(2)
No individual who is elected to the office of mayor, councilman, or chief judge of the municipal court, may hold any other office or position of employment of the City of Roswell for a period of six months after such individual ceases to hold such public office; provided this subsection shall not prohibit the mayor, councilmen, or chief judge of the municipal court from seeking reelection or from seeking election to another elective office of the City of Roswell.
Section Ch.5.70 - Candidacy of Employee or Board Member.
If a member of any board appointed by the city council, a city employee or appointive officer shall become a candidate for nomination or election to any City of Roswell public office, that person shall, upon qualifying for such office, forfeit the board position, employment or appointive office held, unless such prohibition is proscribed by state statute.
Section Ch.5.80 - Qualification of Electors.
Any person meeting the qualifications of an elector of members of the General Assembly under State law who has been a bona fide resident of the City of Roswell for ninety (90) days next preceding the election in which he desires to vote, or for such period as may otherwise be provided by the Georgia Municipal Election Code, shall be qualified to register as an elector in any city election held under this Charter.
Section Ch.5.90 - Special Election.
Any call for an election which is required to be made by the laws of this state shall be made by the city council.
Section Ch.5.100 - Reserved.
Section Ch.5.110 - Forfeiture of Office.
An elected official shall forfeit his right to hold office if he:
(1)
Is guilty of willful incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(2)
Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(3)
Fails at any time to possess any qualifications of office as provided by this chapter or by law;
(4)
Willfully violates any express prohibition of the City Charter;
(5)
Abandons his office or neglects to perform the duties thereof;
(6)
Fails to perform the duties of office as required by the City Charter or by state law.
(7)
Fails to attend three (3) consecutive meetings of city council, unless such absence is excused by the presiding officer of the council.
Section Ch.5.120 - Removal from Office.
Removal of an elected officer who forfeits his office as described herein shall be accomplished by one (1) of the following methods:
(1)
Removal of an elected officer from office may be initiated by two-thirds (⅔) vote of the entire membership of the council. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten (10) days after the service of such written notice by the city clerk. Following the public hearing, a vote of city council shall be taken. The mayor shall vote unless he is the individual sought to be removed. Removal shall require a unanimous vote provided that the individual sought to be removed shall not be entitled to vote. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as provided in this section shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Fulton County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court;
(2)
By order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
Section Ch.5.130 - Recall.
The qualified voters of the city shall have the power to recall and remove from office any elected official of the city as provided by the Recall Election Act of 1989 O.C.G.A. § 21-4-1 et seq.
Section Ch.5.140 - Vacancies.
The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in any manner authorized by this Charter or the general laws of the State of Georgia.
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilman resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, or the mayor or a councilman forfeits his office by being absent from three (3) consecutive regular meetings of the governing authority, except if granted a leave of absence (excused) by the city council and such leave of absence (excused) is entered on the minutes; or if he is adjudged legally incompetent, or is convicted of malfeasance in office or of a felony.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of a member of the council from any cause other than the expiration of a term of office, the vacancy shall be filled in the following manner:
(1)
If the vacancy occurs within twelve (12) months of the expiration of the term, but not within ninety (90) days prior to the regular city election, the vacancy shall be filled by the remaining members of the council electing a qualified person to serve out the unexpired term of office; provided, however, that at no time shall there be more than one (1) councilman so appointed holding office; and if a vacancy occurs on the city council with one (1) member so appointed on the city council, a special election shall be held within a period of sixty (60) days after the office becomes vacant pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this Charter and state election law; if said election is called, the previously filled vacancy and the existing vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired terms. Provided, however, if a regular election for the city shall be held within three (3) months after the second vacancy occurs, the vacancy previously filled by appointment and the second vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired terms at such regular election.
(2)
If the vacancy occurs within ninety (90) days prior to the regular city election, the vacancy shall be filled at such regular election under the same rules and regulations and provisions of law pertaining to the election of councilmen.
(3)
If the vacancy occurs at any other time not provided for above, the vacancy shall be filled by a special election called for that purpose by the city council within a period of sixty (60) days after the office becomes vacant. It shall be the duty of the city council to publish notice of the special election in the official organ of the city once a week for the two-week period immediately preceding said special election.
(4)
In the event a vacancy should occur in the office of the mayor, a special election shall be called and held in the manner prescribed by the Georgia Election Code as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, so long as the vacancy occurs at least three (3) months prior to the regular expiration date of the term. If the vacancy occurs within three (3) months of the expiration date, the mayor pro tem shall serve until the expiration date, and shall be authorized, during said period, to exercise all of the powers of the mayor provided by this Charter and the laws of this state.
Article Ch.6 - Fiscal Administration

Section Ch.6.10 - Fiscal Year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of every office department, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by action of mayor and council.
Section Ch.6.20 - Preparation of Budget.
(1)
The city council may provide a resolution on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of the annual operating budget, and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content, and form of such budgets and programs.
(2)
Budgets shall be prepared for the General Fund, Debt Service Fund, Water Fund, Sanitation Fund, E-911 Fund, Hotel-Motel Fund and any other special revenue fund as deemed necessary by the city council or mandated by state law.
Section Ch.6.30 - Submission of Operating Budget to City Council.
On or before a date fixed by the council, but not later than forty-five (45) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city administrator, with the approval of the mayor, shall submit to the city council a preliminary operating budget for the next fiscal year which shows the following:
(1)
The estimated revenues and proposed expenditures.
(2)
Such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the mayor and council.
Section Ch.6.40 - Operating Budget.
(1)
The city council may amend the proposed operating budget, except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year. The total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated revenues and the reserves of that fund.
(2)
The city council by ordinance shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year on or before June 30. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by said date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly, until such time as a city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year.
Section Ch.6.50 - Capital Improvements Budget.
(1)
On or before a date fixed by council, the city administrator, with the approval of the mayor may submit to the council a preliminary capital improvements budget with recommendations as to the means of financing such improvements.
(2)
At the beginning of each fiscal year, the council may adopt an appropriation ordinance based on the proposed capital improvement budget, with such modifications as the council deems necessary or desirable.
Section Ch.6.60 - Changes in Appropriations.
(1)
The city council may amend the amount of appropriations contained in the current budget, at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose.
(2)
Procedures for the transfer of funds within a given fund may be established by resolution of city council. Said transfers shall not increase the appropriation to a department.
Section Ch.6.70 - Unexpended Appropriations.
At the end of the fiscal year, all unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current budget shall lapse into the appropriate fund as unexpended reserves.
Section Ch.6.80 - Independent Audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds and financial transactions by a certified public accountant. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles.
Section Ch.6.90 - Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
A comprehensive annual financial report based on the annual independent audit of all city funds shall be prepared for each fiscal year.
Section Ch.6.100 - Reserved.
Section Ch.6.110 - Property Taxes and Tax Levies.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, for providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion. Following adoption of the annual budget the city council shall levy by ordinance or resolution such taxes as are necessary.
Section Ch.6.120 - Tax Assessments.
All property subject to taxation for state and county purposes assessed as of January 1, in each year, shall be returned on or before April 1. The city shall use the Fulton County assessing authority or such other authority as the city council may designate by ordinance. When the county assessing authority is used, the appeals shall also be processed by the county under its own rules or applicable state laws. If another authority is used appeals shall be processed by the city using the same process as the county.
Section Ch.6.130 - Tax Due Date and Tax Bills.
The city council by ordinance or resolution, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax. The due date and time period within which these taxes must be paid shall be established by resolution. Without a resolution to the contrary the tax due date shall be no later than December 31 of the tax year. The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers showing the assessed valuations, homestead exemptions if any amount of taxes due, tax due dates, and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. The city council by ordinance or resolution may provide the method of payment by installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time due. When taxes are delinquent, a one time penalty of ten (10) percent in addition to a fi.fa. charge shall be added and thereafter. Such taxes shall be subject to the highest legal rate per annum authorized by state law from the due date until paid. On or after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment or a court of record.
Section Ch.6.140 - Special Assessments.
The city council may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening or improving any public way, streets, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers or other utility mains and appurtenances including lakes and ponds, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent thirty days after their due dates, and shall thereupon be collected as provided in Section 6.150 of this Charter.
Section Ch.6.150 - Collection of Delinquent Taxes and Fees.
The city council may provide by resolution or ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city by whatever means as are not precluded by law. This authority shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi.fas.; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed; revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees; allowing exceptions for hardship; providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions; and providing for the billing and collecting of principal, interest and costs of delinquent executions as an addition to and a part of the annual ad valorem tax bill.
Section Ch.6.160 - Transfer of Executions.
The clerk of the City of Roswell shall be authorized to transfer and assign any fi.fa. or execution issued for street, sewer, or any other assessment in the same manner, upon the same terms, and to the same effect, and thereby vest the purchaser or transferee with the same rights as in cases of sales or transfers of fi.fas., as now provided by law; and all sales of property hereafter made under execution in behalf of the city for the collection of street, sewer and other assessments, the owner or owners, as the case may be, are authorized to redeem same within the same time and in compliance with the same terms and payment of the same premium, interest and costs, as in cases of redemption of property where sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi.fa. as the same now exists or as may from time to time be provided by law.
Section Ch.6.170 - Reserved.
Section Ch.6.180 - Insurance.
The city shall maintain sufficient casualty and liability insurance coverage on all property owned and/or operated by city personnel to adequately indemnify the city on claims of loss by insured or aggrieved parties. The amounts of insurance coverage shall be set from time to time by the city council in the form of a resolution as the need arises.
Article Ch.7 - Municipal Court

Section Ch.7.10 - Creation.
There shall be a court to be known as the municipal court of the City of Roswell.
Section Ch.7.20 - Chief Judge and Associate Judges.
(1)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge, who shall be elected as provided in subsection (3) of this section, and such associate judges, part-time, or stand-by judges as may be provided for by ordinance. The compensation of the chief judge and other judges shall be fixed by resolution.
(2)
No person shall be eligible or qualified to serve as chief judge or associate judge of the municipal court unless he has attained the age of twenty-one (21) years, is a member of the State Bar of Georgia, is qualified to vote in the City of Roswell and Fulton County, and has resided in the City of Roswell at least one (1) year next preceding his election or selection.
(3)
The chief judge of the municipal court shall be elected at the same election at which members of the city council from Posts One (1), Two (2), and Three (3) are elected. The candidate for chief judge who receives a majority of the votes cast in said election shall be elected to a term of office for four (4) years and until his successor is duly elected and qualified. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast in said election, a run-off election shall be held between the two (2) candidates receiving the highest number of votes. Such a run-off shall be held as provided by Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. unless the date is postponed by court order. In the event no one qualifies as a candidate for the chief judge, the mayor and city council shall appoint a chief judge to serve until the next regular municipal election. The individual serving as judge of the municipal court at the time of adoption of this Charter, shall continue to serve until the expiration of the term of office to which he was elected and until his successor is elected and qualified.
Section Ch.7.30 - Oath.
Before entering on the duties of his office, each judge shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state that he will truly, honestly, and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. This oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the meetings of the city council.
Section Ch.7.40 - Removal.
Judges may be removed for cause by a vote of two-thirds (⅔) of the members of the city council or upon action taken by the State Judicial Qualifications Commission for:
1)
Willful misconduct in office,
2)
Willful and persistent failure to perform duties,
3)
Habitual intemperance,
4)
Conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice which brings the judicial office into disrepute.
5)
Disability seriously interfering with the performance of duties, which is, or is likely to become, of a permanent character.
Section Ch.7.50 - Vacancy.
(1)
A vacancy shall exist in the office of chief judge if the chief judge resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, neglects to convene court as provided in Section 7.80 of this Charter, is adjudged legally incompetent, is removed from office as provided in Section 7.40, or is convicted of malfeasance in office or of a felony.
(2)
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of chief judge from any cause other than the expiration of a term of office, the vacancy shall be filled as provided in this paragraph. If the vacancy occurs within twelve (12) months of the expiration of the term, a chief judge shall be appointed by the city council to serve out the unexpired term of office. If the vacancy occurs at any other time, the vacancy shall be filled by a special election called for that purpose by the city council within a period of sixty (60) days after the office becomes vacant. At said election, a chief judge shall be elected to serve the remainder of the unexpired term and until his successor is elected and qualified. It shall be the duty of the city council to publish notice of the special election in the official organ of the city once a week for a two-week period immediately preceding said special election.
Section Ch.7.60 - Stand-by Judges.
(1)
Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, if the chief judge is for any reason temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, or if during a limited period of time the workload of the court is such that a temporary additional judge is required, the chief judge may request a Superior Court judge, state court judge, a magistrate, or municipal court judge to sit and hold court during the municipal court judge's absence or during such period of time.
(2)
The city council may at any time during an absence of the chief judge of the municipal court or during a limited period of time the workload of the court is such that a temporary additional judge is required, appoint a judge pro tempore who shall serve during such absence or period of time.
Section Ch.7.70 - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof. The court shall sit at a place designated by the city council.
Section Ch.7.80 - Jurisdiction and Powers.
(1)
The municipal court shall try and shall punish violations of this Charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(2)
The municipal court shall have the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of the City of Roswell including but not limited to:
(a)
The abatement of nuisances;
(b)
The prosecution of traffic offenses as set forth in Title 40 of the O.C.G.A.;
(c)
The prosecution of offenses relating to marijuana possession as set forth in Code Section 36-32-6 of the O.C.G.A.;
(d)
The prosecution of offenses relating to operating a motor vehicle without effective insurance as set forth in Code Section 36-32-7 of the O.C.G.A.;
(e)
The prosecution of offenses relating to operating a motor vehicle without a certificate of emission inspection as set forth in Code Section 36-32-8 of the O.C.G.A.;
(f)
The prosecution of offenses relating to shoplifting as set forth in Code Section 36-32-9 of the O.C.G.A.;
(g)
The prosecution of offenses relating to alcoholic beverages and persons under twenty-one (21) years of age as set forth in Code Section 36-32-10 of the O.C.G.A.;
(h)
The same powers and authorities as magistrates in the matter of and pertaining to criminal cases of whatever nature; and
(i)
Any additional power, authority, or jurisdiction granted to municipal courts pursuant to general laws of the state.
(3)
The municipal court shall have the authority to hold courts of inquiry and to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
(4)
The municipal court shall have the authority to hear applications for and issue arrest and search warrants for violations of state law.
(5)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(6)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer and as authorized by this Charter or by general state law. All judges of the municipal court are authorized to issue search warrants and warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinances of the city.
(7)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the appropriate court for violations of state law.
(8)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever a person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, then, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at the time and an execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi at least two (2) days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that personal or real property is accepted in lieu of a cash bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the city shall have a lien against such property for the value of the bond so forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as liens for delinquent taxes are enforced.
(9)
The municipal court may fix as punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction a fine not exceeding the maximum allowed by state law or imprisonment for up to one hundred eighty (180) days, or both, or in lieu of imprisonment, it may sentence an offender, upon conviction, to community service for a period not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days. The municipal court may punish those in its presence for contempt, provided such punishment shall not exceed $200.00 or ten (10) days imprisonment, or both. In those cases where the municipal court has jurisdiction to try cases involving the violation of state law, the court may impose those penalties set forth for the violation of such law.
Section Ch.7.90 - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Fulton County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Section Ch.7.100 - Court Personnel.
The City shall be authorized to provide for such Court personnel as deemed appropriate for the effective operation of the Municipal Court of the City and the timely administration of justice.
(Ordinance No. 2013-11-13 dated November 25, 2013)
Sections Ch.7.110—Ch.7.140 - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2013-11-13, § 1, adopted November 25, 2013, repealed § Ch.7.110, which pertained to clerk of court; § Ch.7.120, which pertained to solicitor and deputy solicitors; § Ch.7.130, which pertained to marshals; and § Ch.7.140, which pertained to other court personnel. The user's attention is directed to Section Ch.7.100 for similar provisions.
Article Ch.8 - Severability

Section Ch.8.10 - Act Declared to be Severable.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Article Ch.9 - Repealer

Section Ch.9.10 - Generally.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
