Chapter 8 - BUSINESSES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Poolrooms; minors prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person who operates a billiard parlor or poolroom in the city to allow any person under 16 years of age to enter billiard parlors or poolrooms in the city, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
(Code 1955, § 7-4-4)
Secs. 8-2—8-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSES

Sec. 8-21. - Definitions.
The following words where used in this article, unless the context requires otherwise, shall be deemed to have the following meanings:
Business means any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling of any kind for gain or profit, directly or indirectly; provided that this shall not include any business, trade, profession and the like licensed by the state unless city licensing is allowed by state law, nor shall it include any business operating solely under a franchise granted by the city.
Engaged in business means any person who performs any act of selling any goods or services or solicits business or offers goods or services for sale for payment in an attempt to make a profit, including the sales or services of the character as made by a wholesaler or retailer or involved in any of the functions performed as a manufacturer, either as an owner, operator or agent in any business within the city.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-1)
Sec. 8-22. - Administration of article.
The city clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter for the application for and issuance of business licenses under this chapter. The city clerk, or an authorized representative, shall have, among others, the following duties:
(1)
To prepare and provide the necessary forms for the registration and application for a business license and for the submission of any required information as may be necessary to properly administer and enforce the provisions of this article.
(2)
To issue to each person a business license within a reasonable time after the payment of the license fee assessed and any business taxes, property or other city taxes levied in this Code; provided, however, where under other portions of this Code, permits, certifications and compliance with enumerated conditions are required for the operation of the business, the city clerk shall not issue a business license until the applicant exhibits to the city clerk the obtained permits, certification and compliance.
(Code 1955, §§ 7-1-5, 7-1-6)
Sec. 8-23. - License required.
Every business in this city or person doing business or engaged in business within the city is hereby required to have a business license from the city for the privilege of engaging in a business, profession or occupation within the corporate limits, unless city licensing is prohibited under state law or the activity is exempted by this Code.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-2)
Sec. 8-24. - Separate businesses.
Where a person conducts a business at more than one store, location or place, each store, location or place shall be considered a separate business under the terms of this article and a separate license shall be required. Should more than one business on which a business tax is levied by this Code be conducted in or in conjunction with one place or kind of business, each business shall be separately licensed under this article.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-3)
Sec. 8-25. - Casual and isolated activity excluded.
Except as otherwise provided in this title, nothing herein contained shall be interpreted so as to require any person who may engage in casual or isolated activity and commercial transactions, where they involve personal assets only and are not the principal occupation of the individual, to obtain a business license and pay a fee therefor. Garage sales, involving the exchange or sale of personal items are considered casual or isolated activities for the purpose of this article.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-8)
Sec. 8-26. - Application; fee; temporary business.
Every person required to procure a license under the provisions of this article shall submit an application for the license to the city clerk, which application shall conform to the requirements of this section in addition to any other provisions of this Code.
(1)
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by the city and submitted before November 1 of each year or within ten days of opening a new business or reopening of a business under a new ownership.
(2)
Each application shall contain the following information:
a.
Name and home address of the applicant if individual, or home office address if a corporation partnership;
b.
Place where the proposed business is to be located;
c.
Kind and class of business to be carried on;
d.
Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
e.
Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a corporation;
f.
Any information as may be required by the city clerk for the purpose of determining the amount of any business taxes to be collected under this Code; and
g.
Any additional information which the city clerk may find reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this chapter which may include a complete record of all arrests and convictions against the applicant and every partner, officer or director of the applicant for violations of any and all laws and ordinances of the city, state or federal government other than minor traffic violations.
(3)
Each application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant if an individual, or by a partner if a partnership, or by an officer if a corporation.
(4)
All information furnished or secured under the authority of this chapter shall be kept in strict confidence by the city; shall not be subject to public inspection; and shall be utilized solely by the officers of the city responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter and the city's business taxes.
(5)
False statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the license or denial of the application.
(6)
Any application, license and registration fees as fixed from time to time by the mayor and councilor business taxes required under this Code shall accompany the application.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-4)
Sec. 8-27. - Procedure for issuance.
(a)
If any provision of this Code provides for the review of an application for a license by a city officer designated therein, the city clerk shall forward a copy of the application to that officer. The officer charged with the duty of reviewing the application shall make a recommendation thereon, favorable or otherwise, and shall return the recommendation to the city clerk after receiving a copy of the application.
(b)
Upon the receipt of the recommendation of the reviewing officer as hereinabove provided, or upon the receipt of the application if no reviewing officer is designated, the city clerk shall forward the recommendation and application to the mayor and council for consideration and action at its next regularly scheduled public meeting, if approval by the mayor and council is required.
(c)
No license shall be issued to any applicant whose place of business is not in full compliance with all minimum standard building codes as provided in chapter 6 of this Code.
(d)
No license shall be issued to any applicant who has any outstanding indebtedness to the city, including, but not limited to, property taxes, business license fees, business taxes, utility bills and any other taxes or assessments.
(e)
Upon the express approval of the mayor and council, when so required, or otherwise upon a determination by the city clerk that the application is in order and all requirements have been met, the city clerk shall issue a business license to the applicant therefor, which license shall state the nature of the business authorized and bear the date of issuance and the signature of the city clerk.
(f)
If the city clerk determines that the application is not in order or any requirements for the license have not been met, then the city clerk shall deny the application and immediately provide written notice of the denial and the grounds therefor to the applicant. The applicant may appeal the denial to the mayor and council within ten days of the denial notice being issued. The mayor and council shall hold a public hearing on the appeal within ten days of the appeal being filed with the city clerk. The mayor and council within ten days of the hearing, may order, the license granted with or without conditions or may affirm the denial of the application. The decision shall be based only upon a finding by the mayor and council that the city clerk was correct or erred in the interpretation of the regulations involved or the facts of the case.
(g)
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, all license applications shall be approved or disapproved within 30 days of filing with the city clerk.
(h)
Nothing herein contained shall be construed as granting any person whose business is subject to municipal regulation any legal right to engage in that business.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-10)
Sec. 8-28. - Duration of license.
Any license referred to in this chapter shall automatically expire on December 31 of the year of its issuance.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-7)
Sec. 8-29. - Inspections.
The city council reserves the right to inspect or authorize the inspection of the premises of any license applicant or licensee for the purpose of determining the eligibility of an applicant for a license or the eligibility of a license for renewal.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-9)
Sec. 8-30. - Display of licenses and registrations.
All persons shall exhibit and display all licenses and registrations issued to them under this Code in some conspicuous place in their business establishment at which address the license or registration was issued. Any transient or nonresident person doing business within the city shall carry the license or registration either upon his person or in any vehicle or other conveyance which is used in the business and the person shall exhibit the same to any authorized enforcement officer of the city when so requested.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-11)
Sec. 8-31. - Renewal of licenses.
Each licensee shall make a written application for renewal on forms supplied by the administrator no later than November 1 of each calendar year, which application may require substantially the same information as the initial application.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-12)
Sec. 8-32. - Revocation; suspension.
The mayor and council after affording the licensee a five-day notice of the charges and opportunity to be heard with respect to any revocation proceedings, may, if it finds this chapter to have been violated by the licensee, his agent, or employee in the operation of the business, revoke any and all city licenses in their entirety, suspend the same for a specified period of time, place the licensee on probation or place other conditions thereon as the mayor and council may deem necessary after a hearing thereon.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-13)
Sec. 8-33. - Change of address.
Any person licensed hereunder moving from one location to another shall notify the city clerk of the move and the new address in writing on a form provided by the city clerk no later than the day of moving. The same business license will be valid at the new location if the new location conforms to the zoning and building regulations of the city and any other location transfer requirements of this Code.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-14)
Sec. 8-34. - Transfer of licenses.
Business licenses shall not be transferable except as provided in this section. In the event that the owner of a business holding a currently valid, paid-up business license should sell or transfer the business to another person, the purchaser of the business shall obtain, free of charge, a new license in his name for the balance of the current term of the seller's business license, upon making application to the city clerk, and the purchaser shall be punishable for violation of this chapter if the transfer of the business license provided for in this section is not made before the transferee begins to engage in the business. At the date of renewal of the seller's business license, the buyer must obtain a new annual business license and pay all license fees and business taxes required by this Code and comply with all applicable provisions of this Code and all ordinances in the same manner as if he had been the original owner of the business.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-15)
Sec. 8-35. - Issuance of replacement licenses.
In the event that the city clerk is notified that the licensee has lost his copy of the license, he shall make a new copy, upon showing by the licensee that the required fees have been paid. In addition, the licensee shall be charged a replacement fee as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council. Replacement licenses shall be signed by the city clerk and shall indicate the time and date upon which issued. The possession of a replacement license shall not be a defense to any charge of violation of this chapter except a charge made after the time of the issuance of the replacement license.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-16)
Sec. 8-36. - Special provisions for disabled veterans.
All disabled veterans desiring to enter business without paying city license fees or business taxes must present a state disability license to the city clerk whereupon a city license will be issued and marked "FREE" on the face of the same.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-17)
Sec. 8-37. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person, whether based in the city or elsewhere, to transact any business of a type for which this chapter requires a license, or to carry on any business for which a license is required however briefly or however transitorily, without first obtaining a license to do so, under the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person, whether based in the city or elsewhere, made liable for obtaining a business license under this chapter, to fail to show the license or a copy thereof to any police officer within a reasonable time after the making of a demand therefor by the police officer.
(c)
It shall be a violation of this chapter to fail to pay the license fees required by this chapter by the date on which such payments are due.
(d)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction in the recorder's court of the city, be punished as provided in section 1-6.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-18)
Sec. 8-38. - Owner and manager both punishable for violations.
In the event that a business is being conducted without a license, both the person owning the business and the person in charge of the management of the business in the city may be held liable for the violation of the provisions of this chapter, and upon conviction, either or both may be punished as provided for in section 8-37.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-19)
Sec. 8-39. - Subsequent amendments; other fees.
This chapter shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the city to assess, levy and collect any of the license fees prescribed. The payment of any license fee herein provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the assessment, levy or collection of additional license or permit fees upon the same person.
(Code 1955, § 7-1-20)
Secs. 8-40—8-66. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BUSINESS TAX

Sec. 8-67. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business means any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation, or calling of any kind for gain or profit, directly or indirectly.
Engaged in business means any person who performs any act of selling any goods or service or solicits business or offers goods or services for sale for payment in an attempt to make a profit, including the sales or services of the character as made by a wholesaler or retailer or involved in any of the functions performed as a manufacturer, profession or occupation within the city.
Manufacturer means a person who, either directly or by contracting with others for the necessary labor or mechanical services, manufactures for sale or commercial use any articles, substances or commodities; including all activities of a commercial nature wherein labor or skill is applied by hand or substance of trade or commerce is produced; and including the production or fabrication of specially or custom made articles; and including the making, fabricating, processing, refining, mixing, slaughtering, packing, aging, curing, preserving, canning and preparing and freezing of fresh foods, fruits, vegetables and meats.
Retailer means a person who sells to the consumer or any other person for any purpose other than for resale in the form of tangible personal property.
Services means the accommodating or performing of a duty or work by a person utilizing time or talents for direct or indirect remuneration.
Wholesaler means a person who sells to jobbers or to another person other than the consumer anything in the form of tangible personal property.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-21)
Sec. 8-68. - Levy of tax.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, there is hereby levied and assessed a business tax as provided in the city fee schedule on all occupations and businesses in the city. New businesses granted licenses after the beginning of the license year shall pay a prorated license fee for the year.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-22)
Sec. 8-69. - Separate businesses.
Where a person conducts a business at more than one store, location or place, each store, location or place shall be considered a separate business under the terms of this article and a separate tax shall be levied and paid; and should more than one business on which a tax is levied by this article be conducted in or in conjunction with one place or kind of business, each such business shall be subject to a separate tax under this article unless such a combination is listed in the tax schedule.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-23)
Sec. 8-70. - Registration required.
Every person engaged in any business, occupation or profession within the city upon which tax is imposed or levied by this article, shall register that business, occupation or profession with the city clerk on or before November 1 of each year, or within ten days of the opening of a new business or the sale of any established business; upon forms to be supplied by the city clerk, giving the name, address and type of business, occupation and profession and any other information as may be required by the city clerk for the purpose of determining the amount of tax to be imposed or assessed by this article. A city business license application shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-24)
Sec. 8-71. - Payment of tax.
All taxes imposed and assessed in this article shall be due and payable on or before January 1 of each year. Except in the case of any business commenced or under new ownership after that date, the taxes shall be due and payable within ten days of when the business is commenced or reopened under new ownership. Payment of the tax may be made personally to the city clerk in cash, or by company check, money order, bank draft, certified check or cashier's check made payable to the city. The tax shall be payable in a single installment.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-25)
Sec. 8-72. - Issuance of tax certificate.
Upon the payment of the taxes assessed in this article, it shall be the duty of the city clerk to issue to each person a business or occupational tax receipt and certificate. A city business license shall be sufficient for this section.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-26)
Sec. 8-73. - Certificate to be displayed.
All persons shall exhibit and display the city tax certificate or city license in some conspicuous place in their business establishment. Any transient or nonresident person doing business within the city shall carry the certificate or license either upon his person or on any vehicle or other conveyance which is used in the business, and the person shall exhibit the same to any authorized enforcement officer of the city when requested to do so.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-27)
Sec. 8-74. - Change of address.
Any person moving a non-transient business from one location to another shall notify the city clerk of the move and the new address in writing, no later than ten days after moving. The same tax certificate shall be valid at the new location.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-28)
Sec. 8-75. - Change of ownership; transfers.
No tax certificate may be transferred from one person to another. Additions to or deletions from the ownership of a business, which do not affect the liability and the principal ownership of a business for which the certificate is issued, may be made without canceling the old business or occupational tax certificate and applying for a new certificate. Whenever any person shall lease, operate or control the business franchise or property of other persons, they shall obtain a separate business tax certificate for each such business; provided no business shall pay the tax more than once under such an arrangement.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-29)
Sec. 8-76. - Enforcement.
The city clerk shall issue executions for the collection of all outstanding and unpaid taxes imposed and assessed by this article. The unpaid taxes and executions shall be collected in the manner provided by law for the collection of other taxes due the city.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-30)
Sec. 8-77. - Penalties.
Any person failing to register on or before November 1 of each year or, in the case of a new business or new owner, within ten days of commencing business, or failing to pay the tax due under the terms of this article by the due date, shall be subject to a penalty of ten percent of the business or occupational tax when due per month for each month or fractional part thereof for which the tax is due or unpaid.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-31)
Sec. 8-78. - Criminal penalties; license revoked.
Any person including the officers, agents or employees of same, violating the provisions of this article, upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section 1-6. Each day in violation hereof shall be a separate offense hereunder. Any person so convicted shall be subject to the revocation of any city business license.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-32)
Secs. 8-79—8-99. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PEDDLING, SOLICITING AND CANVASSING

Sec. 8-100. - Registration required.
Any person peddling, soliciting or canvassing within the city shall be required to register and obtain an identification card as provided by this chapter.
(Code 1955, § 7-2-1)
Sec. 8-101. - Registration; fee; application for identification card.
Any person desiring to peddle, solicit or canvass within the city shall pay to the city clerk or his designated representative a registration fee as provided in the city fee schedule and shall make application with the chief of police for an identification card which shall show payment of the registration fee and the days that the registrant has registered to peddle, solicit or canvass within the city.
(Code 1955, § 7-2-2)
Sec. 8-102. - Exhibition of registration card.
Each registrant shall at all times while in the city have upon his person the registration card and shall exhibit the same when requested to do so by any law enforcement officer or by any municipal authority and by any person being solicited. Possession of this registration card shall not in any way represent an endorsement or approval of any products or project by the city.
(Code 1955, § 7-2-3)
Sec. 8-103. - Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person:
(1)
To peddle, canvass or solicit after sundown.
(2)
To peddle within the city.
(3)
To peddle, canvass or solicit without having registered with the city clerk in accordance with this chapter or to peddle, solicit or canvass without having on his person and in his possession an identification card issued in accordance with this chapter.
(Code 1955, § 7-2-4)
Secs. 8-104—8-134. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 8-135. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means the product of distillation of any liquid, whether rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and shall include synthetic ethyl alcohol.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Retailer or retail dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation" with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-1)
Sec. 8-136. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any alcoholic beverages within the city limits without first obtaining a license from the mayor and council. No license for consumption on the premises shall be issued to any person who does not possess a retail package license.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-2; Ord. of 1-19-1967)
Sec. 8-137. - Qualifications of applicant.
(a)
Any applicant for an alcoholic beverage license must show, to the satisfaction of the mayor and council, financial responsibility. Financial statements must be submitted with each completed application as prescribed by the governing authority. Forms for financial statements shall be furnished by the council along with or included in the application forms for a license.
(b)
Any applicant for an alcoholic beverage license must be of good character; and all managers, clerks or other employees shall be of like character. Corporation applicants shall be of good business reputation.
(c)
No license shall be granted to an applicant who has been convicted under any federal, state, or local law for a criminal offense involving moral turpitude, or who has been convicted under any federal, state, or local law of any criminal offense involving alcoholic beverages, gambling, or tax law violations, if such conviction tends to indicate that the applicant would not maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with federal, state, or city laws.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-3)
Sec. 8-138. - Application required; investigation and report; action by mayor and council.
(a)
Persons desiring to sell alcoholic beverages shall file an application with the city clerk, who shall refer the same to the chief of police for investigation. The chief of police shall investigate the:
(1)
Moral fitness and reputation of the applicant;
(2)
His reputation as a peaceful citizen or law violator;
(3)
The general character and reputation of his place of business; and
(4)
Any other facts that the mayor and council should know in considering the granting of a permit and license to the applicant.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to report his findings to the mayor and council at the next meeting or as soon thereafter as possible, which body shall either grant or refuse the permit or license.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-4)
Sec. 8-139. - License issuance; terms.
(a)
All licenses shall be issued by the city clerk in the name of the person to whom it is issued. No license shall be transferred or transferable, except by prior permission of the city.
(b)
All licenses shall be issued for each calendar year beginning on January 1, and shall be good until December 31 of the year in which issued.
(c)
All places of business issued a license to sell alcoholic beverages shall, at the time the license is issued, agree to abide by the state laws regulating the sale thereof and any ordinances passed by the city in reference thereto.
(d)
All licenses shall be displayed in a prominent place in each place of business.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-5; Ord. of 11-23-1955)
Sec. 8-140. - License fees.
(a)
Retail license fees shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
(b)
The license fee shall accompany the license application and shall either be in cash or certified funds.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-6; Ord. of 11-23-1955; Ord. of 1-19-1967)
Sec. 8-141. - Conditions of operation.
Sales of alcoholic beverages shall be lawful within the city limits under the following conditions:
(1)
The seller must hold a license issued in accordance with this chapter.
(2)
No place of business licensed for the sale of malt beverages or wine shall be located within 100 yards of a church or school. No place of business licensed for the sale of distilled spirits shall be located within 200 yards of a church or school.
(3)
No sales shall be made by any person outside of the place of business of the licensee.
(4)
All such beverages sold or offered for sale shall be conspicuously displayed in the place of business, and shall not be hidden or concealed in any manner by blinds, shades, curtains, screens or partitions.
(5)
The city police shall have full authority and privilege of making inspections at any time to see that the provisions of this article are not violated.
(6)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold to any person under the age at which such beverages may be legally purchased in the state.
(7)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold on Sunday. Election day sales are specifically permitted as authorized by state law.
(8)
No licensee shall employ a minor as a clerk or in any other capacity to sell alcoholic beverages; and every licensee shall file with his application the name and ages of every person employed by him in the business. Changes in employees after a license has been granted shall be immediately reported to the city clerk.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-7)
Sec. 8-142. - Wholesaling to unlicensed retailers.
It shall be unlawful for any wholesale dealer in alcoholic beverages to sell, dispense or deliver any such beverages to any person who is not duly authorized and licensed to sell alcoholic beverages at retail within the city.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-8)
Sec. 8-143. - Suspension; revocation.
(a)
Any license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city to any licensee may be suspended or revoked for due cause, and after a hearing held for the purpose of considering any such suspension or revocation. At least five days' prior written notice of a time, place and purpose of such hearing, and a statement of the charge or charges upon which such hearing shall be held shall be given to the holder of such license which is sought to be suspended or revoked.
(b)
Due cause for the suspension or revocation of any license shall consist of a violation of any laws or ordinances regulating such business, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such businesses, or for the violation of any state, federal, municipal or city ordinance that would prevent one from obtaining a license, or for the violation of any provision of this chapter.
(c)
When a license is suspended or revoked, the city shall not be required to refund any portion of the license fee to the holder of such suspended or revoked license. When a license is revoked, the licensee may not reapply for a license hereunder for a period of three years from such revocation.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-9)
Sec. 8-144. - Sales under suspended license.
No person whose license has been suspended or revoked pursuant to any provisions hereof shall sell any beverages covered by the suspended or revoked license during the period of such suspension or after such revocation.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-10)
Sec. 8-145. - Violations, penalties.
Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-6.
(Code 1955, § 7-3-11)
Secs. 8-146—8-173. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EXCISE TAX

Sec. 8-174. - Taxes assessed.
In addition to the license fees required in this chapter and in addition to the excise taxes levied by the state, all alcoholic beverage licensees shall pay to the city the taxes imposed in this division.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-41)
Sec. 8-175. - Malt beverages.
There is hereby imposed an excise tax on the sale of malt beverages as follows:
(1)
Malt beverages served as tap or draught beer from a barrel or bulk container shall pay a tax as provided in the city fee schedule per container of not more than 15½ gallons and a proportionate tax at the same rate on any smaller containers.
(2)
Malt beverages sold in cans or bottles shall bear a tax as provided in the city fee schedule per 12 ounces proportionate to the size of the container.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-42)
Sec. 8-176. - Wine.
There is hereby imposed an excise tax on the sale of wine by the package, which tax shall be as provided in the city fee schedule per liter and a proportionate tax upon any fractional part thereof.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-43)
Sec. 8-177. - Distilled spirits; retail package.
There is hereby imposed an excise tax on the sale of distilled spirits by the package, excluding the sales of fermented beverages, which tax per liter shall be as provided in the city fee schedule and a proportionate tax upon any fractional part thereof.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-414)
Sec. 8-178. - Payment of tax.
The excise taxes provided in this division shall be imposed upon and shall be paid by the licensed wholesale dealer. The taxes shall be paid on or before the tenth day of the month following the calendar month in which the alcoholic beverages are sold by the wholesale dealer. Each licensee responsible for the payment of excise tax shall file a report with the city itemizing for the preceding calendar month all information pertaining to sales during the month within the city.
(Code 1955, § 2-5-45)
