Chapter 31 - COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-62-1 et seq.; community improvement districts, Ga. Const. art. IX, § VII, ¶ I et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 31-1—31-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - JOINT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 31-31. - Purpose; creation.
(a)
It is hereby resolved by the same, that there is hereby determined and declared to be a present and future need for a joint development authority (as more fully described and defined in the development authorities law) to function within the county and the city.
(b)
There shall be activated within the county and the city the public body corporate and politic known as the "Joint Development Authority of Winder-Barrow County" which was created upon the adoption and approval of the development authorities law.
(Res. of 2-27-2001)
Sec. 31-32. - Membership.
(a)
The board of directors of the joint development authority of the county shall consist of seven members, four of which members shall be appointed by the board of commissioners (the "county appointees") and three of which members shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the city.
(b)
The four county appointees to the board of directors of the joint development authority of the county shall include:
(1)
The chairman of the board of commissioners of the county;
(2)
The chairman of the board of directors of the Winder-Barrow Chamber of Commerce; and
(3)
Two persons each of whom is a taxpayer and resident of the county.
(Res. of 2-27-2001)
Sec. 31-33. - Appointment.
There are hereby appointed as the county appointees to the first board of directors of the joint development authority of Winder-Barrow County the following named four persons for the terms indicated after their respective names:
EXPAND
Name Term
Walter E. Elder 4 years
Charles Perry 4 years
Allyson Summerour 2 years
Jerry Maynard 2 years
  The term of any successor county appointee shall be four years; notwithstanding the foregoing, the position originally held by Charles Perry shall always be held by the then-current chairman of the board of directors of the Winder-Barrow Chamber of Commerce.
(Res. of 2-27-2001)
Sec. 31-34. - Powers and duties.
The board of directors hereinbefore appointed shall organize itself, carry out its duties and responsibilities and exercise its powers and prerogatives in accordance with the terms and provisions of the development authorities law as it now exists and as it might hereafter be amended or modified.
(Res. of 2-27-2001)
Sec. 31-35. - Audit and review.
All actions and activities of the joint development authority of the county shall be subject to the same audit and review procedures applicable to the county board of commissioners.
(Res. of 2-27-2001)
Sec. 31-36. - Indebtedness and obligations.
Neither bonds or other obligations of the authority nor indebtedness incurred by the joint development authority shall constitute an indebtedness or obligation of the county or the city, nor shall any act of the joint development authority in any manner constitute or result in the creation of an indebtedness of the county or the city, all as is more particularly set forth at O.C.G.A. § 36-62-10.
(Res. of 2-27-2001)
