Chapter 86 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance consistent with this Code prescribing or providing traffic regulations at specific places, such as through streets, stop intersections, yield intersections, one-way travel, no left turns, no right turns, traffic control by electrical devices, truck routes, loading zones, no parking zones and limited parking zones saved from repeal, § 1-10(14); unauthorized vehicles prohibited in certain areas for airport safety, § 18-34; occupation tax levied, § 26-35; depository financial institutions license tax, §§ 26-111 et seq.; courts, ch. 34; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 58; throwing litter from vehicle, § 78-39; allowing load to drop or leak from vehicle, § 78-40; refuse collection and transport of solid waste, § 78-41; scrap tires, §§ 78-71 et seq.; development standards for traffic and parking requirements, app. A, art. V; general requirements for traffic signals and signs, app. B, § 8.24.
State Law reference— Authority of county to regulate traffic in unincorporated areas, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; Uniform Rules of the Road, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1 et seq.; power of local authorities generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371; motor vehicles and traffic generally, O.C.G.A. tit. 40.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 86-1. - Uniform Rules of the Road adopted.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-6-370, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1—40-6-395, known as the Uniform Rules of the Road, are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the county with like effect as if recited in this chapter.
(Code 1993, § 15-28(a))
State Law reference— Adoption of Uniform Rules of the Road by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372.
Sec. 86-2. - Parental responsibility for violations by minors.
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 16 years to permit, whether knowingly or through ineffective control or supervision, such minor to violate any provision of this Code or state law regarding the operation of vehicles.
Sec. 86-3. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the roads of the county may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters and at other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the sheriff may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts and any person who, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, shall violate them shall be liable therefor as for other violations of this Code.
Secs. 86-4—86-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SPEED[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Alteration of maximum speed limits by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-183.

Sec. 86-31. - General speed limit.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any street or portion of a street in the county at a rate of speed greater than 30 miles per hour unless another speed limit is posted or otherwise designated for such street or portion of a street.
Sec. 86-32. - Alteration of maximum speed limits on specific streets.
The board of commissioners may alter the maximum speed limits established by section 86-31 on any street or portion thereof within the county in accordance with the provisions of state law. Whenever signs are posted giving notice of the maximum legal speed limit so established for a particular street or portion thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any vehicle at a rate of speed in excess of such limit.
Sec. 86-33. - Speed detection devices.
(a)
The county is hereby authorized to use speed detection devices for the purpose of traffic control on the roads and streets in the county.
(b)
Such speed detection devices shall be used only for the purpose of public safety and traffic control and shall not be used for the purpose of raising revenue.
Secs. 86-34—86-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OPERATION OF VEHICLES

Sec. 86-61. - Designation of traffic zones and installation of traffic control devices.
(a)
Upon approval of the board of commissioners, the sheriff is authorized to designate and maintain by appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices:
(1)
Crosswalks at intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians.
(3)
Traffic lanes.
(4)
Speed, parking, truck or other traffic control zones.
(5)
Stop, yield, one-way and other directional devices.
(6)
Any other sign, marking, device or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the roads and streets of the county.
(b)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings shall conform to specifications in the "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices" adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required under this chapter for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the county. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Code shall be official traffic control devices of the county.
(c)
No person shall be charged with violating a traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device unless appropriate signs, markings or devices are in fact operating or in existence on the streets involved.
(d)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device established under this section shall be a violation of this Code.
Sec. 86-62. - Restrictions on use of designated roadways.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Designated roadway shall mean those roads or portions of roads within the county road system lying outside the corporate limits of a municipality designated by the board of commissioners by ordinance as limited use in accordance with this section.
Large truck shall mean any motor vehicle having a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) or a gross combination weight rating (GCWR) in excess of 36,000 pounds, except motor vehicles designed and licensed to carry passengers for hire or government-owned vehicles. GVWR is the total weight a vehicle is rated to carry by the manufacturer, including its own weight and the weight of its load. GCWR is determined by adding the GVWR of the vehicle and the GVWR of any towed unit(s). In the absence of a manufacturer-assigned GVWR for a towed unit(s), the GVWR shall be the actual weight of the towed unit including any load carried thereon.
Person means and shall extend and be applied to natural persons, as well as to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, corporations and bodies politic, or any combination thereof, including but not limited to any owners, operators, lessees, or drivers of a large truck that is operated in violation of this section.
Residential subdivision shall mean any development with public roads designed primarily for residential and accessory traffic and which developments are in areas zoned as residential districts under the Barrow County Unified Development Code.
(b)
Large trucks prohibited on designated roadways. No person shall operate a large truck within the limitation area of a designated roadway listed in Table 3.1. All such roadways shall be posted with appropriate signage at each end of said limitation area. At the board of commissioners' discretion, such signs may also be posted at the intersection of other roadways within such limitation areas.
TABLE 3.1: DESIGNATED ROADWAYS WITH LIMITED LARGE TRUCK ACCESS
EXPAND
Road Name Limitation Area
Anita Drive from SR 211 north to Cedar Creek Drive
Argonne Road from SR 53 south to SR 316
Bee Maxey Road from Carl-Cedar Hill Road to Dee Kennedy Road
Bee Robinson Road from County Line-Auburn Road to Carl-Cedar Hill Road
Bert Day Road from Atlanta Hwy to SR 53 south
Bethel Bowers Road from SR 81 to Tanners Bridge Road
Blackstock Road from Harmony Grove Church Road to Cronic Town Road
Booth Road from SR 82 to Arnold Road
Boss Hardy Road from County Line-Auburn Road to Old Hog Mountain Road
Bowman Mill Road from Atlanta Hwy to SR 211 east
Brannon Holder Road from County Line-Auburn Road to Murphy Road
Briscoe Mill Road from Carl-Bethlehem Road to J.B. Owens Road
Carl-Cedar Hill Road from Bankhead Highway to Pearl Pentecost Road
Cash Road from Atlanta Hwy to Pleasant Hill Church Road
Cedar Creek Drive from Cedar Creek Road to dead end
Clarence Edwards Road from Carl-Bethlehem Road to Harvey Lokey Road
Covered Bridge Road from SR 211 north to Jackson County Line at Mulberry River
Cronic Town Road from Mount Moriah Road to Blackstock Road
Dee Kennedy Road from SR 211 north to Gwinnett County Line
Dooley Town Road from SR 211 to Statham City Limits
Ernest Elder Road from Bowman Mill Road to Giles Road
Flanigan Mill Road from Dee Kennedy Road to Boss Hardy Road
Giles Road from Atlanta Hwy to SR 82
Hardigree Road from Atlanta Hwy (easternmost intersection) to Jackson Trail Road.
Harmony Grove Church Road from Mount Moriah Road to Dee Kennedy Road
Hoyt King Road from SR 81 to Haymon Morris Road
Jackson Trail Road from Atlanta Highway to Hardigree Road
Jackson Trail Road from SR 53 to Smith Mill Road
Jones Road from SR 82 to SR 330
Kennedy Sells Road from Fred Kilcrease Road to Carl-Bethlehem Road
Kilcrease Road from University Drive to SR 8 in Auburn
Kilcrease Road from Barrow Industrial Parkway to Gwinnett County Line
Laurie Williamson Road from Bowman Mill Road to Pleasant Hill Church road
McElhannon Road from SR 11 to Walton County Line
Midland Avenue from Atlanta Highway to Winder City Limits
Mount Moriah Road from Auburn City Limits to Gwinnett County Line
Murphy Road from Old Thompson Mill Road to County Line-Auburn Road
Ode Peppers Road from SR 316 to Smith Mill Road
Old Hog Mountain Road from SR 211 north to SR 124
Patrick Mill Road from Barrow Industrial Parkway to Gwinnett County Line
Peppers Road from Kilcrease Road to Kennedy Sells Road
Picklesimon Road from Atlanta Hwy to SR 82
Pierce Road from Carl-Cedar Hill Road to 6,060 feet south of Carl-Cedar Hill Road
Pleasant Hill Church Road from Atlanta Hwy to SR 11 north
Rockwell Church Road from SR 211 north to SR 11 north
Russell Cemetery Road from SR 8 to Corinth Church Road
Smith Cemetery Road from SR 53 south to SR 316
Tanners Bridge Circle from Tanners Bridge Road to Tanners Bridge Road
Than Skinner Road from Rockwell Church Road to Mulberry Road
Thurmond Road from SR 330 to Jefferson Road
Union Church Road from SR 11 to Rockwell Church Road
Union Grove Church Road from Mount Moriah Road to Gwinnett County Line
Wages Road from Union Grove Church Road to Gwinnett County Line
Wall Road from SR 316 to Atlanta Hwy
Williams Road from Carl-Bethlehem Road to Matthews School Road
Wright Street from Picklesimon Road to Winder City Limits
  (1)
Exceptions. The prohibition in subsection (b) shall not apply to any person who operates a large truck within a limitation area of any designated roadway for the following purposes:
a.
Engaging in a scheduled pick up or delivery at a location within a limitation area;
b.
Traveling to or from its terminal facility, when such facility is located in a limitation area;
c.
Traveling to or from a repair facility, when such facility is located in a limitation area; or
d.
Traveling to or from his or her residence, when such residence is located in a limitation area, and when the county has issued a business license to operate from that residence address.
(c)
Large trucks restricted in residential subdivisions. No person shall enter, travel or park a large truck on a street in a residential subdivision in Barrow County unless such person is engaging in a scheduled pick up or delivery within such residential subdivision, and only for so long as is reasonably necessary to complete such scheduled pick up or delivery.
(d)
No overnight stays. No person shall park a large truck on any right-of-way in Barrow County for the purpose of an overnight stay by the driver or operator.
(e)
Limited load roadways, bridges and culverts. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle, including large trucks, on any roadway, bridge or culvert in Barrow County where the weight of such vehicle, with or without loads, is in excess of the weight as limited by state law or any ordinance or resolution of Barrow County and where signs indicating such limitations are posted.
(f)
Violations. Any person violating this section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or 60 days imprisonment. Each day that the offense continues shall constitute a separate violation. The imposition of any fine against a person for any violation of this section shall not preclude a civil action against such person to recover for any damages caused by any such person for any such violation of this section, nor shall this section constitute a waiver of any rights Barrow County may have to pursue a civil action against such person or to otherwise seek restitution, and all such rights are expressly reserved.
(Ord. of 11-13-2018, § 1; Ord. of 12-10-2019, § 1)
Secs. 86-63—86-90. - Reserved.
