ARTICLE VI. - R-2, ONE-, TWO-FAMILY AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 6.01. - Statement of purpose.
The intent of the R-2 Residential District is to provide for medium to high density residential development; to provide for variety in the City's housing stock, to encourage neighborhood maintenance and preservation by allowing the conversion of large and older single-family homes to two-family and apartment use; and to provide suitable areas for new multi-family development.
Sec. 6.02. - Permitted uses.
a.
Any use permitted in the R-1 and residential districts.
b.
Two-family (Duplex) residential dwellings.
c.
Multi-family (apartments and condominiums)*
d.
Townhouses (See Article VIII).
e.
Manufactured homes (See Article XVI).
Sec. 6.03. - Conditional uses.
a.
Any use listed under Section 5.03 of the R-1 zoning district.
b.
Nursing homes.
c.
Boarding homes.
d.
Group homes.
e.
Professional offices.
f.
Public building, structures and other public land uses.
g.
Group Day Care Homes (group day care homes as limited and defined in Article II) provided that no play equipment be located in the front yard and that signage be compatible to the neighborhood and not larger than regulated for home occupations. All state licensing requirements and regulations shall also apply.
h.
Group Personal Care Homes—as limited and defined in Article II.
i.
Manufactured home and travel trailer parks (See Article XVI).
j.
Halfway homes—as limited and defined in Article II.
k.
Convalescent homes—as limited and defined in Article II.
l.
Other uses similar to the above and compatible with the particular neighborhood and environment as approved by the Mayor and City Council.
Sec. 6.04. - Area and placement requirements.
(In accordance with the Schedule of Regulations, Article XX.)
*For development of apartment units of only one (1) apartment building on a given site. The R-PUD development standards Article VIII, will apply to apartments of more than one (1) building on a given parcel or lot.
