ARTICLE XV. - I, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 15.01. - Statement of purpose.
The intent of the industrial district is to provide suitable areas for wholesaling, warehousing, storage, manufacturing, processing, repair services and sale lots in addition to other retail and service establishments; to expand or extend districts only where there is adequate and direct access to appropriate transportation facilities and where there is minimum conflict with residential districts.
Sec. 15.02. - Permitted uses*.
a.
Any use permitted in the commercial zone districts, except 10 ft. dwellings.
b.
Manufacturing.
c.
Warehousing, wholesaling, shipping and receiving.
d.
Agriculture.
*Within any I, Industrial Zoning District, the following special regulations will apply to all permitted uses:
1.
All open portions of any lot shall be suitable graded and, except when paved or similarly improved, they shall as a minimum, be seeded and maintained in grass. Preferably, such open spaces may be further landscaped with trees, shrubs and ground cover.
2.
All service drives and access roads and parking areas shall be paved.
3.
All storage operations shall be fully enclosed.
4.
Provisions shall be made for the adequate lighting of all parking areas and service drives.
5.
Satisfactory provisions shall be made for storm drainage, sanitary sewerage and water supply. As much as possible, all power and telephone lines shall be provided for by easements along rear and side lot lines.
Sec. 15.03. - Conditional uses.
a.
Petroleum bulk plaint.
b.
Junkyards, automobile salvage yards or scrap metal processors. (Site plan approval, including protective screenings, see Section 3.15.)
c.
Asphalt plants.
d.
Cement, lime gypsum, or plaster of paris manufacturing.
e.
Fat rendering and fertilizer manufacturing.
f.
Paper and pulp manufacturing.
g.
Corrosive acid and alkali manufacturing, explosives.
h.
Public buildings, structures or other public land uses.
i.
Tire reclamation facilities.
j.
Cemeteries, provided that a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application.
k.
Chemical plans.
l.
Churches. (See Section 5.03a.)
m.
Solid waste collection, treatment and disposal facilities.
n.
Solid waste collection, treatment and disposal facilities.
o.
Extraction, or removal of sand, gravel, top soil or other natural resources.
p.
Solid waste recycling operations.
q.
Grain elevators.
r.
Hazardous waste facilities.
s.
Lumber yards, planning and sawmills.
t.
Petroleum refining and storage.
u.
Septic tank cleaning services.
v.
Commercial incinerators.
w.
Rifle, pistol and skeet ranges.
x.
All radio, cellular phone or similar transmission/receiving antennas and/or towers.
y.
Other uses similar to the above and compatible with the particular neighborhood and environment as approved by the Mayor and City Council.
Sec. 15.04. - Area and placement requirements.
In accordance with the Schedule of Regulations, Article XX.
