ARTICLE II. - SEWER USE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 12-20. - Definitions.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used in this article shall be as follows:
B.O.D. (denoting biochemical oxygen demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty (20) degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system carrying sewage which receives discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building's sewer.
Building sewer (sometimes called house lateral): The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Commercial-industrial wastes: Any wastes not being domestic wastes, but not limited to the wastes from commercial, laboratory and industrial processes, wastes from domestic operations or certain trade operations such as sand, grit, waste petroleum products from automotive service stations and the like, animal wastes, straw and related items from dairy or other farming operations.
Domestic wastes: Water-borne human or animal excreta or body wastes and normal culinary, laundry, and washing wastes originating in residences.
Garbage: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from handling, storage and sale of produce.
Natural outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
Owner: Any person in title to or having any interest in real property in any of the sanitary sewer districts and their extensions and/or any drainage district now existing or subsequently created by the city.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter solution.
Properly shredded garbage: The waste from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-quarter inch in any dimension.
Public sewer: A sewer which is controlled by the city.
Sanitary sewer: A pipe or conduit which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
Sewage: The water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, institutions, industrial establishments, and other places.
Sewage treatment plant: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
Sewage works: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
Sewer district: Any sanitary sewer system and extensions and/or any drainage system and extensions, now existing or subsequently created by the city.
Storm sewer or storm drain: A sewer which carries storm and surface water drainage, but excludes sewage, commercial-industrial and domestic wastes.
Superintendent: The sewer superintendent.
Suspended solids: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by laboratory filterings.
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs continuously or intermittently.
(Code 1974, § 21-102)
Cross reference— Additional definitions, § 12-45.
Sec. 12-21. - Purpose.
It is the purpose of this article to protect the sewage collection and treatment facilities, to prevent danger to life and damage to property, to promote the health, safety and general welfare, to prohibit the introduction of storm, surface or sub-surface waters into the sanitary sewers, to provide for the fair distribution of treatment costs, and to form a basis and policy for controlling of wastes accepted into the sewage systems of the city.
(Code 1974, § 21-101)
Sec. 12-22. - Required use of public sewers.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited, in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
(c)
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(d)
The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required at such owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article within sixty (60) days after date of official notice to do so, provided that such public sewer is within one hundred (100) feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(e)
Any industry or establishment introducing industrial wastes to the sanitary sewer system shall agree to comply with the United States Environmental Protection Agency's pretreatment regulations (40 CFR Part 128).
(Code 1974, § 21-103)
Sec. 12-23. - Private sewage disposal.
(a)
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, under the provisions of section 12-22, or where industrial or commercial wastes are excluded, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this article.
(b)
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the city. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee as prescribed by the council from time to time shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(c)
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is complete to the satisfaction of the superintendent. The superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspections shall be made within twenty-four (24) hours of the receipt of notice by the sewer commission.
(d)
The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all requirements of the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division (EPD), and obtain the approval of the state EPD prior to a permit being issued. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing sub-surface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than twenty-thousand (20,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(e)
Each developer or subdivider shall be required to install or have installed, at such person's expense and throughout the entire development or subdivision, sanitary sewer lines, manholes and building sewers. All such facilities shall comply with all provisions of this article and, with the exception of the building sewer, shall become the property of the city when such facilities are connected to the public sewer.
(f)
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection (d) of this section, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(g)
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewerage disposal facilities at all times, at no expense to the city.
(h)
No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by local, state or federal agencies having authority to impose such requirements.
(i)
When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to such sewer within sixty (60) days and the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run dirt or gravel.
(Code 1974, § 21-104)
Sec. 12-24. - Building sewers and connections and grant of permit for sewer use.
(a)
The sewer systems of the city, as constructed, or as hereafter added to or changed, shall be under the charge and control of the city under whose supervision they shall be used by property owners and no person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof, except under the inspection and direction of the city and after a written permit shall have been issued by the city before such uncovering, connection, use alteration, or disturbance is to take place. The city shall adopt rules and regulations to govern the maintenance and use of the sewer systems and shall therein fix the amount of fees that shall be chargeable to persons or property owners who may wish to enter to use the sewer systems, which fee shall be sufficient in amount to pay for the cost of inspection of such entry or entries.
(b)
Permits granted under this article shall be for specific wastes and such permits shall be granted only after the submission and approval of plans as set forth hereinafter. Subsequent wastes of different quantity, quality or characteristics shall be covered by separate permits.
(c)
There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: (1) for residential and commercial service, and (2) for service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or the owner's agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee is an amount fixed by the council, and shall be paid at the time the application is filed.
(d)
All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(e)
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one (1) building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
(Code 1974, § 21-105)
Sec. 12-25. - Sewer user charge for contribution of domestic wastes only.
(a)
Residential owners connected to the public sewer system shall pay per month the charges for sewer service as provided in section 12-7.
(b)
Each individual unit of a multiple-family residence shall be considered as a single residence unless the entire multiple-family residence is considered a commercial user. This class user includes, but is not limited to, housing projects, mobile trailer parks, apartments, and small commercial user.
(c)
Large commercial and industrial users contributing domestic waste only shall pay a minimum monthly charge in accordance with the following formula:
EXPAND
A = Number of employees on payroll
B = 33 gallons of sewage per day per employee
C = Number of working days per month
Q = Quantity of sewage per month
  Q = A × B × C
Monthly user rate is the same as the water rate based on the quantity of sewage (Q).
(d)
User charges in this section are subject to the surcharge provisions of section 12-39, where applicable.
(Code 1974, § 21-107)
Sec. 12-26. - Repair and maintenance work.
(a)
Any repair or maintenance work in connection with sewer pipes and drains connected directly or indirectly to any sanitary or storm sewer system or storm drain shall be performed in accordance with specifications approved by and under the supervision and inspection of the city.
(b)
For work performed on sewers, pipes, laterals, or drains which are not a part of a sanitary sewer or storm sewer system at the direction or under the supervision of the city for the particular or special benefit of any individual parcel or portion of real property, a charge is hereby established in an amount equal to the actual cost thereof to the city.
(c)
The city shall annually assess against the individual parcel of land the amount of any such charges remaining unpaid on October first and such charges shall be added to the tax roll and collected in the same manner and at the same time as the other taxes are assessed, levied and collected pursuant to statute.
(Code 1974, § 21-109)
Sec. 12-27. - Power and authority of inspectors.
(a)
The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing or proper activities in accordance with the terms of this article or any regulations promulgated hereunder. The powers and authority herein granted shall be in addition to powers of inspection otherwise granted by law to city.
(b)
The city or its authorized representatives shall be permitted access to information which has a direct bearing on the volume, type and quantity of pollutants and source of discharge to the public sewers or waterways or sewer works.
(Code 1974, § 21-110)
Sec. 12-28. - Enforcement, remedies and penalties.
(a)
Any permit issued pursuant to this article shall be subject to cancellation after a hearing in the event of a finding by the city at such hearing that the user or permittee of the sewerage system has violated any of the provisions of this article. Such hearing shall take place on ten (10) days' written notice to the permittee or user. Upon any cancellation provided for in this section or otherwise in this article, the city may terminate the use of the sewer by severing the connection to the sewage works.
(b)
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be responsible in money damages for any damage to the sewer system or expense caused the city by such violation. This money may be collected by civil action in the superior court of the state. Obedience to this article may also be enforced by injunction.
(c)
Any person violating any provisions of this article and interfering with, entering or using such sewer systems without obtaining permission hereunder, shall be guilty of an offense and subject to punishment as provided in section 1-8, and in addition when a violation of this article or any of the provisions thereof is continuous, each twenty-four (24) hours thereof shall constitute a separate, distinct and additional violation.
(Code 1974, § 21-111)
Sec. 12-29. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS FOR DISCHARGE OF NONDOMESTIC WASTES

Sec. 12-30. - Permission to discharge surface, etc., waters to sanitary sewer.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, impounded water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer, without permission of the city.
(Code 1974, § 21-106(1))
Sec. 12-31. - Discharge of unpolluted drainage to storm sewer or natural outlet; prohibited discharges to public sewer.
(a)
Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or other unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of the city to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(b)
Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
(1)
Any liquid or vapor having a temperature lower than thirty-two (32) degrees Fahrenheit or higher than one hundred fifty (150) degrees Fahrenheit,
(2)
Waters or wastes, which may contain more than one hundred (100) milligrams per liter, by weight, of fats, oils, or grease,
(3)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas,
(4)
Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, grit, straw, animal wastes, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, manure, or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction of the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewage works in the opinion of the city,
(5)
Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than six (6.0) or higher than nine (9.0), or having any other hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works, in the opinion of the city,
(6)
Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in sufficient quantity to damage or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant in the opinion of the city,
(7)
Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials at the sewage treatment plant,
(8)
Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance,
(9)
Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, pickling wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not,
(10)
Any waters or wastes containing excessive concentrations of specific ions as follows:
EXPAND
Element Maximum
Limit 2 Element Maximum Limit 2
Aluminum 5.0   Iron 5.0
Arsenic 0.10  Lead 5.0
Beryllium 0.10  Lithium 2.5
Boron 0.75  Manganese 0.20
Cadmium 0.010 Mercury _____ 1
Chromium 0.10  Molybdenum 0.010
Cobalt 0.050 Nickel 0.20
Copper 0.20  Selenium 0.020
Fluoride 1.0   Silver _____ 1
Zinc 2.0
  Notes:
1.
No data are available for mercury, silver, tin, titanium, or tungsten.
2.
The maximum limits are as recommended by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency and are subject to change from time to time by the U. S. EPA and/or the state department of natural resources.
(Code 1974, § 21-106(2), (3))
Cross reference— Discharge of fluid onto street, § 16-7.
Sec. 12-32. - Grease, oil and sand interceptors—General.
(a)
All retail, governmental, institutional, and other preparers of food for consumption by the public are required to have grease, oil, and sand interceptors on the premises where such food is prepared for the proper handling of waste containing grease and excessive amounts of any flammable wastes, sand, grit, or other harmful ingredients. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the city, shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with an easily removable cover which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and watertight.
(b)
When installed, the interceptors shall be regularly inspected and cleaned. There shall be a log or schedule kept on each interceptor showing the date the interceptor was cleaned or inspected, by which company or firm the cleaning or inspection was carried out, and the name of the employee actually inspecting or cleaning the interceptor. This schedule or log shall be kept on the premises where the interceptor is installed and shall be made available to city employees for inspection.
(Code 1974, § 21-106(4); Ord. of 2-11-93(4))
Sec. 12-33. - Same—Maintenance.
Where installed, all grease, oil, sand and grit interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at the owner's expense in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Code 1974, § 21-106(5))
Sec. 12-34. - Required preliminary treatment.
(a)
The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having:
(1)
A five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than three hundred (300) milligrams per liter by weight, or
(2)
Containing more than three hundred fifty (350) milligrams per liter by weight of suspended solids, or
(3)
Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics described in section 12-31(b), or
(4)
Having an average daily flow greater than two (2) percent of the average daily sewage flow of the sewer system,
shall be subject to the review and approval of the city.
(b)
Where necessary in the opinion of the city, the owner shall provide, at the owner's expense such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
(1)
Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to three hundred (300) milligrams per liter and the suspended solids to three hundred (300) milligrams per liter by weight, or
(2)
Reduce objectionable characteristics of constituents to within the maximum limits provided for in this division, or
(3)
Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes.
(c)
Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the city together with a letter from the city engineer approving the proposed preliminary treatment facilities and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until such approvals are obtained in writing.
(Code 1974, § 21-106(6); Ord. of 2-11-93(4))
Sec. 12-35. - Preliminary treatment facilities.
Where preliminary treatment facilities are required for any waters or wastes no permit shall be granted until such pretreatment units have been placed in operation and have demonstrated their effectiveness by test. The cost of such testing, sampling and analyzing shall be borne by the waste contributor. Such preliminary treatment facilities shall be maintained continuously and satisfactorily in effective operation by the owner at the owner's expense.
(Code 1974, § 21-106(7))
Sec. 12-36. - Control manholes.
When required by the city, the owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying commercial-industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be conveniently and safely located. It is to be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at the owner's expense and shall be maintained by the owner's so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Code 1974, § 21-106(8))
Sec. 12-37. - Measurements, tests and analyses.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in subsection (b) of section 12-31 and section 12-34, shall be determined in accordance with "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewerage" or with methods approved by the city engineer and may be determined at the control manhole provided for in section 12-36, or upon suitable samples taken at such manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole may be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole to the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. If, in the judgment of the superintendent, analyses must be performed which are beyond the scope of the laboratory at the sewerage treatment plant, these analyses shall be performed at a laboratory designated by the superintendent and the cost of these analyses shall be borne by the owner.
(Code 1974, § 21-106(9))
Sec. 12-38. - Special agreements and arrangements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial, commercial, or other owner from whose premises an industrial-commercial or domestic waste eminates which is of unusual strength or character from being accepted by the city for treatment subject to approval by applicable state and federal agencies and to payment therefor by such owner.
(Code 1974, § 21-106(10))
Sec. 12-39. - Surcharge formula for high-strength wastewater.
Wastewater from any building sewer entering a public sewer, which is strictly domestic in nature but of high strength, will cause the user to be subject to a surcharge based on the following formula:
Surcharge formula:
C;sub§\sub; = (B c (B) + S c (S) + P c (P)) V u
Where:
EXPAND
C;sub§\sub; = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength.
B c = Operation and maintenance cost for treatment of unit of B.O.D., milligrams per liter.
B = Concentration of B.O.D. from a user above a base level of two hundred (200) milligrams per liter.
S c = Operation and maintenance cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids, milligrams per liter.
S = Concentration of suspended solids from a user above a base level of two hundred (200) milligrams per liter.
P c = Operation and maintenance cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant, milligrams per liter.
P = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level in milligrams per liter. The base level shall be determined by the average discharge of the pollutant (mg/l) by residential users.
V u = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time, gallons per month.
  The city shall take twenty-four-hour proportional composite samples of a user's sewerage discharge to determine concentration levels of B, S and P and to determine a pattern of surcharges. Thereafter, the city may periodically take additional samples for the purpose of adjusting the surcharges. The user may request additional sampling and testing and obtain same provided the user bears the expense.
(Code 1974, § 21-106(11))
Secs. 12-40—12-44. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY CHARGE FOR CONTRIBUTION OF WASTES OTHER THAN DOMESTIC

Sec. 12-45. - Definitions.
As used in this division, the following definitions shall apply:
Delivery flow rate characteristics: The rate, by volume and pollutant strength, at which an industry discharges its process wastes to the municipal sewage system.
Federal regulations: Water Pollution Control Act amendments of 1972 (Public Law 92-500) and subsequent regulations pertaining thereto, 40 CFR 35, et. al.
Industrial user: Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
(1)
Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing.
(2)
Division B: Mining.
(3)
Division D: Manufacturing.
(4)
Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and Sanitary Services.
(5)
Division I: Services.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if the city determines that such user will introduce domestic-type wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences. Industrial operations conducted at governmentally owned facilities are exempt from industrial cost recovery requirements.
Letter of intent: A written statement from an industrial user to the municipality of that user's intent to utilize a specified portion of the publiclyowned waste treatment facility for a given length of time.
Maximum recovery period: The length of time during which the cost recovery system will be in effect will correspond to the useful life of the facility or group of facilities, but shall not exceed thirty (30) years.
Reserve capacity: That unused portion of the treatment work's capacity that has been set aside by formal written agreement for use by a specific industry or industries. Factors such as strength, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics shall be considered and included when determining the reserve capacity to insure a proportional distribution of the cost recovery obligation.
Significant industrial user: Any industrial user that will contribute greater than ten (10) percent of the design flow or design pollutant loading of the treatment works.
Treatment works: Any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of liquid nature to implement section 201 of Public Law 92-500, or necessary to recycle or reuse life of the works, including intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their appurtenances, extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof, elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any work, including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment; or any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal waste, including storm water runoff, or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water or sanitary sewer systems.
Useful life: Estimated period during which a treatment works will be operated, which is thirty (30) years as determined by the cost effectiveness analysis (see appendix Z of the title II regulations, 40 CFR, part 35).
(Code 1974, § 21-108(1))
Sec. 12-46. - Receipt of grant funds; approval of regulations.
The city has received federal grant funds under P. O. 660 as amended, and is required to develop an industrial cost recovery (ICR) system in compliance with the applicable federal regulations under p. l. 92-500. All provisions of this division are subject to the approval of the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency and any subsequent changes hereto are subject to U. S. EPA approval.
(Code 1974, § 21-108(2))
Sec. 12-47. - Computing ICR charge; installment payment.
All industrial users connected to the municipal sewer system who discharge other than domestic wastes shall pay an annual industrial cost re-covery charge in accordance with the following formula:
F × $128.48 / 1000 GPD  + C ×  $29.98 / #/Day  + SS ×  $17.10 / #/Day  1/L
Where:
EXPAND
F = Industry Peak Flow Contribution (GPD)
C = Pounds of CBOD 5 per day contribution
SS = Pounds of suspended solids per day contribution
L = Remaining useful life of the project which is thirty (30) years beginning in 1976.
  The city may elect to receive the ICR payment either in monthly installments or annually.
(Code 1974, § 21-108(3), (4))
Sec. 12-48. - Liability for surcharge.
Industrial users of this class are subject to the surcharge provisions of section 12-39 where applicable.
(Code 1974, § 21-108(5))
Sec. 12-49. - Disposition of refunds.
The city commission is required to refund annually to the U. S. treasury, one-half of the payments recovered from industries together with any interest that may have been earned thereon between the time of collection and the time of transmittal to the federal government. Forty (40) percent of the recovered funds (which equals eighty (80) percent of the grantee's share) must be retained by the municipality and used strictly for grant eligible construction, as defined by the statute while the remaining ten (10) percent (twenty (20) percent of the grantee's share may be used as the grantee wishes). However, such funds may not be used to pay for general operation and maintenance costs or to provide rebates to industrial users for costs incurred by those users through implementation of user charge or industrial cost recovery systems.
(Code 1974, § 21-108(6))
Sec. 12-50. - Administration of approved ICR systems.
(a)
Deposit of recovered funds: All funds recovered during the annual accounting period (with the exception of the discretionary portion of the city's share) shall be deposited in interest bearing accounts which are fully collateralized by obligations of the U. S. government or by obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U. S. government or any agency thereof.
(b)
Annual payment to EPA: At annual intervals, beginning not later than one (1) year after the start of the industrial cost recovery period, the city shall submit the following:
(1)
A check for the annual payment to the federal government, made payable to the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(2)
Certification by a certified public accountant (CPA) that the city has complied with all provisions of the approved ICR system and that the annual payment is the full amount due the federal government and includes interest earned on recovered funds during the preceding annual accounting period.
This certification must also delineate the fiscal status, including accrued interest earned, on that portion of the recovered funds retained by the grantee for future expansion and reconstruction of the treatment works.
(c)
Expenditure of retained amounts: The city must obtain the written approval of the regional administrator (or the state agency when such agency is certified by EPA to do so) prior to committing any of the funds retained for the construction of treatment works, pursuant to 40 CFR 35.928-2. Since retained funds belong to the city, approval of their use is not a separate grant and need not be applied for through the state priority system. Only the approval of the regional administrator is necessary.
In order to approve expenditures, the regional administrator will need from the city: (1) a preliminary engineering report sufficiently detailed so as to permit a determination of eligible costs, and (2) an estimate of eligible costs.
Eligible costs are defined by 40 CFR 35.940. The city should not proceed with the expenditure of funds for construction drawings and specifications or enter into a construction contract until the use of retained funds has been approved by the regional administrator.
(d)
Revision of ICR system: Any significant revision to the approved ICR system must be submitted to, and approved by, the regional administrator (or the state water pollution control agency, when certified to do so by the regional administrator) prior to implementation. Significant revisions include any modification of the provisions of the ordinance establishing the legal framework of the ICR system or any change in the method of ICR allocation to individual industries. Changes in ICR payments from individual industries caused by changes in the waste discharge by those industries or by the entrance of new industries into the system do not require EPA approval.
(e)
Maintenance of files: 40 CFR 935.13(d) requires that the city maintain, for the duration of the cost recovery period, such records as are necessary to document compliance with the grant requirements. These will generally include a copy of the following:
(1)
Documentation of the final grant amount.
(2)
The originally approved industrial cost recovery system and all materials and correspondence related thereto.
(3)
Any and all subsequent revisions to the industrial cost recovery system, and all materials and correspondence related thereto.
(4)
A list of contributing industries and their loads to the system.
(5)
Information on the total loading to the system.
(6)
The city's notification to EPA of initiation of operation of the industrial cost recovery system.
(7)
All materials relating to approvals of the use of retained funds.
(8)
The record of the city's annual payments to EPA and the CPA certifications related thereto.
These materials are necessary for all audits and shall be made available to representatives of EPA or the state upon request.
(f)
Audits: The U. S. Environmental Protection Agency will perform audits at the request of the regional administrator and/or at random intervals without the request of the regional administrator. The city shall provide the regional administrator or such administrator's authorized representatives access to all facilities, accounts and records pertaining to the ICR system for the purpose of these audits. A copy of the audit report will be made available to the city by the EPA regional office.
(Code 1974, § 21-108(7))
Sec. 12-51. - Letter of intent.
All significant industrial users shall furnish the city with a letter of intent expressing their intent to pay the share of the federal grant allocable to the treatment of their wastes. The letter shall include a statement of the user's intended period of use and the amount of capacity the user wishes to have allocated for treatment of its wastes (the term "capacity" refers to pollutant strength as well as volume of discharge). If an industrial user discontinues use of the treatment works in the future, its payment for cost recovery will cease and the capacity formerly utilized by that industry will become available for increases in loading from existing users, or for new industrial users who will assume their proportional share of the capital costs during the remaining portion of the recovery period. In the event of an industry's discontinuance, the amount of costs recovered will decline and the amount required to be submitted to the U. S. treasury will be reduced accordingly. There is no requirement for other industries to assume the portion of the ICR payment which is unrecovered due to the departure of an industry.
(Code 1974, § 21-108(8))
Sec. 12-52. - Monitoring of volume and pollutant strength of industrial users.
The city shall determine the method of monitoring the discharge of industrial users and whether or not the monitoring shall be continuous or at regular intervals. The cost of all monitoring shall be borne by the industry being served.
(Code 1974, § 21-108(9))
Sec. 12-53. - Notification of implementation.
The industrial cost recovery period will commence upon completion of step 3 project construction. In instances where that is not appropriate, e.g., where industrial use commences more than one year before the project completion date, the ICR period will begin from the date of beneficial use by the first industrial user. Not later than thirty (30) days after commencement of the ICR period, the city will notify the regional administrator, in writing, of the date of this implementation of the ICR system. At that time, the city will establish the accounting period for the ICR system. The first payment to the grantee by industrial users shall be made not later than one year after the beginning of the ICR period. The initiation of the ICR system can occur before or after the final construction inspection or after the final audit and need not be related to either of these events.
(Code 1974, § 21-108(10))
Sec. 12-54. - Pre-existing agreements.
Pre-existing agreements between applicants and industry, or between applicants and other political jurisdictions, whereby industrial users would pay less than their allocable share of a federal grant cannot be recognized, regardless of the validity of such agreements as a matter of state law.
(Code 1974, § 21-108(11))
Sec. 12-55. - Excessive-flow discharge charge formula.
The volume of wastewater from any building sewer which exceeds two (2) percent of the average daily flow of the sewer system and which is allowed to discharge the full volume to a public sewer will cause the user to be subject to a charge based on the following formula:
Charge formula:
C u = V C V
Where:
EXPAND
C u = A charge for a volume in excess of two (2) percent of the average daily flow of the sewer system.
V c = Operation and maintenance cost for transportation and treatment of a unit of wastewater volume, gallons.
V = Volume of wastewater from a user above two (2) percent of the average daily flow of the sewer system.
  The city shall determine the average daily flow from all users periodically and shall determine the average daily flow of the user by actual measurement and/or flow estimates to determine the charge for flow above two (2) percent of the sewer system average daily flow. The user may request actual measurements of his sewerage discharge at any time and obtain same, provided that user bears the expense.
(Code 1974, § 21-108(12))
Cross reference— Surcharge formula for strong wastewater, § 12-39.
Secs. 12-56—12-59. - Reserved.
