Chapter 5 - BUILDINGS; CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED ACTIVITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority generally, §§ 4-9, 4-10, 4-40.
Cross reference— Mobile home building or occupancy permit, § 11-5; tree service permit, § 12-70; building permit, app. A, § 10-2 et seq.; disposal of building debris, § 12-84.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 5-1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted April 10, 1997(2), set out a new § 5-8, the provisions of which, per the city, repeal § 5-1. Section 5-1 pertained to the Standard Building Code and derived from Code 1974, § 36-101.
Sec. 5-2. - Building permits.
The building permit fees shall be as follows:
EXPAND
(1) Anything under roof $ 0.10 per sq. ft.
(2) Multistory buildings:
Bottom floor   0.10 per sq. ft.
Thereafter   0.05 per sq. ft.
(3) Paving, concrete, asphalt—Commercial only   0.02 per sq. ft.
(4) Awnings—Commercial only   0.02 per sq. ft.
(5) Mobile home permit  15.00
(6) Well permit  50.00
  (Ord. of 1-1-87)
Sec. 5-3. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted April 10, 1997(2), set out a new § 5-8, the provisions of which, per the city, repeal § 5-3. Section 5-3 pertained to the National Electric Code and derived from Code 1974, § 36-102.
Sec. 5-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted April 10, 1997(2), set out a new § 5-8, the provisions of which, per the city, repeal § 5-4. Section 5-4 pertained to the Standard Gas Code and derived from Code 1974, § 36-103(2).
Sec. 5-5. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted April 10, 1997(2), set out a new § 5-8, the provisions of which, per the city, repeal § 5-5. Section 5-5 pertained to the Standard Housing Code and derived from Code 1974, § 36-104.
Sec. 5-6. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted April 10, 1997(2), set out a new § 5-8, the provisions of which, per the city, repeal § 5-6. Section 5-6 pertained to the Standard Plumbing Code and derived from Code 1974, § 36-105.
Sec. 5-7. - Nonapplicability of self-inspection state law provisions.
Pursuant to the authority contained in Section 3 of Act 1046, Georgia Laws, 1996, and O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d), relating to self-inspection of water and sewer projects by master plumbers or utility contractors, shall not be applicable within the city.
(Ord. of 9-12-96)
Sec. 5-8. - Codes adopted.
(a)
The following codes, the latest editions as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, shall be enforced by the city:
(1)
Standard Building Code;
(2)
Standard Mechanical Code;
(3)
Standard Gas Code;
(4)
Standard Plumbing Code;
(5)
National Electrical Code;
(6)
Standard Fire Prevention Code;
(7)
CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code;
(8)
Georgia State Energy Code for Buildings.
(b)
The following appendices of such codes, as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, are hereby adopted by reference as though they were copied herein fully:
(1)
Standard Building Code: Appendix C, D, and G;
(2)
Standard Plumbing Code: Appendix B and C;
(3)
Standard Fire Prevention Code: Appendix C.
(c)
The Standard Housing Code, the latest edition as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, is hereby adopted by reference as though it was copied herein fully.
(d)
The procedures set out in "Attachment A" (Administration and Enforcement; on file with the city) shall be the procedures that govern the administration and enforcement process for the above codes.
(Ord. of 4-10-97)
Secs. 5-9—5-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UNDERGROUND UTILITY PROTECTION

Sec. 5-20. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Damage: Includes the substantial weakening of structural or lateral support of an underground utility, penetration or destruction of any protective coating, housing or other protective device of an underground utility, and the partial or complete severance of an underground utility.
Demolish, demolition: Any operation by which a structure or mass of material is wrecked, razed, rendered, moved or removed by means of any tools or equipment, or the discharge of any explosive.
Excavate, excavation: An operation for the purpose of the movement or removal of earth, rock, or other materials in or on the ground by use of mechanized equipment or by discharge of explosives, and including augering, backfilling, digging, ditching, drilling, grading, plowing-in, pulling-in, ripping, scraping, trenching and tunneling, but not including the tilling of soil for agricultural purposes.
Mechanized equipment: Equipment operated by means of mechanical power including trenchers, bulldozers, power shovels, augers, backhoes, scrapers, drills, cable and pipe plows and other equipment used for plowing-in or pulling-in cable or pipe.
Operator: This city.
Utility: Any line, system or facility used for producing, storing, conveying, transmitting, or distributing communication, natural gas, electricity, water or sewage.
Working day: Every day except a Saturday, Sunday, or legal state holiday.
(Ord. of 4-1-83, § 2)
Sec. 5-21. - Responsibility not diminished by excavation and demolition permit.
A permit issued pursuant to law authorizing excavation or demolition operations shall not be deemed to relieve a person from the responsibility for complying with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 4-1-83, § 3)
Sec. 5-22. - Locating utility installation before excavating or demolishing.
Except as provided in section 5-25, no person may excavate in a street, highway, public space, a private easement of an operator, or near the location of a utility installed on the premises of a customer served by such utility, or demolish a building without having first ascertained in the manner prescribed in sections 5-23 and 5-24 the location of all underground utilities in the area that would be affected by the proposed excavation or demolition. The city shall maintain a list of all underground utilities and plats or maps showing their location.
(Ord. of 4-1-83, § 4)
Sec. 5-23. - Notice of intent to excavate or demolish.
(a)
Except as provided in section 5-25, before commencing any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 5-22, each person responsible for such excavation or demolition shall serve upon the city telephonic notice of intent to excavate or demolish at least three (3), but not more than ten (10) full working days, before commencing such operations. The notification shall be made to the utility superintendent in the city hall.
(b)
Where demolition of a building is proposed, the city shall be given reasonable time to remove or protect its utilities before demolition of the building is commenced.
(c)
The written or telephonic notice required by subsection (a) of this section must contain the name, address, and telephone number of the person filing the notice of intent, and, if different, the person responsible for the excavation or demolition, the starting date, anticipated duration, and type of excavation or demolition operation to be conducted, the location of the proposed excavation or demolition, and whether or not explosives are to be used.
(d)
If the notification required by this section is made by telephone, an adequate record of such notification shall be maintained by the city clerk.
(Ord. of 4-1-83, § 5)
Sec. 5-24. - Response to notice of intent to excavate or demolish.
(a)
The city having been notified in accordance with section 5-23 shall, not less than two (2) working days in advance of the proposed excavation or demolition (unless a shorter period is agreed upon by the person responsible for the excavation or demolition and the city), supply, by use of maps when appropriate, the following information to the person responsible for the excavation or demolition:
(1)
The approximate location and description of all of its underground utilities which may be damaged as a result of the excavation or demolition;
(2)
The location and description of all utility markers indicating the approximate location of the underground utilities; and
(3)
Any other information that would assist that person in locating and thereby avoiding damage to the underground utilities, including, providing adequate temporary markings indicating the approximate location of the underground utility in locations where permanent utility markers do not exist.
(b)
For purposes of this section the approximate location of underground utilities is defined as a strip of land at least three (3) feet wide, but not wider than the width of the utility plus one and one-half (1½) feet on either side of the utility.
(Ord. of 4-1-83, § 6)
Sec. 5-25. - Emergency excavation or demolition.
Compliance with the notice requirements of section 5-23 is not required of persons responsible for emergency excavation or demolition to ameliorate an imminent danger to life, health, or property, provided, however, that such persons give to the city as soon as practicable, oral notice of the emergency excavation or demolition to and request emergency assistance from the city in locating and providing immediate protection to its underground utilities. An imminent danger to life, health, or property exists whenever there is a substantial likelihood that loss of life, health, or property will result before the procedures under sections 5-23 and 5-24 can be fully complied with.
(Ord. of 4-1-83, § 7)
Sec. 5-26. - Precautions to avoid damage.
In addition to the notification requirements of section 5-23, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 5-22 shall:
(1)
Plan the excavation or demolition to avoid damage to or minimize interference with underground utilities in and near the construction area;
(2)
Maintain a clearance between an underground utility and the cutting edge or point of any mechanized equipment, taking into account the known limit of control of such cutting edge or point, as may be reasonably necessary to avoid damage to such utility; and
(3)
Provide such support for underground utilities in and near the construction area, including during backfill operation, as may be reasonably necessary for the protection of such utilities.
(Ord. of 4-1-83, § 8)
Sec. 5-27. - Excavation or demolition damage.
(a)
Except as provided by subsection (b) of this section, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 5-22 that results in any damage to an underground utility shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the city of the location and nature of the damage and shall allow the city to accomplish necessary repairs before completing the excavation or demolition in the immediate area of such utility.
(b)
Each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 5-22 that results in damage to an underground utility permitting the escape of any flammable, toxic, or corrosive gas or liquid shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the city, police and fire departments, and take any other action as may be reasonably necessary, to protect persons and property and to minimize the hazards until arrival of the city's utility operating personnel or the police and fire departments.
(Ord. of 4-1-83, § 9)
Sec. 5-28. - Civil penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such violation. Actions to recover the penalty provided for in this section shall be brought by the city attorney. All penalties recovered in any such actions shall be paid into the general fund of the city. This article does not affect any civil remedies for personal injury or property (including underground utilities) damage except as otherwise specifically provided for in this article.
(Ord. of 4-1-83, § 10)
Secs. 5-29—5-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - WATER WELL DIGGING
DIVISION 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 5-40. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, drill or construct a water well in the city.
(Ord. of 9-19-91)
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Sept. 19, 1991, repealed former §§ 5-40—5-42, relative to permits, inspections and maximum diameter of wells, respectively, and enacted new provisions as herein set out; however, § 5-42, providing an effective date of Sept. 19, 1991, has been omitted at the discretion of the editor. Formerly, such sections derived from § 1(a)—(c) of an ordinance adopted May 14, 1981.
Sec. 5-41. - Existing water wells.
All persons residing within the city who own existing water wells shall be permitted to continue the use of such wells.
(Ord. of 9-19-91)
Note— See the editor's note to § 5-40.
Sec. 5-42. - Reserved.
Note— See the editor's note to § 5-40.
Sec. 5-43. - Water use restricted.
No water produced from the wells herein described shall be used for consumption by humans or any household purpose, but such water shall be used only outside dwelling houses for the purpose of watering lawns or gardens, filling swimming pools or other outside activities.
(Ord. of 5-14-81(2), § 1(d))
Sec. 5-44. - Connection to city water lines; discharge to city sewage system.
(a)
No well water or lines running from such wells shall be connected or in any way attached to any city water lines or any lines running on the premises supplying city water.
(b)
No water produced from any well shall be dumped directly into the city sewage system.
(Ord. of 5-14-81(2), § 1(d))
Sec. 5-45. - Maintaining well in compliance.
All persons residing within the city who own existing water wells shall maintain the same in compliance with all of the requirements of this article for operating a well in the city.
(Ord. of 5-14-81(2), § 2(a))
Secs. 5-46—5-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WELLHEAD PROTECTION

Sec. 5-51. - Short title and purpose.
(a)
This ordinance shall be known as the "wellhead protection ordinance."
(b)
The purpose of this ordinance is to insure the provision of a safe and sanitary drinking water supply for the city by the establishment of wellhead protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are the supply sources for the city water system and by the designation and regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones.
(Ord. No. 1-13-00, § 1)
Sec. 5-52. - Definitions.
When used in this ordinance the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given in this section:
(a)
Hazardous waste or material: Any waste or material which, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics, may:
(1)
Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
(2)
Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
(b)
Sanitary landfill. A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescent wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover thereon.
(c)
Wellhead. The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals, valves, and other attachments.
(Ord. of 1-13-00, § 2)
Sec. 5-53. - Establishment of wellhead protection zone.
There is hereby established a use district to be known as a wellhead protection zone, identified and described as all the area within a circle, the center of which is the center of any city water supply wellhead and the radius of which is 1500 feet.
(Ord. of 1-13-00, § 3)
Sec. 5-54. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be permitted within wellhead protection zones:
(1)
Any use permitted within existing agricultural or single family residential districts, except that the minimum residential lot size for a lot, any portion of which lies within the wellhead protection zone, shall not be less than one acre.
(2)
Any other open land use where any building located on the property is incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
(Ord. No. 1-13-00, § 4)
Sec. 5-55. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within well protection zones, whether or not such use or condition may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section 5-54 of this ordinance:
(1)
Surface use or storage of hazardous material, expressly including commercial use of agricultural pesticides;
(2)
Septic tanks or drain fields appurtenant thereto;
(3)
Impervious surfaces other than roofs of buildings, and streets, driveways, and walks serving buildings permitted under section 5-54 of this ordinance;
(4)
Sanitary landfills;
(5)
Hazardous waste disposal sites;
(6)
Stormwater infiltration basins;
(7)
Underground storage tanks;
(8)
Sanitary sewer lines within 150 feet of a wellhead.
(Ord. of 1-13-00, § 5)
Sec. 5-56. - Administration.
The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection zone established under this ordinance, including, without limitation, those applicable to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement, and penalties, shall be the same as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the city, as the same is presently enacted or may, from time to time, be amended.
(Ord. of 1-13-00, § 6)
Secs. 5-57—5-65. - Reserved.
