ARTICLE III. - PEDDLERS; ITINERANT MERCHANTS; SOLICITORS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 13-80. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Itinerant merchant: Any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, and whether or not a resident of the city, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares, and merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad box car, boat, or public room in any hotel, lodging house, apartment, or shop within the city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, and merchandise, either privately or at public auction.
Peddler: Any person, whether or not a resident of this city, travelling by foot, or by wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden produce, farm products, or provisions, who offers and exposes the same for sale, or who, without travelling from place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance.
(Code 1974, § 32-202(2); Ord. of 12-28-83, § 2)
State Law reference— Definition of "transient merchant," O.C.G.A. § 43-46-2.
Sec. 13-81. - Charitable solicitation—Registration and permit required.
Any person who wishes to solicit donations or contributions for, or to sell any insignia or novelty on the streets of the city on behalf of or under the sponsorship of any charitable, religious, social, patriotic or civic club or organization shall be required to register such solicitation or sale with the chief of police at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance of such event and to obtain a permit therefor.
(Code 1974, § 32-203(1))
State Law reference— Registration of charitable organizations prior to solicitation is required at the state level under O.C.G.A. § 43-17-5.
Sec. 13-82. - Same—Form of registration.
The registration shall be in writing, shall be signed by the chief officer of the club or organization, and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name and object of the charitable, religious, social, patriotic or civic club or organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale to which the registration relates.
(2)
The days on which the solicitation or sale will take place.
(3)
The object for which the funds to be derived from the solicitation or sale will be utilized.
(4)
The name and address of the chief officer of the club or organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale.
(Code 1974, § 32-203(2))
Sec. 13-83. - Same—Registration and permit exemption.
The registration and permit requirement shall not apply to any locally established organization or church operated exclusively for charitable or religious purposes if the solicitations are in the form of collections or contributions at the regular assemblies of any such organization or church.
(Code 1974, § 32-203(3))
Sec. 13-84. - Same—Duty to exhibit permit.
Charitable solicitors shall be required to exhibit their permits at the request of any citizen.
(Code 1974, § 32-203(4))
Sec. 13-85. - Same—Unlawful acts.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to execute a registration which contains any false statement.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit donations or contributions or sell any insignia or novelty on the streets of the city purportedly in behalf of or under the sponsorship of any charitable, religious, social, patriotic or civic club or organization which does not in fact exist.
(Code 1974, § 32-203(5))
Secs. 13-86—13-89. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS

Sec. 13-90. - License required.
Each peddler and itinerant merchant who does business within this municipality shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk in the manner specified in this division.
(Code 1974, § 32-202(1))
State Law reference— State law requires that every "peddler or itinerant trader" and every "transient merchant" obtain a license from the judge of probate of the county in which applicant intends to conduct such business. O.C.G.A. §§ 43-32-1, 43-46-3.
Sec. 13-91. - Exemptions.
This division shall not be applicable to:
(1)
Transient merchants as provided in O.C.G.A. § 43-46-6;
(2)
News vendors;
(3)
Bona fide merchants who merely deliver goods in the regular course of business;
(4)
Bona fide charitable, religious, or philanthropic organizations;
(5)
Bona fide residents of the county who would otherwise be subject to the provisions of this division; except that such bona fide residents of the county are required to comply with sections 13-92(2) and 13-95.
(6)
Bona fide farmers or vegetable growers selling products produced by themselves.
(Code 1974, § 32-202(3))
Sec. 13-92. - Application for license.
Application for a license under this division shall be made as provided in article I of this chapter, except that such application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
The fingerprints of the persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's business, or in lieu thereof at least three (3) letters of recommendation from reliable property owners in the county, certifying as to the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or other evidence which establishes the good character and business responsibility of such persons to the satisfaction of the council;
(2)
The places in the city where it is proposed to carry on applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that such business shall be conducted;
(3)
The places, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant, where applicant within the six (6) months next preceding the date of the application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which such business was conducted;
(4)
A statement of the nature, character, and quality of the goods, wares, or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the city; the invoice value and quality of such goods, wares, and merchandise, where the goods or property to be sold are manufactured or produced; and where such goods or products are located at the time said application is filed;
(5)
A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by the city clerk, copies of all such advertising, whether handbills, circulars, newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to the application as exhibits thereto; and
(6)
Whether or not the persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime, including the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense, and the punishment assessed therefor.
(Code 1974, § 32-202(4))
Sec. 13-93. - Bond.
Before any license shall be issued for engaging in a transient or itinerant business as provided in this division, the applicant for such license shall file with the city clerk a bond running to the city in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), executed by the applicant, as principal, a surety company authorized to do business in the state; such bond to be approved by the city attorney, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of this city and the statutes of this state regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation of such ordinances or statutes, or any persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentations or deception practiced on any person transacting such business with such applicant, whether such misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents, or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods, wares, and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the city attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Code 1974, § 32-202(5))
Sec. 13-94. - Service of process.
Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in business as a peddler or itinerant merchant in this municipality, the applicant for such license shall file with the city clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted under the license and the bond given as required by this division or for the performance of the conditions of such bond or for any breach thereof, which instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that applicant consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made upon such agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be a valid as if personally served upon the persons applying for the license under this division, according to the law of this or any other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the city clerk as herein provided, the city clerk shall send to the licensee at licensee's last known address, by certified mail, a copy of such process.
(Code 1974, § 32-202(6))
Sec. 13-95. - Occupation tax.
Each peddler and/or itinerant merchant as defined in this article shall pay the occupation tax as provided by section 13-4 herein. It is the intent of this section to levy such occupation tax on each individual, whether acting for his or her individual account or as an employee of another. All such persons shall pay in addition thereto the administration fee required by section 13-2 and the regulatory fee required by section 13-3.
(Ord. No. 04-15, § 4, 12-9-04)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 04-15, § 4, adopted Dec. 9, 2004, repealed the former § 13-95 and enacted a new § 13-95 as set out herein. The former § 13-95 pertained to license fee and derived from Code 1974, § 32-202(7).
Sec. 13-96. - Duty to exhibit.
All persons obtaining a license under the provisions of this division shall exhibit such license at the request of any citizen.
(Code 1974, § 32-202(8))
Secs. 13-97—13-99. - Reserved.
