Chapter 6 - CEMETERIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority to acquire, etc., § 1.03(j).
State Law reference— Authority to act as trustee, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-37-4, 36-37-5.

Sec. 6-1. - Improvements, changes; authority of city manager.
The city manager or his designee is authorized to control and supervise any improvements, changes in contour of lots or any other change of any kind or character to any of the lots located in the cemetery property of the city.
No such changes or improvements shall be made to any of such lots without first securing the approval of city manager or his designee and then only under the direct supervision and according to the city manager's or designee's directions.
(Code 1968, § 7-1; ; Ord. No. 376, § 4, 12-3-13 )
Sec. 6-2. - Sale of lots—Prices.
The price of lots in city cemetery property shall be as established by the city council.
(Code 1968, § 7-2)
Sec. 6-3. - Same—Purchase by nonresidents.
Any nonresident of the city desiring to purchase any one or more of the lots in a city cemetery shall pay therefor an amount twice the amount established under section 6-2 as the purchase price of such lots.
(Code 1968, § 7-3)
Sec. 6-4. - Same—Purchase by residents; sale to nonresidents.
The price of lots in a city cemetery shall apply to bona fide and legal residents of the city or to freeholders within the city. Any such resident or freeholder, before purchasing any lots in the cemetery, shall satisfy the city manager or his designee that such prospective purchaser is a legal resident or freeholder of the city, and such purchaser shall agree not to sell or dispose of any such lot or part thereof to a nonresident of the city without first obtaining written consent from the city manager or his designee. In the event such consent is obtained and such resale is made, then such new purchaser or transferee shall pay to the city an amount equal to the original purchase price of the lot. In the event of a violation of this section, the lot shall revert to the city, and the owner thereof shall be reimbursed in the amount originally paid therefor.
(Code 1968, § 7-4; ; Ord. No. 376, § 5, 12-3-13 )
Sec. 6-5. - Charges for opening graves.
The charge by the city for opening a grave in a city cemetery shall be as established by the city council.
(Code 1968, § 7-5)
Sec. 6-6. - Placement of tombstones or markers.
When a tombstone or marker is placed above a grave by any person licensed to perform such work in a city cemetery, such tombstone or marker shall be set in a concrete foundation not less than five (5) feet in depth. When such work is performed by the city the same shall be done at a cost to the lot owner as determined by the city council. The minimum price for setting two (2) by one (1) markers shall be as established by the city council. It shall be unlawful for any lot owner, or any agent or employee of such lot owner, to place any tombstone or marker in a manner otherwise than as provided in this section.
(Code 1968, § 7-6)
Sec. 6-7. - Mausoleums, tombs, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct or build on any lot in a city cemetery any mausoleum, tomb or other edifice of like kind or character or any edifice other than what is commonly termed a monument or marker and in keeping with the monuments and markers now erected in the cemetery. Upon the violation of this section, the city reserves the right to remove any such lot and to assess the costs of such removal against the owner of the lot or against the person erecting the edifice.
(Code 1968, § 7-7)
Sec. 6-8. - Tree planting prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to plant any tree in a city cemetery.
(Code 1968, § 7-8)
Sec. 6-9. - Shrubbery over three feet in height prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to plant upon any lot in a city cemetery any shrubbery which shall exceed three (3) feet in height at the time of such planting, or which shall be allowed to grow to a height of three (3) feet, without having first obtained from the city manager or his designee written permission to plant such shrubbery.
(Code 1968, § 7-9; Ord. No. 376, § 6, 12-3-13 )
Sec. 6-10. - Removal of trees and shrubbery.
The city reserves the right to remove any prohibited trees or shrubbery from any lot in a city cemetery and to assess the costs of such removal against the owner of the lot or against the person planting such trees or shrubbery.
(Code 1968, § 7-10)
Sec. 6-11. - Animals prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit such animal within a city cemetery.
(Code 1968, § 7-11)
Sec. 6-12. - Erection of walls, curbs, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to build or erect any wall, coping or curbing in, around or on any lot in a city cemetery, without first obtaining special permission from the city council.
(Code 1968, § 7-12)
Sec. 6-13. - Obstruction of walks or drives.
It shall be unlawful for any person to block or obstruct any of the walks or drives in a city cemetery.
(Code 1968, § 7-13)
