PART I - THE CHARTER[1]
ACT NO. 597 (H.B. NO. 678)
To reincorporate the City of Clarkston in the County of DeKalb; to create a new charter for said city; to provide for its corporate limits; to provide for the government of said city; to provide for the officials thereof, and their selection, oath, powers and duties; to provide their term of office; to provide for elections; to provide for a recorder's court in said city; to provide for its fiscal administration; to provide restrictions on actions for damages; to provide for penalties; to provide for severability; to provide an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA, AND IT IS HEREBY ENACTED BY AUTHORITY OF THE SAME:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The charter consists of 1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 597). Amendatory enactments are cited in parentheses following amended sections or subsections. Words in brackets have been added by the editor for clarification. Footnotes tying related portions of the charter together and references to relevant state law have been inserted by the editor for facility of usage.

ARTICLE I. - CHARTER, CITY LIMITS AND CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1.01. - [Incorporation.]
This Act is a charter and shall constitute the whole charter of the City of Clarkston, Georgia, repealing and replacing the charter as provided by Georgia Laws of 1914, pages 578—615, as amended. The City of Clarkston, Georgia, in the County of DeKalb, and the inhabitants thereof, are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate by the name and style of the City of Clarkston, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal, and change it at pleasure.
( Ord. No. 418 , § 1, 4-3-18)
State Law reference— Method of incorporation, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-31-1, 36-35-2 et seq.; general powers, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-31-2, 36-34-1.
Sec. 1.02. - City limits.
Said city shall include all territory identified in any annexation enacted by the Georgia General Assembly or by ordinance of the City of Clarkston, as well as the city's original boundary described as follows: All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the County of DeKalb, State of Georgia, embracing and including the territory as follows: One-half (½) mile in every direction from a marker at the center of the old depot site of the Georgia Railroad, said city and its territory being embraced in the circle thus traced by using one-half (½) mile as a radius and said marker at the center of said old depot site as a center.
( Ord. No. 418 , § 2, 4-3-18)
Editor's note— The city has adopted the annexation ordinances listed in the table below, thus rendering the legal description included incomplete. The text of these ordinances is on file with the city clerk.
EXPAND
Ord. No. Date
—  1- 5-70
—  4- 6-70
98  4- 6-81
126  7- 2-85
137  5- 5-87
255 (Amd. by 260, 7-2-02)        1- 8-02
329  4- 1-08
383 12-17-14
391  1- 5-16
413  7-16-17
425 11- 8-18
466  5- 4-21
  State Law reference— Annexation of territory, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-36-1 et seq., 36-35-2.
Sec. 1.03. - Corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the city council, may include the following:
(a)
[Levy, etc. of property taxes:] To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, reevaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation.
Cross reference— Property taxes, § 4.06.
State Law reference— Municipal taxation, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-10, title 48.
(b)
[Levy, etc. of license taxes:] To levy and to provide for the collection of license taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions.
State Law reference— Authority to levy, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-2, 48-13-5 et seq..
(c)
[Levy, etc. of registration fees on motor vehicles:] To levy and to provide for the collection of registration fees on automobiles and trucks owned by residents of the city, and also on automobiles and trucks owned by non-residents and operated within the city with regularity. Such registration fees on trucks or automobiles may be graduated according to their tonnage capacities, weight or horsepower.
(d)
[Appropriations, borrowing, expenditures, bond issuance:] To appropriate and borrow money to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize expenditure of money for any municipal purpose, or for matters of National or State interest, and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the State. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Cross reference— Appropriations, § 4.03.
State Law reference— Borrowing money, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-6 et seq., 36-39-1 et seq., 36-82-1 et seq.
(e)
[Acquiring, etc. property:] To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
Cross reference— See also (g) and (j) herein.
State Law reference— Acquiring, etc. property, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-3, 36-34-5, 36-37-6, 36-37-2 et seq., 36-61-9.
(f)
[Condemnation of property for municipal purposes:] To condemn property, inside or outside the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the city council, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933 [repealed], or under other applicable public acts.
State Law reference— Eminent domain for water and sewer systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; for urban redevelopment, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-9; limitation on eminent domain, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.
(g)
[Acquiring, etc. public utilities:] To acquire, construct, operate, distribute, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks and/or a natural gas system subject to the provisions of applicable general law. For water and gas furnished and for all sewerage and sanitary services rendered, said city may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service to be provided and shall have a lien against any property of the persons served; said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
State Law reference— Municipal utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.
(h)
[Public utility and public service franchises and contracts:] To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, not to exceed periods of fifty (50) years. The council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor.
State Law reference— Authority to grant franchises, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2.
(i)
[Regulating public utilities:] To regulate the rates and services of public utilities insofar as not in conflict with such regulation by the Georgia Public Service Commission or other similar State or Federal agency having jurisdiction in such matters.
(j)
[Acquisition, etc. of public ways, parks, etc.:] To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia [repealed] or other applicable public acts.
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-3 et seq.; 36-39-1 et seq.; 36-37-2 et seq., 36-64-1 et seq.
(k)
[Requiring correction of unsafe condition of real estate:] To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition, the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so.
(l)
[Standards of health and sanitation:] To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. §§ 31-3-16, 36-34-4.
(m)
[Disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse:] To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse. Charges may be imposed to cover the costs of such services which, if unpaid, shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner, and under the same remedies, as a lien for city property taxes.
State Law reference— Litter control law, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-40 et seq.; solid waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.
(n)
[Prohibiting detrimental acts, etc.:] To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city.
(o)
[Nuisances:] To define a nuisance in the City and to provide for its abatement consistent with standards and procedures established by general law.
State Law reference— Authority as to nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
(p)
[Building, etc. standards:] To establish minimum standards for, and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards. This subsection does not apply to work done by and for public utilities.
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.
(q)
[Weights and measures:] To regulate and license weights and measures.
(r)
[Commitment of prisoners:] To provide that persons given jail sentences by the municipal court may be committed to the DeKalb County jail to serve their sentence pursuant to agreement with the appropriate County officers.
State Law reference— Authority of municipal court, O.C.G.A. §§ 17-7-22, 36-32-3, 36-32-5; defining criminal offenses by city, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.
(s)
[Regulating, etc. animals and fowl:] To regulate and license, or prohibit, the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition, by sale, gift, or humane killing, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance.
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-3.
(t)
[Regulating, etc. vehicles for hire:] To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles.
(u)
[Assessments for public improvements:] To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments for public improvements.
State Law reference— Public improvements, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-3 et seq., 36-39-1 et seq.
(v)
[Providing for punishment of violators:] To provide that the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation or order shall be punishable as a misdemeanor, as hereinafter provided.
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.
(w)
[Plenary powers, etc.:] To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in the Act as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the constitution or application public acts of the State.
State Law reference— Powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.
(x)
[Compelling removal, etc. of facilities of public service corporations:] To compel any and all public service corporations operating or doing business in said city to remove and replace and readjust at their own expense all tracks, poles, conduits, wires and other appurtenances and structures used by them in the prosecution of their business functions, when ever the same may, in the discretion of the city council, be necessary to carry out any ordinance or plan of the municipal government of the City of Clarkston, or to the best interests of the city or its inhabitants.
State Law reference— Regulation, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-30-10, 36-34-2.
(y)
[Requiring railroad street crossing repair, etc.:] To require the railroads or street railroads running through said town or a portion thereof, to make and repair such public crossings for pedestrians or vehicles over or across their several roads whenever or in such a manner as said mayor and council shall deem necessary; to place or repair such crossings, or to open or keep open any street in said town crossing them, and the mayor and council may pass any ordinance needful for carrying out the provisions of this section. And in case any railroad or street railroad shall fail or refuse to make such crossings within fifteen (15) days or to repair the same within twenty-four (24) hours after having been notified to do so by said city, the mayor and council shall have the power to create and make the same across the railroad or street railroad, and to repair the same at the expense of said railroad or street railroad, and may issue execution therefor, and levy and collect the same as in the case of tax executions.
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-30-10, 36-34-2.
(z)
[Advertising of city:] To make appropriations and payments from the general funds of the city for the purpose of advertising said city and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital and commercial and manufacturing and other enterprises into the city, and also for making contributions to any board of trade or chamber of commerce or like body in said city, or DeKalb County, which may have for its object any of the above stated public purposes, and also to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city for the support of public hospitals, libraries; charities and other eleemosynary institutions in the city.
( Ord. No. 403, § 1, 1-3-17 ; Ord. No. 418 , § 3, 4-3-18)
Sec. 1.04. - [Continuation in effect of] ordinances.
All ordinances, by-laws, rules and regulations, now in force in said city, not inconsistent with this Act, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the mayor and council of said city.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL

Sec. 2.01. - Election of mayor and council members.
The person serving as mayor and the council members serving on the effective date of this section shall continue to serve for the remainder of their terms and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in 2011, and quadrennially thereafter, there shall be an election to elect the successors to the three council members whose terms expire at the end of that year. On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in 2013, and quadrennially thereafter, there shall be an election to elect the mayor and the successors to the three council members whose terms expire at the end of that year. The candidate for mayor receiving a majority of votes cast shall be elected mayor. The candidates for council members receiving the greatest, second greatest, and third greatest number of votes cast for council members shall be elected. Elections shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21, the Georgia Election Code.
(Ord. No. 75, 8-2-76; Ga. Laws, 2010, Act. No. 534 (House Bill No. 1507), § 2; Ord. No. 418 , § 4, 4-3-18)
Cross reference— Qualifications for mayor and councilmen, § 2-08.
State Law reference— The date of municipal elections, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-9; authority to designate precincts, §§ O.C.G.A. § 21-2-260; authority to appoint managers, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-90; managers and clerks to be sworn, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-93; challenging voters, O.C.G.A. 21-2-229; contest procedure, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-520 ert seq.; authority to regulate absentee voting, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; absentee voting procedure, § 21-3-80 et seq.
Sec. 2.02. - City council.
(a)
The mayor and six (6) council members shall compose the city council, in which is vested all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this Act. The council shall be the final judge of the election and qualifications of its members.
(b)
The compensation of the mayor and council members shall be as prescribed by ordinance; provided that salary changes enacted shall not become effective during the term of the council enacting such change, consistent with state general law. The council members and mayor shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
(c)
The city council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place, as provided by ordinances. The council shall meet in special session on written call of any two (2) council members, upon twenty-four (24) hours notice to the public pursuant to State general law and notice served on the other council members personally or left at their residences at least twelve (12) hours in advance of the meeting. But such notice to council members of a special meeting shall not be required if the mayor and all council members are present when the special meeting is called. The mayor may also call a special meeting, pursuant to the procedures just set forth, with the written consent of two council members. During a state of emergency or disaster declared by the governor or his/her designee, the mayor may call a special meeting pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54 upon providing such notice to the council members as may be possible under the circumstances. Only the business stated in the written call may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the council.
(d)
The city council shall exercise its powers in public meetings. Any four (4) members of the city council shall constitute a quorum. For the purposes of determining a quorum only, the mayor shall count as a member of the city council. The council may, by ordinance, adopt rules and by-laws to govern the conduct of its business; including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members.
(e)
By a majority vote of a quorum of the city council, the council may subpoena and examine witnesses, may order the production of books and papers, and may punish for refusal to obey such an order or subpoena, or for disorderly or contemptuous behavior in the presence of the council.
( Ord. No. 403, § 2, 1-3-17 ; Ord. No. 418 , § 5, 4-3-18)
Code reference—For present salaries, see §§ 2-2 and 2-3.
State Law reference— Rights and liabilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-4 et seq., authority to fix salaries, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 2.03. - Mayor as presiding officer; veto power.
(a)
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council; shall have a vote in case of a tie in any vote of the city council; shall be the ceremonial head of the city; shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage; shall sign deeds, bonds, and contracts when authorized by the council to do so; shall be the officer to accept process against the city; and shall perform other duties imposed by this Charter and by ordinances not inconsistent with this Charter.
(b)
The mayor shall have the power to veto official acts of the city council. The mayor shall have five days after meetings of the council in which to file with the clerk in writing his/her dissent, but the city council may pass the ordinance, order, or resolution, notwithstanding the veto, by an affirmative vote of four (4) council members, to be taken by ayes and nays, and entered upon the minutes.
(Ga. Laws, 2010, Act No. 534 (House Bill No. 1507); Ord. No. 418 , § 6, 4-3-18)
Cross reference— Administrative duties of mayor, § 3.02.
Sec. 2.04. - Vice-mayor.
The city council, at its January regular meeting, shall elect from its membership a vice-mayor for a term of one year. In the event that no decision is reached at such regular meeting; the council shall, within five (5) ballots to be taken within ten (10) days following such meeting, elect the vice-mayor; otherwise the council member who received the highest number of votes, when he/she was last elected, shall become vice-mayor. The vice-mayor shall perform the duties of the mayor during his/her absence or inability to act, and shall fill out any unexpired term in the office of mayor, unless and until the position is filled by special election. If the vice- mayor fills a vacancy in the office of mayor, a new vice-mayor shall be elected by majority vote of the council. ( Ord. No. 418 , § 7, 4-3-18)
Sec. 2.05. - Vacancy in office of mayor or council member.
(a)
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a council member resigns, dies, moves his or her residence from the city, has been continuously disabled for a period of six (6) months so as to prevent him or her from discharging the duties of office, shall have engaged in any activity or done any act which under the laws of this state would preclude him or her from continuing to serve as an elected official, or shall have been removed from office by the electorate as provided by law. Such vacancy shall be declared by the mayor unless it shall be the office of mayor which is vacant, and in such case by the vice-mayor. Such declaration shall be made in a regular meeting of the city council and shall be affirmed by a majority vote of the city council.
(b)
Should a vacancy occur in the office of mayor, the vice mayor shall assume the duties of the mayor until an election is held pursuant to this subsection. If a regular municipal election to elect a mayor will occur within one hundred eighty (180) days of the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of mayor, then the vice-mayor shall complete the vacant mayor's term. If no such regular election is scheduled, a special election to elect a mayor to fill out the vacant mayor's term shall be held. If required, such special election shall be held not less than sixty (60) days and not more than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date that a vacancy in the office of mayor is declared and in any event on a date provided for by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-540(c). If more than one (1) date provided for by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-540(c) meets the terms of this charter provision, then the city council shall select the date of the special election by resolution.
(c)
If the vacancy occurs in the office of council member and if a regular municipal election will occur for the council seat that is vacant within twelve (12) months of the date of the declaration of such vacancy, then the city council may appoint a qualified person to complete the unexpired term of the vacant council member. Upon declaration of a vacancy in the office of council member, if it shall be more than twelve (12) months to the next regular municipal election for the council seat that is vacant, a special election shall be held to fill the vacancy. If required, such special election shall be held not less than sixty (60) days and not more than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date that a vacancy in the office of council member is declared and in any event on a date provided for by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-540(c). If more than one (1) date provided for by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-540(c) meets the terms of this charter provision, then the city council shall select the date of the special election by resolution.
(Ga. Laws, 1997, Act No. 26 (House Bill No. 341); Ord. No. 362, §§ 1, 2, 8-8-11; Ord. No. 418 , § 2, 4-3-18)
Sec. 2.06. - City clerk.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city clerk, who shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the council; attending meetings of the council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered, and the title of each resolution or ordinance considered; preparing and certifying copies of official records in his office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the council or mayor. Salary of the city clerk and his term of office shall be as prescribed by the mayor and council.
Sec. 2.07. - City legislation.
Any action of the council, having a regulatory or penal effect, or required to be done by ordinance under this Act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of a majority of those council members present and voting shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance; provided however, that no resolution or ordinance may pass with less than three (3) affirmative votes. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 285, § 1, 7-6-04)
Sec. 2.08. - Qualifications for mayor and council members.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or council member, a person must meet the requirements of a qualified elector for members of the General Assembly as prescribed by state law, must have been a bona fide resident of the City of Clarkston for one (1) year next preceding the election in which he/she offers as a candidate, and must have no debts outstanding against him/her in favor of the city, county or state.
(Ord. No. 373, § 1, 7-2-13; Ord. No. 418 , § 9, 4-3-18)
State Law reference— Disqualification, O.C.G.A. §§ 21-2-504, 45-2-1; nominations, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-130.
Sec. 2.09. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ga. Laws, 2010, Act. No. 534 (House Bill 1507), § 3, repealed former § 2.09 in its entirety which pertained to eligible voters and voter registration.
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Sec. 3.01. - Organization.
The city manager shall organize the departments, agencies and staff of the city and designate the duties, responsibilities and positions of employees of the city in the manner that will provide for the most efficient and effective administration of city business and effectuate the policies established by the city council. ( Ord. No. 418 , § 10 4-3-18)
Sec. 3.02. - City manager; appointment; qualifications; compensation; removal; vacancy, powers; council interference.
(a)
The city council shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term and shall fix the city manager's compensation. The city manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of that person's executive and administrative qualifications.
(b)
The city manager is employed and terminable pursuant to the terms of a written employment contract to be entered into between the city and the city manager.
(c)
The following provisions shall be observed when the city manager is unavailable to perform the duties of the office:
(1)
Acting city manager. By letter filed with the city clerk, the city manager shall designate, subject to rejection by majority vote of the city council, a qualified city employee to exercise the powers and perform the duties of city manager during the city manager's temporary absence or physical or mental disability. During such absence or disability, the city council may revoke any such designation at any time and may at any time appoint any qualified employee of the city to serve as acting city manager.
(2)
Interim city manager. Whenever the city manager position is vacant, or it is anticipated that the permanent city manager will be unavailable or unable to perform the duties of city manager for more than ten (10) days, the city council shall appoint and enter into a contract for an indefinite duration with a qualified individual to serve as interim city manager until the city council appoints a city manager on a permanent basis or the existing permanent city manager is able to return to performing the duties of city manager. The mayor and councilmembers are prohibited from serving as city manager on a permanent, acting or interim basis.
(d)
The city manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of the city. The city manager shall be responsible to the city council for the administration of all city affairs placed in the city manager's charge by or under this charter. As the chief executive and administrative officer, the city manager shall:
(1)
Appoint and, when the city manager deems it necessary for the good of the city, suspend or remove all city employees and administrative officers the city manager appoints, except as otherwise provided by law or personnel ordinances adopted pursuant to this charter. The city manager may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to the city manager's direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's department, office, or agency;
(2)
Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, officers, and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law;
(3)
Attend all city council meetings, except for closed meetings held for the purposes of deliberating on the appointment, discipline, or removal of the city manager, and have the right to take part in discussion, but the city manager may not vote;
(4)
See that all laws, provisions of this charter, and acts of the city council, subject to enforcement by the city manager or by officers subject to the city manager's direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
(5)
Prepare and submit the annual operating budget and capital budget to the city council. The mayor and council members may submit recommendations prior to the city manager's submission of these budgets.
(6)
Submit to the city council and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year;
(7)
Make such other reports as the city council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to the city manager's direction and supervision;
(8)
Keep the city council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city, and make such recommendations to the city council concerning the affairs of the city as the city manager deems desirable; and
(9)
Establish personnel rules, ensure that all employees are aware of such rules and enforce such rules, all pursuant to Chapter 14 of the City Code.
(10)
Perform other such duties as are specified in this charter or as may be required by the city council.
(e)
Except for the purpose of official investigations, the mayor and members of the city council shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager solely through the city manager, and neither the mayor, the city council nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
(Ga. Laws, 2010, Act. No. 534 (House Bill 1507), § 4; Ord. No. 361, § 1, 7-5-11); ( Ord. No. 418 , §§ 11, 12 4-3-18; Ord. No. 429 , § 1, 12-4-18; Ord. No. 468 , § 1, 6-1-21)
Sec. 3.03. - City attorney.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a part; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; shall approve as to form and legality all contracts, deeds, ordinances and resolutions having the force of law. ( Ord. No. 418 , § 13, 4-3-18)
Sec. 3.04. - Municipal Court—Appointment of judge.
The City of Clarkston Municipal Court shall be presided over by a qualified judge appointed by the city council on an annual basis. Such judge shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed by the city council and may be removed by the city council pursuant to standards and procedures established by general law.
( Ord. No. 385, § 1, 1-6-15 ; Ord. No. 403, § 3, 1-3-17 )
State Law reference— Appointment of judge authorized notwithstanding local act, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2.
Sec. 3.05. - Convening of municipal court.
The municipal court shall be convened at such times as may be designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary by the municipal court judge to dispose of the business of the court or both. The court shall sit at Clarkston City Hall or at such other place within the City of Clarkston as may be designated by the city council from time to time by resolution.
( Ord. No. 385, § 1, 1-6-15 )
Sec. 3.06. - Municipal court jurisdiction and powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violators for crimes defined by state law where jurisdiction over the prosecution of such crimes is conveyed to the municipal court by general law and shall try and punish violators for violation of city ordinances. Where state law or the applicable city ordinance does not fix the punishment for an offense, the municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for six (6) months, or both.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence, or so near thereto as to affect its operation, for contempt.
(c)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to state or superior courts for violation of state law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizance to insure the presence of those charged with violations and may prescribe the conditions for forfeiture of the same.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to administer oaths and perform all other acts necessary or proper to the conduct of said court.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears that a state law has been violated.
(g)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer so authorized by this charter or by state law.
(h)
The municipal court shall have the authority to hear nuisance abatement actions and enforce Clarkston's nuisance abatement ordinance.
(Ord. No. 267a, § 1, 3-4-03; Ord. No. 385, § 1, 1-6-15 ; Ord. No. 403, § 4, 1-3-17 ; Ord. No. 468 , § 2, 6-1-21)
State Law reference— Jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-32-3, 36-32-5, 40-13-20, 40-13-21, 40-13-29; authority to bind over or commit, O.C.G.A. § 17-7-22.
Sec. 3.07. - Municipal court records.
The city manager shall appoint a municipal court clerk who shall serve at the pleasure of the city manager. The municipal court clerk shall be responsible for keeping such records of proceedings of the municipal court as shall be necessary to a full understanding of the charge, evidence and disposition of each case that comes before the municipal court.
( Ord. No. 385, § 1, 1-6-15 )
Sec. 3.08. - Certiorari to the municipal court.
Certiorari from the Superior Court of DeKalb County to the Municipal Court of Clarkston shall lie pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 5-4-1 et seq.
( Ord. No. 385, § 1, 1-6-15 )
Sec. 3.09. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 385, § 1, adopted Jan. 6, 2015 , repealed former § 3.09 in its entirety which pertained to procedure of the former mayor's court and derived from the charter enacted by Act. No. 597.
Sec. 3.10. - Other officers and employees.
The city manager may establish such offices and positions of employment within the city as may be necessary and appropriate for the effective and efficient administration of the city's affairs.
( Ord. No. 403, § 5, 1-3-17 )
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-2, 36-35-4.
Sec. 3.11. - Oath of office.
Before a person takes any office in the city government, he shall take before an officer of this state, authorized to administer oaths, the following oath or affirmation:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Georgia; that I will in all respects, observe the provisions of the charter and ordinances of the City of Clarkston, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of _______. [Here the oath taker may insert a solemn declaration invoking the deity or higher power of his/her choice, or elect not to do so.]"
( Ord. No. 468 , § 3, 6-1-21)
State Law reference— Required oath, O.C.G.A. §§ 45-3-9.
Sec. 3.12. - Political activity prohibited; unpaid leave of absence.
No officer or employee of the city, other than the mayor and council members, shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any city or other public office, unless such officer or employee shall first obtain, by resolution of the city council, a grant of unpaid leave status for the duration of such candidacy.
(Ord. No. 330, 6-3-08)
Sec. 3.13. - Personal financial interest.
Any city officer or employee who has a substantial financial interest, direct or indirect or by reason of ownership of stock in any corporation, in any contract with the city or in the sale of any land, material, supplies or services to the city or to a contractor supplying the city shall make known that interest and shall refrain from voting upon or otherwise participating in his capacity as a city officer or employee in the making of such sale or in the making or performance of such contract. Any city officer or employee who wilfully conceals such a substantial financial interest or wilfully violates the requirements of this section shall be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall forfeit his office or position. Violation of this section with the knowledge express or implied of the person or corporation contracting with or making a sale to the city shall render the contract or sale voidable by the mayor or the city council.
State Law reference— Abuse of public office, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-1 et seq.; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. §§ 45-10-1, 45-10-2.
Sec. 3.14. - City planning and renewal.
The council may by ordinance establish a planning department, appoint a director, planning board, and board of adjustments to advise, formulate and effect a comprehensive plan and modifications thereof for the physical development of the city, and by ordinance adopt land use and development regulations, including but not limited to an official map, zoning and subdivision regulations, and provide for redevelopment, rehabilitation, conservation and renewal programs for: (1) the alleviation or prevention of slums, obsolescence, blight or other conditions of deterioration, and (2) the achievement of the most appropriate use of land as now or hereafter may be provided by the general laws of Georgia.
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-1 et seq.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Public revenue, O.C.G.A. title. 48; investment, O.C.G.A. § 36-83-1 et seq.

Sec. 4.01. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of January and shall end on the thirty-first day of December of each year, but a different fiscal year may be fixed by ordinance for the entire city government or for any utility.
Sec. 4.02. - City manager to submit annual budget, including a budget message; procedures for appropriation amendments.
(1)
On or before a date fixed by the city council, but not later than forty-five (45) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed budget for the next fiscal year, showing separately for the general fund, each utility, and each other fund the following: (i) revenues and expenditures during the preceding fiscal year, (ii) appropriations and estimated revenues and expenditures for the current fiscal year, (iii) estimated revenues and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year, (iv) a comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the preceding year and estimated assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year, and (v) such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the city manager or requested by the city council.
(2)
Budget message. The city manager's message shall explain the budget both in fiscal terms and in terms of the work programs. It shall outline the proposed financial policies of the city for the ensuing fiscal year, describe the important features of the budget, indicate any major changes from the current year in fiscal policies, expenditures, and revenues together with the reasons for such changes, summarize the city's debt position and include such other material as the city manager deems desirable.
(3)
Amendments after adoption.
(a)
Supplemental appropriations. If during the fiscal year the city manager certifies that there are available for appropriation revenues in excess of those estimated in the budget, the city council by ordinance may make supplemental appropriations for the year up to the amount of such excess.
(b)
Emergency appropriations. To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or the public peace, the city council may make emergency appropriations. Such appropriations may be made by emergency ordinance. To the extent that there are no available unappropriated revenues to meet such appropriations, the city council may by such emergency ordinance authorize the issuance of emergency notes which may be renewed from time to time, but the emergency notes and renewals of any fiscal year shall be paid not later than the last day of the fiscal year next succeeding that in which the emergency appropriation was made.
(c)
Reduction of appropriations. If at any time during the fiscal year it appears probable to the city manager that the revenues available will be insufficient to meet the amount appropriated, the city manager shall report to city council without delay, indicating the estimated amount of the deficit, any remedial action taken by the city manager and recommendations as to any other steps to be taken. The city council shall then take such further action as it deems necessary to prevent or minimize any deficit, and for that purpose it may by ordinance reduce one or more appropriations.
(d)
Transfer of appropriations. At any time during the fiscal year the city manager may transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance among programs within a department, office or agency and, upon written request by the city manager the city council may by ordinance transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance from one department, office or agency to another.
(e)
Limitations; effective date. No appropriation for debt service may be reduced or transferred, and no appropriation may be reduced below any amount required by law to be appropriated, or by more than the amount of the unencumbered balance thereof. The supplemental and emergency appropriations, and reduction or transfer of appropriations authorized by this section may be made effective immediately upon adoption.
( Ord. No. 403, § 6, 1-3-17 ; Ord. No. 468 , § 4, 6-1-21)
Sec. 4.03. - Action by council on budget.
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year the council shall adopt an appropriate [3] ordinance, based on the city manager's budget, with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department and agency. The council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property or lives of the inhabitants of the city; providing the council unanimously agrees that there is such an emergency. If conditions prevent the adoption of an appropriation ordinance, before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment as provided by an ordinance specifically passed for such purpose.
( Ord. No. 403, § 7, 1-3-17 )
Cross reference— Authority to make appropriations, § 1.03(d).
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Word "appropriate" apparently a typographical error, the word "appropriation" probably being intended.

Sec. 4.04. - Sale of city property.
The city council may authorize the sale of any city property which is deemed obsolete, surplus or unusable. Such sale shall be accomplished pursuant to the procedures set forth in general law for the sale of municipal property.
( Ord. No. 403, § 8, 1-3-17 )
State Law reference— Requirements as to sale of city property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6.
Sec. 4.05. - Annual audit.
The city council shall engage, pursuant to an annual contract, a certified public accountant or accounting firm to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city in compliance with the requirements of State general law. A report setting forth the findings of such annual audit shall be filed with the city clerk and presented to the mayor, council members and city manager at a time established by the contract by which the auditor is engaged. The audit shall be made available to the public.
( Ord. No. 468 , § 5, 6-1-21)
State Law reference— Uniform standards of audit, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-8.
Sec. 4.06. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes shall be subject to a property tax levied by the city. All such taxable property shall be appraised and assessed in accordance with general law and property owners shall have a right to appeal tax assessments as provided for by general law.
(Ord. No. 403, § 9, 1-3-17)
Cross reference— Taxing authority, § 1.03(a), (b).
State Law reference— Municipal taxation, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-64-10, 48-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 4.07. - Tax levy.
The city council shall make a tax levy by establishing an annual millage rate as provided for by general law.
( Ord. No. 403, § 10, 1-3-17 )
Sec. 4.08. - Tax due date and tax bills.
The due date of property taxes shall be fixed by ordinance. The city, or its designee, shall send tax bills to taxpayers, showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates, and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent forty-five (45) days after a due date; at which time a penalty not to exceed ten (10) percent in additional to a fi. fa. charge shall be added and thereafter such taxes shall be subject to interest at the rate of twelve (12) percent per annum, from the due date until paid. On and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court of record.
The city clerk is directed to post notice of this change in the legal organ of DeKalb County, Georgia once a week for three (3) weeks prior to the April meeting of the city council. This ordinance amending the Charter of the City of Clarkston shall become effective upon passage at two (2) regular consecutive meetings of the city council and upon providing notice of this change to the Clerk of the Superior Court of DeKalb County, Georgia and to the Secretary of State of the State of Georgia as provided by law. All delinquent taxes incurred prior to passage of this amendment shall be governed by prior law. This amendment shall apply prospectively only.
(Ord. No. 211, 5-6-97)
Sec. 4.09. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by distress warrants issued by the mayor for the sale of goods and chattels, which are to be executed by any police officer of the city under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from a justice of the peace, or by the city attorney acting in accordance with general laws providing for the collection of delinquent city or county taxes, or by any two (2) or more of the foregoing methods, and by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of the first day of January of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for Federal, State or County taxes.
Sec. 4.10. - Transfer of executions [for assessments].
The marshal or collecting officer of the City of Clarkston shall be authorized to transfer and assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for street, sewer or any other assessment in the same manner, upon the same terms, and to the same effect, and thereby vest the purchaser or transferer with the same rights as in cases of sales or transfers of tax fi. fas. as now provided by law; and all sales of property hereafter made under execution in behalf of the city for the collection of street, sewer and other assessments, the owner or owners, as the case may be, are authorized to redeem same within the same time and on compliance with the same terms and payment of the same premium, interest and costs, as in cases of redemption of property where sold under tax fi. fa., as the same now exists, or as may from time to time be provided by law.
Sec. 4.11. - Special assessments.
The city may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent thirty (30) days after their due dates, shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of ten (10) percent and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of seven (7) percent per annum from due date until paid. A lien shall exist the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this article for city property taxes.
ARTICLE V. - MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 5.01—5.03. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 403, § 11, adopted Jan. 3, 2017, repealed former §§ 5.01—5.03 in their entirety. Former § 5.01 pertained to restrictions on actions for damages against city, former § 5.02 pertained to the use of general laws of the state, and § 5.03 pertained to a general penalty for violations of this Act. These former sections derived from the 1967 Charter, Act. No. 597 of the Ga. Laws.
Sec. 5.04. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof, of this Act shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this Act, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part or parts held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this Act that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof, be enacted separately and independently of each other.
Sec. 5.05. - Specific repealer.
An Act creating a new charter for the City of Clarkston in the County of DeKalb, approved August 12, 1914 (Ga. L. 1914, p. 578—615) is hereby repealed in its entirety, and all amendatory Acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety.
Sec. 5.06. - Effective date.
This Act shall be effective on and after the first day of May, 1967.
Sec. 5.07. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
