Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Consolidation of offices—City clerk, water department superintendent, tax collector, city accountant and superintendent of public works.
For the proper and expedient administration of the affairs and government of same, and to provide these services to all of the citizens at the least possible financial cost, and in compliance with the charter, the city council hereby establishes and consolidates the positions of superintendent of the water department, city clerk, tax collector, city accountant, and superintendent of public works.
(Ord. No. 7, § 1, 1-8-74; Ord. No. 7 Amd. 3, § 1, 3-2-82; Ord. No. 7 Amd. 4, § 1, 9-3-85)
Charter reference— See §§ 2.16(c), 3.10, 3.20, 3.21, 3.22, 3.24.
Sec. 2-2. - Same—Remuneration of officer.
The city council hereby declares the remuneration for these consolidated offices shall be set from time to time by council as circumstances require and finances permit.
(Ord. No. 7, § 2, 1-8-74; Ord. of 3-5-74, § 1; Ord. of 1-7-75, § 1; Ord. No. 7 Amd. 3, § 2, 3-2-82)
Sec. 2-3. - Same—Scope of duties.
The consolidation shall involve the performance of those duties regularly and normally designated to each such position.
(Ord. No. 7, §§ 3, 7, 1-8-74)
Sec. 2-4. - Same—Term of office.
The appointment and the term of office for these consolidated positions shall coincide with that of the elected officials of the city.
(Ord. No. 7, § 8, 1-8-74)
Sec. 2-5. - Same—Duties of city clerk.
The city clerk shall keep an accurate record of the financial income and expenditures of all the city finances and provide an accounting of the financial status of all departments at each of the regular meetings of the council, or at any special meeting if same shall be requested; and all records shall be open for examination by the mayor and council at any time.
(Ord. No. 7, § 4, 1-8-74; Ord. No. 7 Amd. 5, § I, 4-2-2013)
Sec. 2-5.1. - Insurance in lieu of bond.
(a)
The city shall purchase and maintain a commercial government crime insurance policy or employee dishonesty policy to provide coverage on the officers and employees of the City of Lake Park in lieu of a bond or master bond.
(b)
Conditions. The form of such an insurance policy shall meet the following minimum for standards:
(1)
The amount shall not be in amount less than $1,000,000.00.
(2)
The insurance policy shall be issued by a company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia.
(3)
The insurance policy shall be issued by a company with a Best's rating of no less than A-.
(4)
The insurance policy shall include "faithful performance" coverage and shall encompass claims for forgery or alteration; theft, disappearance, or destruction; robbery and safe burglary; public employee dishonesty; computer fraud; and fund transfer fraud.
(5)
The policy may be issued on an annual or longer basis.
(6)
The form of the policy shall be subject to approval by the city attorney.
(c)
City to pay premium. The city shall pay the premium for each insurance policy required for an officer or employee.
(Ord. No. 7 Amd. 5, § II, 4-2-2013)
Sec. 2-6. - Clerk assistant.
The clerk shall have the authority to employ a qualified assistant to assist in any or all of the duties of the office if deemed necessary and advisable and in keeping with the performance and expediency of the duties involved. Reimbursement to the clerk for the employment of an assistant in any or all of the consolidated positions shall be made only by action of the governing body.
(Ord. No. 7, § 5, 1-8-74)
Sec. 2-7. - Water department; established, superintendent.
There shall be a department of the city known as the water department and there shall be a superintendent of said water department. The superintendent shall be such person as the mayor and council shall from time to time employ for such position. The superintendent shall have jurisdiction over the operation of the water department and over all persons employed in said department who are not under the direct jurisdiction of the mayor and council or some other officer. The superintendent shall be under the direct supervision and directly accountable to the mayor and council. The superintendent shall be paid such salary as may be fixed by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 21, §§ 1, 2, 2-5-74)
Cross reference— Duties of superintendent, § 14-20 et seq.
Sec. 2-8. - Independent audit.
The city council shall have the authority to order a general, partial, or complete audit of any or all of the financial departments of the city by an outside accountant at any time if said council shall have reason or justification for such action.
(Ord. No. 7, § 6, 1-8-74)
State Law reference— Audits of financial affairs and transactions, OCGA §§ 36-60-8, 36-81-7.
Sec. 2-9. - Municipal court—Days and time of sessions.
(a)
Pursuant to the charter, the council hereby declares the official meeting of the municipal court shall be held on Tuesday of each week if current dockets or outstanding and necessary business shall be on hand and in order.
(b)
The official time for the meeting of the municipal court shall be 6:00 p.m.
(c)
The municipal court shall be called at any other such time as circumstances shall necessitate.
(Ord. No. 6, §§ 1, 2, 4, 1-8-74)
Charter reference— Convening, § 4.12.
State Law reference— Certiorari to superior court, OCGA § 5-4-3; powers of courts generally, OCGA § 15-1-3; municipal courts, OCGA § 36-32-1 et seq.; authority of municipal corporations to provide for forfeiture of appearance bonds, OCGA § 36-32-4; authorization and procedure for abatement of nuisances in cities, OCGA § 41-2-5.
Sec. 2-10. - Same—Rules.
The official procedure for the conduct of the municipal court shall be in accordance with that set forth in the charter, and as adopted by the council.
(Ord. No. 6, § 3, 1-8-74)
Charter reference— Rules of court as prescribed, § 4.15.
Secs. 2-11—2-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL[2]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-21. - Compensation.
(a)
Each council member shall receive compensation in such amounts as may be set by the city council from time to time, subject to the requirements of OCGA § 36-35-4.
(Res. of 7-1-86)
Sec. 2-22. - Terms of office.
The term of office of the city council and mayor shall be defined as the second Tuesday after the election and until the city council and mayor are sworn in for duty to the city.
(Res. of 7-1-86)
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS

Sec. 2-23. - Meeting day, place and time.
The regular meetings of the city council shall be held on the first Tuesday of each month, at the city hall, at the hour of 7:30 p.m. The organizational meeting, after elections in even years, shall be held on the second Tuesday in February, at the hour of 7:30 p.m.
(Ord. No. 36, § 1, 3-2-82; Ord. No. 42, § 1, 3-17-86)
Charter reference— Times and place as prescribed by ordinance, § 2.31.
Sec. 2-24. - Acting presiding officer.
In the absence of the mayor and mayor pro tem, the council shall elect a presiding officer for that meeting, who shall exercise all the powers of the mayor during that meeting.
Sec. 2-24.1. - Opening invocation.
(a)
Intent. It shall be the policy of the city council that the procedures stated in this rule concerning opening invocation shall govern all official meetings of the city council and that the members of the city council and city staff shall adhere to these rules. These policies and procedures are not intended, shall not be implemented, and shall not be construed in any way to affiliate the city council or the city with, nor express a preference for or against any faith, belief, opinion, religion, or denomination. Rather, these policies and procedures are intended to acknowledge and express the city council's respect for the diversity of religious denominations and faiths represented and practiced among the citizens of the city.
(b)
Timing. After the call to order of all official meetings of the city council an opening invocation as described herein shall occur. The opening invocation will occur and be completed during the opening, ceremonial portion of the city council meeting and shall in no event occur, or be construed to occur, during the policymaking or legislative portions of the city council meeting. Persons delivering the invocation shall limit their remarks to no more than two minutes.
(c)
Speaker selection. The opportunity to give the opening invocation shall be open to all, regardless of religious affiliation or non-affiliation. The council shall publish on the city website an invitation to volunteers interested in delivering the invocation. The respondents to the invitation shall be scheduled on a first-come, first-serve basis to deliver the invocation. All reasonable efforts shall be made to ensure that a variety of invocation speakers are scheduled for city council meetings. Notwithstanding the preceding, no invocation speaker shall be scheduled to offer an invocation at consecutive meetings of the city council, or at more than three city council meetings in any calendar year. The volunteer delivering the invocation shall not receive compensation from the city for his/her participation or services.
(d)
No member of the city council, city employee or staff shall engage in any prior inquiry, review, or involvement in, the content of any invocation to be offered by an invocation speaker. However, consistent with U.S. Supreme Court precedent, invocation speakers are hereby advised that the invocation should not denigrate nonbelievers or religious minorities; threaten damnation; or preach conversion. Statements reflecting ideals relating to peace and security for the nation, safety of our armed forces, police, firefighters and emergency service personnel, wisdom for the lawmakers, and justice for the people are encouraged.
(e)
The city clerk may add the name and affiliated organization of the selected invocation speaker for a particular meeting to the city council agenda next to the "invocation" item.
(f)
In addition to volunteers submitting requests, the city council may invite religious leaders, chaplains, ministers, rabbis or similar [leaders] of congregations located within the jurisdictional limits of the city and Lowndes County to conduct the opening invocation, keeping in mind the objective of including a variety of speakers in the giving of the invocation.
(g)
Conduct of opening invocation. Persons in attendance at the city council meeting are invited to stand during the opening invocation and pledge of allegiance. However, such invitation shall not be construed as a demand, order, or any other type of command. Such invitation constitutes a general invitation that a person in attendance may stand if he/she wishes to do so for such observances.
(h)
Agenda disclaimer. The following statement shall be placed at the bottom of city council meeting agendas:
Any invocation that is offered before the official start of the city council meeting shall be the voluntary offering of a private person, to and for the benefit of the city council. The views or beliefs expressed by the invocation speaker have not been previously reviewed or approved by the city council or the city staff, and the city is not allowed by law to endorse the religious beliefs or views of this, or any other speaker. Persons in attendance at the city council meeting are invited to stand during the opening invocation and pledge of allegiance. However, such invitation shall not be construed as a demand, order, or any other type of command. No person in attendance at the meeting shall be required to participate in any opening invocation that is offered. A person may exit the city council chambers and return upon completion of the opening invocation if a person does not wish to participate in or witness the opening invocation.
(Ord. No. 110, § 1, 8-4-2015)
Sec. 2-25. - Order of business.
Unless otherwise provided in a previously prepared agenda, the following order of business shall be observed:
(1)
Reading the minutes.
(2)
Petitions and communications.
(3)
Report of special committees.
(4)
Report of officers.
(5)
Resolutions, orders and ordinances.
(6)
Accounts and salaries.
(7)
Unfinished business.
(8)
Trial of appeals.
Sec. 2-26. - Speaking rules for members.
When any councilman is about to speak in debate or deliver any matter to the council, he shall rise from his seat and respectfully address himself to the presiding officer. He shall be confined to the matter in debate and shall not speak more than twice on any subject, nor more than once until every member choosing to speak shall have spoken. If any member, in speaking or otherwise, transgresses the rules of the council, the mayor shall call him to order, in which case the member so called to order shall sit down, unless permitted to explain. The council shall, if appealed to, decide, and if the decision of the council is not appealed to, the delinquent shall be reproved for the first offense, and for the second offense he shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $10.00. For the third offense, he may be expelled from the council chamber.
Sec. 2-27. - Silence to be preserved by nonspeaking members.
The members of council at all council meetings shall refrain from private conversation, and they shall preserve silence until a speaking member shall have taken his seat.
Sec. 2-28. - Addressing members through the chair.
No member of the council shall address the council or interrogate a member who is speaking except through the chair.
Sec. 2-29. - Passing between chair and member speaking; leaving seat before adjournment.
No member or other person shall pass between the chair and a member of council while he is speaking, nor shall any member of council at the time of adjournment leave his seat until the mayor shall announce the council adjourned.
Sec. 2-30. - Calling for division of question.
Any councilman may call for a division of the question of a subject which the sense thereof will admit.
Sec. 2-31. - Proper motions when subject under consideration.
When a subject is before the council for consideration, no motion shall be received but to adjourn, to lay on the table, for the previous question, to postpone indefinitely, to postpone to a day certain, to commit or to amend, which several motions shall have precedence in the order they stand here arranged. No motion for adjournment shall be debatable, and the motion for adjournment for the second time shall be out of order until further progress has been made in the business of the council.
Sec. 2-32. - Resolutions and motions to amend; record of voting.
All resolutions and all motions to amend any matter before the council shall be in writing. No motion to lay an amendment on the table shall be in order. The yeas and nays on any question shall, at the desire of any one councilman, be entered on the record, and the clerk shall also enter on the record the names of those councilmen not voting and voting.
Sec. 2-33. - Communications through chair; interruption of proceedings.
When a petition, communication or message of any kind shall be sent to the council, it shall be respectfully communicated to the chair by the person through whom it may be sent, and all such petitions, communications or messages shall be numbered as they are received, and taken up and disposed of in the order they are received, unless otherwise ordered by a majority of the council.
No person in the chamber shall address the council without first having been recognized by the presiding officer, nor shall any person interrupt the proceedings of the council in attempting to be recognized or otherwise.
Sec. 2-34. - Motion to reconsider.
When the minutes of the preceding meeting of the council shall be read, it shall be within the power of any member to move for a reconsideration of any matter therein contained, provided such member shall notify the council of his intention to move such reconsideration at any time before the minutes are confirmed.
Sec. 2-35. - Reconsidered matters to foot of agenda.
Ordinances, resolutions or other matters reconsidered shall take their place at the foot of all other business before the council for consideration.
Sec. 2-36. - Matter in possession of council.
After an ordinance, resolution, motion or other matter is introduced before the council and stated by the mayor or read by the clerk, it shall be deemed to be in the possession of the council, but may be withdrawn at any time before a decision thereon by consent of the council.
Sec. 2-37. - Protest against proceeding.
Any councilman may enter a protest against any proceeding of council.
Sec. 2-38. - Rules governing introduction, passage, etc., of measures.
The rules contained in the charter shall apply to the introduction, passage, amendment, or repeal of ordinances of the city.
Charter reference—See § 2.34 et seq.
Sec. 2-39. - Questions put first.
On all questions before the council, the last amendment, the most distant day, and the largest sum shall be put first.
Sec. 2-40. - Calling up matter from table.
A simple majority may call up, for consideration, any matter ordered to lie on the table.
Sec. 2-41. - No debate during reading of yeas and nays.
During the reading of yeas and nays on any question, no debate shall be had.
Sec. 2-42. - Requiring motion in writing; deciding matters not otherwise provided.
The council may require any motion to be put in writing. On all questions, not otherwise provided in these rules, a majority vote of council may decide.
Sec. 2-43. - Motion to adjourn always in order.
A motion to adjourn shall always be in order.
Sec. 2-44. - Trials to be closed.
In all trials of persons or personnel questions before the council, the chamber shall be closed after the evidence and argument are closed, until the council is ready to render a decision.
Sec. 2-45. - Meetings open; exceptions.
All meetings of the council shall be in public, except where the public good will be manifestly jeopardized, when the council shall, by unanimous vote, sit with closed doors; provided there shall be compliance with OCGA § 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-46. - Calling ordinances and resolutions.
All ordinances and resolutions shall be called in the order in which they stand on the minutes, and before reading any ordinance or resolution the second time, the clerk shall distinctly state its number and the name of the councilman by whom introduced.
Sec. 2-47. - Parliamentary rules.
When any question arises which is not provided for in the rules contained in this article, the same, as far as practicable, shall be controlled by Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised.
Sec. 2-48. - Changing rules.
No change of, or addition to, these rules shall be made, unless such proposed change or addition is first referred to a committee on rules, and reported back to the council, and shall then require a majority vote of council for adoption.
Sec. 2-49. - Suspending rules; changing order of business.
The rules of the council shall in no case be suspended, nor shall the order of business be changed, except by a vote of a majority of the council.
Sec. 2-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CODE OF ETHICS
Subdivision 1. - General Provisions

Sec. 2-51. - Declaration of policy.
It is essential to the proper administration and operation of the City of Lake Park that the members of its governing authority be, and give the appearance of being, independent and impartial; that public office not be used for private gain; and that there be public confidence in the integrity of the governing authority. The governing authority finds that the public interest requires that they protect against such conflicts of interest by establishing appropriate ethical standards with respect to the conduct of the members of the governing authority in situations where a conflict may exist.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-52. - Definitions.
As used in this division, the term:
City council member shall be any person who is an elected city official, including the mayor, of the City of Lake Park.
Government or city shall be construed to mean the City of Lake Park, Georgia government.
Interest means any direct pecuniary benefit, which is not a remote interest, held by or accruing to a member of the governing authority as a result of a contract or transaction that is or may be the subject of an official act or action by or with the city. A member of the governing authority shall be deemed to have an interest in transactions involving:
(1)
Any person in the member's immediate family;
(2)
Any person with whom a contractual relationship exists whereby the member may receive any payment or other benefits unless the member is receiving a benefit for goods and services in the normal course of business for which the member has paid a commercially reasonable rate;
(3)
Any business in which the member is a director, officer, employee, agent, or shareholder, except as otherwise provided herein; or
(4)
Any person of whom the member is a creditor, whether secured or unsecured.
Governing authority or member of the governing authority means the mayor or any council member of the city and any member appointed to any board or commission of the city (hereinafter sometimes referred to as "member" or "members").
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-53. - Intent.
It is the intent of this section that members of the governing authority avoid any action whether or not specifically prohibited which might result in, or create the appearance of the following:
(1)
Using public office for private gain;
(2)
Impeding government efficiency or economy; or
(3)
Affecting adversely the confidence of the public in the integrity of the government.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-54. - Financial interests of members.
Members of the governing authority may not:
(1)
Have direct or indirect financial interests that conflict substantially with their responsibilities and duties as government servants; or
(2)
Engage in, directly or indirectly, financial transactions as a result of, or primarily relying upon, information obtained from their office.
Aside from these restrictions, members are free to engage in lawful financial transactions to the same extent as private citizens.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-55. - Use of public property.
A member of the governing authority shall not use government property of any kind for other than officially approved activities, nor shall he or she direct employees to use such property for these purposes.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-56. - Use of confidential information.
A member shall not directly or indirectly, make use of, or permit others to make use of, for the purpose of furthering a private interest, official information not made available to the general public.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-57. - Disclosure of information by members of the governing authority.
As custodians of taxpayer funds, all elected officials will disclose in a public forum any and all possible conflicts pertaining to personal credit problems, ongoing or past legal issues and any business or civic relationships which could give the appearance of influence in their decisions regarding expenditure of city funds, contractual negotiations and/or obligations.
Members shall not knowingly or willfully make or provide false statements or information on which the governing authority, city staff or other agencies would reasonably be expected to rely to establish policy or make important decisions. A member violates this rule if he/she knows the statement or information is untrue, or the person has knowledge that would lead a reasonable person of ordinary prudence to conclude that the statement is untrue.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-58. - Coercion by members.
A member of the governing authority shall not use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, another person to provide any financial benefit to him or persons within his immediate family, or those with whom a member has business or financial ties.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-59. - Voting in matters of personal interest.
A member shall disqualify himself from participating in any official act or vote, and any debate thereon, of the governing authority which results or could result in a pecuniary benefit to the member or to a business or activity in which he has an interest, when such benefit is not available to the public at large.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-60. - Unauthorized purchases.
A member shall not order any goods and services for the City of Lake Park without prior official authorization for such expenditure.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-61. - Meetings of the council.
Meetings of the council shall be conducted in accordance with the OCGA Title 50, Chapter 14, as amended, and Title 36, Chapter 80, Section 1.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-62. - City attorneys used for private business.
A member of the governing authority shall not use the attorney or attorneys who are under retainer by the City of Lake Park for personal or private business without paying just compensation.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-63. - Unauthorized use of public employees.
A member shall not use his superior position to request or require an employee to:
(1)
Do clerical work on behalf of his family, business, social, church or fraternal interests;
(2)
Purchase goods and services to be used for personal, business, or political purposes; and
(3)
Work for him personally without offering just compensation.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-64. - Travel expenses.
A member shall not draw per diem or expense monies from the City of Lake Park to attend a seminar, convention, or conference and then fail to attend the seminar, convention, or conference without refunding the pro-rata unused per diem or expense monies to the city.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Subdivision 2. - Administration

Sec. 2-65. - Ethics committee.
An ethics committee shall be established in the following manner: The ethics committee shall consist of three persons, one appointed by the mayor, one appointed by the council, and the third member shall be appointed by the mayor and council. All members of the ethics committee shall serve a two-year term. The members of the ethics committee shall serve without compensation. Each member of the committee shall have been a resident of the city for at least one year immediately preceding the date of taking office and shall remain a resident of the city while serving as a committee member. No person shall serve as an ethics committee member if the person has, or has had within the preceding two-year period, any interest in any contract, transaction, or official action of the city.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-66. - Receipt of complaints.
(a)
"Complaint" means a written sworn statement filed with the ethics committee containing specific allegations of misconduct by a member; provided, however, in order for the ethics committee to be able to act on a complaint, the complaint must be filed within six months of the date the complaining party knew or should reasonably have known of the alleged misconduct.
(b)
Upon receipt of a written complaint, the ethics committee shall review it to determine whether the complaint is unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fails to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Lake Park City Council. The city attorney shall assist the ethics committee in its review and investigation of the complaint as requested by the committee. The ethics committee shall be empowered to collect evidence and information concerning any complaint and to add the findings and results of its investigations to the file containing such complaint.
(c)
Upon completion of its investigation of a complaint, the ethics committee shall be empowered to dismiss those complaints which are unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or which fail to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Lake Park City Council; provided, however, that a rejection of such complaint by the ethics committee shall not deprive the complaining party of any action he might otherwise have at law or in equity against the respondent government servant.
(d)
The ethics committee shall be empowered to conduct probable cause investigations, to subpoena witnesses, to take evidence and hold hearings where provided for in the rules.
(e)
The ethics committee shall be empowered to adopt forms for formal complaints, subpoenas, notices, applications for reinstatement and any other written instruments necessary or desirable under these rules.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-67. - Service of complaint; hearings and disposition of complaints.
The ethics committee as appointed herein set forth shall cause the complaint to be served on the member of the governing authority charged as soon as practicable after receipt. Service may be by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested. Unless the complaint is dismissed, a hearing shall be held within 60 days after filing of the complaint or as soon thereafter as reasonably possible. The ethics committee shall conduct the hearing in accordance with the procedures and regulations it establishes but, in all circumstances, the hearing shall include the taking of testimony, the right to representation by counsel, and the right to call witnesses on behalf of the accused and to cross-examination of adverse witnesses. The decision of the ethics committee shall be rendered to mayor and council within five days after completion of the hearing.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-68. - Penalty and member rights.
(a)
Any member of the governing authority who knowingly violates any provision of the code of ethics provided in this division shall be subject to public reprimand or censure by the governing authority of the city. Imposition of penalties under this division shall not preclude prosecution and/or imposition of such other penalties as may be authorized under the City Charter, state or federal law.
(b)
At any hearing held by the ethics committee, the member of the governing authority who is the subject of inquiry shall have the right to written notice of the allegations at least ten business days before a hearing, to be represented by counsel, to hear and examine the evidence and witnesses and to present evidence and witnesses in opposition or in extenuation.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-69. - Appeals.
(a)
Any member of the governing authority adversely affected by a final action by the city council based on the findings of the ethics committee may obtain judicial review of such decision as provided in this section.
(b)
An action for judicial review may be commenced by filing an application for a writ of certiorari in the Superior Court of Lowndes County within 30 days after any final action by the city council based on the decision of the ethics committee. The filing of such application shall act as supersedeas. The review by the superior court shall be limited to an inquiry of whether there was any evidence before the city council which supported the decision of the council, provided, however, that no action of the city council refusing or failing to take action pursuant to this code of ethics shall be reviewable by the superior court.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-70. - Additional regulations.
This division shall be cumulative to any other division, resolution or act now existing.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Subdivision 3. - Acceptance of Gifts and Conflict of Interest

Sec. 2-71. - Acceptance of gifts, gratuities, special privileges.
Members of the governing authority shall not solicit or accept directly or indirectly anything of value from any person, corporation, or group which:
(1)
Has, or is seeking to obtain contractual or other business or financial relationships with the City of Lake Park;
(2)
In exchange for the thing of value seeks to have a member exercise a matter of discretion in his or her favor;
(3)
In exchange for the thing of value seeks to have interests, which may be affected by the performance or nonperformance of the official duty of the member.
This section shall not apply to campaign contributions, which shall be reported in accordance with Georgia laws.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-72. - Proprietorship of creations.
All plans, designs, reports, specifications, drawings, devices, inventions, and other items produced or created by members of the governing authority during their time in office or through the use of city facilities or equipment or at the request of the city shall be and become the sole property of the City of Lake Park.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-73. - Confidential information.
Members of the governing authority shall not disclose confidential information gained by reason of their official position, nor shall they otherwise use such information for their personal gain or benefit.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-74. - Conflict of interest.
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or political entity to which this charter applies shall knowingly engage in any business or transaction or have a financial or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his official duties or which would tend to impair his independence of judgment or action in the performance of his official duties.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Sec. 2-75. - Political activity.
Members of the governing authority shall not utilize any city equipment or vehicles in support of any political campaign.
(Ord. No. 89, 10-7-08)
Secs. 2-76—2-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PLANNING COMMISSION[3]

Sec. 2-81. - Continuation of the Greater Lowndes Planning Commission.
The Greater Lowndes Planning Commission, herein referred to as the commission, shall be continued as herein provided. All actions heretofore made by the commission as created in 1996 are hereby ratified and confirmed. Any unfinished business of the commission as created in 1996 shall be assumed and continued by the commission as continued by this joint ordinance.
(Ord. No. 93, § 1, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-82. - Membership.
The commission shall consist of no more than 11 members, herein referred to as commission members; three appointed by Lowndes County, four appointed by the City of Valdosta, one appointed by the City of Hahira, one appointed by the City of Remerton, one appointed by the City of Lake Park, and one appointed by the City of Dasher. The ten currently active commission members shall continue to serve as members of the commission. In addition, the City of Remerton shall appoint one commission member. If any government fails to confirm their intention to fill their designated appointment(s) within 60 days of adoption of the ordinance, that position(s) shall be eliminated.
(Ord. No. 93, § 2, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-83. - Terms.
The ten currently active commission members shall serve terms to expire as follows:
EXPAND
Lowndes County Appointees
Anthony Payton December 31, 2009
Tommy Willis December 31, 2010
Bill Slaughter December 31, 2012
Valdosta Appointees
Jennifer Powell December 31, 2013
Chip Wildes December 31, 2010
Johnny P. Ball, III December 31, 2009
Gerald L. McClendon December 31, 2012
Hahira Appointee
John Bailey December 31, 2012
Lake Park Appointee
Ken Sherrill December 31, 2011
Dasher Appointee
W.G. Walker, Jr. December 31, 2011
  The term of the commission member appointed by the City of Remerton shall begin upon appointment and end December 31, 2013. Thereafter, all commission members shall be appointed for terms of five years to begin January 1 and end December 31. Any commission member may be appointed to succeed himself or herself. If at the end of any term of any commission member a successor thereto has not been appointed, the commission member whose term has expired shall continue to serve as a commission member until his or her successor is appointed; provided, however, the term of any such successor shall be deemed to begin on the day following the expired term of the commission member then holding office.
(Ord. No. 93, § 3, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-84. - Eligibility.
Each commission member shall be a resident of Lowndes County at the time of his or her appointment and shall remain a resident of Lowndes County in order to continue serving as a commission member. It is recommended that appointees to the commission live within the jurisdictional boundaries of the appointing government. With exception of current commission members, for their current terms, commission members shall hold no other elected office or an appointed office for which compensation is received.
(Ord. No. 93, § 4, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-85. - Vacancy.
Any vacancy on the commission shall be filled by the member government that appointed the commission member whose resignation or ineligibility resulted in such vacancy. The commission member so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. No. 93, § 5, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-86. - Officers, meetings, rules.
The commission shall elect from its members a chairman, to serve for a term of one calendar year and until a successor is elected, and a vice-chairman, to serve for a term of one calendar year and until a successor is elected. The chairman and vice-chairman may succeed themselves by re-appointment by the commission. The commission shall meet once a month at the call of the chairman except as otherwise determined by the commission and at such other times as the chairman or a majority of commission members shall determine. The commission shall adopt rules and procedures for the conduct of its meetings and the transaction of its business and shall cause minutes of its meetings and records of its actions to be kept, which minutes and records shall be public records within the meaning of Georgia law.
(Ord. No. 93, § 6, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-87. - Duties and responsibilities.
The duties and responsibilities of the commission shall be:
(1)
To provide each member government advice and recommendations upon proposed amendments to its respective zoning ordinance, subdivision regulations, and other land use ordinances and regulations, as requested by such member government;
(2)
To provide each member government advice and recommendations upon its respective local comprehensive plan, as requested by such member government; and
(3)
To provide each member government advice and recommendations on such other matters as requested from time to time by such member government.
(Ord. No. 93, § 7, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-88. - Training.
Each commission member shall attend one training session within the first year of his or her appointment. Additionally, each member shall attend at least one training session on a bi-annual basis. Training must be provided by City of Valdosta, Lowndes County, or South Georgia Regional Commission (SGRC) planning staff or sponsored by one of the following organizations: American Planning Association (APA), Georgia Planning Association (GPA), Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA), Georgia Association of Zoning Administrators (GAZA), [or] International City County Management Association (ICMA). Training events provided by organizations outside of this list must be approved by the SGRC Planning Director, City of Valdosta Planner, and Lowndes County Planner. Expenses associated with registration fees, travel, and lodging shall be subject to reimbursement as provided in section 2-93.
(Ord. No. 93, § 8, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-89. - Conflicts of interest.
A commission member shall have a conflict of interest when he or she:
(1)
Has a financial interest directly affected by advice or recommendation under consideration by the commission;
(2)
Has a financial interest in any business entity that has a financial interest directly affected by advice or recommendation under consideration by the commission; or
(3)
Has an immediate family member having any financial interest described in subsection (1) or (2) of this section.
Any commission member having a conflict of interest shall immediately disclose the nature and extent of such interest to the commission. The commission member who has such an interest shall be disqualified from discussing and voting on and shall not attempt to influence the advice or recommendation of the commission under consideration which gave rise to the conflict of interest.
(Ord. No. 93, § 9, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-90. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the commission shall begin July 1 of each calendar year and end June 30 of the following calendar year.
(Ord. No. 93, § 10, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-91. - Meeting space.
The commission shall determine a proper location for their meetings.
(Ord. No. 93, § 11, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-92. - Reimbursement for expenses.
The member governments shall provide budgeted funding for each commission member to receive reimbursement for expenses related to the completion of those duties and responsibilities described in section 2-88, including but not limited to reimbursement for use of personal vehicle and mileage. This reimbursement shall be paid to the commission member following their attendance at each regular monthly public hearing provided, however, the total amount of such funding for each fiscal year of the commission shall be within the annual budget of the commission for such funding approved by the member governments. The amount of reimbursement for expenses shall be determined by the member governments on an annual basis in connection with their approval of the annual budget of the commission.
(Ord. No. 93, § 12, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-93. - Training expenses.
The member governments shall provide funding for the purpose of training for commission members, including attending out-of-town training seminars and training provided locally for planning commission members; provided, however, the total amount of such funding for each fiscal year of the commission shall be within the annual budget of the commission for such funding approved by the member governments.
(Ord. No. 93, § 13, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-94. - Miscellaneous expenses.
The member governments shall provide funding for miscellaneous expenses of the commission, to include the purchase of journals and other publications and plaques or similar mementos provided to commission members at the end of a final term as a member of the commission, provided, however, the total amount of such funding for each fiscal year of the commission shall be within the annual budget of the commission for such funding approved by the member governments.
(Ord. No. 93, § 14, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-95. - Administrative assistance.
The member governments shall provide funding for the purpose of the provision of administrative assistance to the commission necessary for the performance of the commission's duties and responsibilities, including assistance for the purpose of providing reimbursement for expenses to commission members, making arrangements for commission members to attend training seminars, coordinating and overseeing the provision of local training opportunities for commission members, making payment of training expenses, preparing meeting agenda, taking and preparing minutes of commission meetings, maintaining and distributing journals and other publications to commission members, keeping records of the commission, preparing annual budgets of the commission for submission to the member governments, and providing the commission expense data as requested by the commission; provided, however, the total amount of such funding for each fiscal year of the commission shall be within the annual budget of the commission for such funding approved by the member governments.
(Ord. No. 93, § 15, 12-2-08)
Sec. 2-96. - Budget.
In advance of each fiscal year of the commission, the commission shall meet with the SGRC to review the proposed budget for funding by the member governments prior to the submittal of the budget to the member governments. Such proposed budget shall include funding for reimbursement of expenses to commission members, training for commission members, miscellaneous expenses, and the provision of administrative assistance to the commission. Following approval by the member governments, each member government shall pay a portion share of the approved budget based on its population based on the most recent annual local government population estimates available from the U.S. Census Bureau, with Lowndes County's population to be the population of the unincorporated area of the county. Lowndes County's share of funding shall be paid from the unincorporated area revenues of Lowndes County. The proportion share of the cities of Hahira, Lake Park, Dasher, and Remerton shall be paid for from SGRC revenues and shall equal the annually established SGRC dues rate applied to the current Census population estimate for each of the aforementioned communities actively participating in the commission. Following the end of each fiscal year, any remaining funds shall be credited or refunded to the funding entity based on the formulas on which such funding was provided except, however, in the case of Hahira, Lake Park, Dasher and Remerton such funding shall be returned to the SGRC.
(Ord. No. 93, § 16, 12-2-08)
