ARTICLE II. - OFFICERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— This division is a compilation of various special acts of the Georgia General Assembly which do not justify treatment as an article of this Part I. Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section.

Sec. I-II-1. - Compensation authorized.
The clerk of the superior court, the sheriff, the probate judge, and the tax commissioner of Murray County shall be compensated by annual salaries, and the former mode of compensating such officers, known as the fee system shall have no application to such officers.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 1)
Sec. I-II-2. - Clerk of superior court.
(a)
The clerk of the superior court shall receive an annual salary of $44,100.00 pursuant to this Act. Such annual salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments from funds of Murray County. The cost-of-living increases as provided for in Code Section 15-6-88 of the O.C.G.A. and the longevity increases as provided for in Code Section 15-6-90 of the O.C.G.A. shall be applied to the annual salary of the clerk of the superior court.
(b)
Such annual salary shall be the total compensation of the clerk of the superior court from public funds, except that the clerk may receive in addition to such annual salary: (1) an allowance for his or her service in juvenile court as provided in Code Section 15-6-89; and (2) retirement, insurance, social security, and other similar employment benefits to the extent otherwise authorized by law.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 2; 1999 Ga. Laws, p. 3974, § 1)
Sec. I-II-3. - Sheriff.
(a)
The sheriff shall receive an annual salary in the amount provided by the general laws of this state relating to minimum salaries for sheriffs. Such salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments from funds of Murray County.
(b)
Such annual salary shall be the total compensation of the sheriff from public funds, except that the sheriff may receive, in addition to such annual salary, retirement, insurance, social security, and other similar employment benefits to the extent otherwise authorized by law.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 3)
Sec. I-II-4. - Probate court judge.
(a)
The judge of the probate court shall receive an annual salary in the amount provided by the general laws of this state relating to minimum salaries for probate judges. Such salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments from funds of Murray County.
(b)
Such annual salary shall be the total compensation of the probate judge from public funds, except that the probate judge may receive, in addition to such annual salary, retirement, insurance, social security, and other similar employment benefits to the extent otherwise authorized by law.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 4)
Sec. I-II-5. - Tax commissioner.
(a)
The tax commissioner shall receive an annual salary of $35,100.00 pursuant to this Act. Such annual salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments from funds of Murray County. The cost-of-living and longevity increases as provided for in Code Section 48-5-183 of the O.C.G.A. shall be applied to the annual salary of the tax commissioner.
(b)
Such annual salary shall be the total compensation of the tax commissioner from public funds, except that the tax commissioner may receive in addition to such annual salary: (1) an allowance for his or her service as ex officio sheriff as provided in Code Section 48-5-137 of the O.C.G.A.; and (2) retirement, insurance, social security, and other similar employment benefits to the extent otherwise authorized by law.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 4; 1999 Ga. Laws, p. 3974, § 2)
Sec. I-II-6. - Collection of fees, etc., due office.
The clerk of the superior court, sheriff, probate judge, and tax commissioner shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys, and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed as compensation for services in any capacity in their respective offices and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public moneys and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the fifteenth day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received or according to such other schedule as may be provided by general law. At the time of each such payment into the county treasury, each of said officers shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 6)
Sec. I-II-7. - Salaries in lieu of fees.
It is specifically provided that the salaries provided for in this Act shall be in lieu of all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys, and other emoluments and perquisites of any kind, and on and after the effective date of this section in 1996 none of the officers for whom salaries are specified in this Act shall be entitled to retain any of such fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys, or other emoluments or perquisites in addition to the salary specified in this Act. Nothing in this Act shall apply to or affect any fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys, or other emoluments or perquisites retained by any of said officers prior to said effective date in 1996, and the retention of any such amounts prior to said effective date in 1996 is hereby ratified and confirmed as a part of the compensation lawfully received by such officer prior to said effective date in 1996.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 7)
Sec. I-II-8. - Probate court judge barred to serve as clerk of county.
The judge of the probate court shall not be eligible to serve as the clerk of the governing authority of Murray County.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 8)
Sec. I-II-9. - Staff.
The officers specified in this Act shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants, and other personnel as they shall deem necessary to efficiently and effectively discharge the official duties of their respective offices. Each of said officers shall, from time to time, recommend to the governing authority of Murray County the number of such personnel needed by his or her office, together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee. However, it shall be within the sole discretion of the governing authority of Murray County to fix the compensation to be received by each employee in said offices. It shall be within the sole power and authority of each of said officers, during his or her term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants, and other personnel, to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within such officer's sole discretion.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 9)
Sec. I-II-10. - Office expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of the offices of each of the officers provided for in this Act, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purposes. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, uniforms, vehicles, and equipment and the repair, replacement, and maintenance therefor, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of each office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Murray County.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 10)
Sec. I-II-11. - Bonds.
The official bonds of the officers provided for in this Act and the official bonds of their respective deputies, clerks, assistants, and other personnel, as may be required by law, shall be procured by each elected officer, and the premiums and costs thereof shall be paid out of any county funds available for that purpose.
(1996 Ga. Laws, p. 4438, § 11)
Secs. I-II-12—I-II-20. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CORONER[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3041, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. I-II-21. - Salary.
(a)
The coroner of Murray County is placed on an annual salary payable in equal monthly installments from the general funds of Murray County. The coroner shall receive an annual salary of $5,000.00 payable in equal monthly installments from funds of Murray County.
(b)
The salary provided in subsection (a) of this section, as increased by subsection (c) of this section, shall be increased by multiplying said amount by the percentage which equals five percent times the number of completed four-year terms of office completed by any coroner after July 1, 1996, effective the first day of January following the completion of each such four-year period of service. Any term of office completed prior to July 1, 1996, shall be ignored for purposes of such longevity increase.
(c)
On and after July 1, 1996, whenever the employees in the classified service of the state merit system receive a cost-of-living increase or general-performance-based increase of a certain percentage or a certain amount, the amount fixed in subsection (a) of this section, or the amount derived by increasing said amount through the application of longevity increases pursuant to subsection (b) of this section where applicable, shall be increased by the same percentage or same amount applicable to such state employees. If the cost-of-living increase or general-performance-based increase received by state employees is in different percentages or different amounts as to certain categories of employees, the amount fixed in subsection (a) of this section, or the amount derived through the application of longevity increases, shall be increased by a percentage or an amount not to exceed the average percentage or average amount of the general increase in salary granted to the state employees. Where applicable, the average percentage increase or average amount increase shall be as calculated by the Office of Planning and Budget for purposes of computation of the minimum salaries prescribed in general law for county officers. The periodic changes authorized by this subsection shall become effective on January 1, following the date that the cost-of-living increases or general-performance-based increases received by state employees become effective; provided, however, that if the cost-of-living increases received by state employees become effective on January 1, such periodic changes shall become effective on the same date that the cost-of-living increases or general-performance-based increases received by state employees become effective.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3041, § 1; 1996 Ga. Laws, p. 3945, § 1)
Sec. I-II-22. - Office expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of the office of the coroner shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, uniforms, vehicles, and equipment and the repair, replacement, and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Murray County.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3041, § 2)
