ARTICLE III. - BOARDS AND AUTHORITIES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. I-III-1—I-III-20. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1984 Ga. Laws, page 4009, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. I-III-21. - Creation.
There is created the board of elections of Murray County which shall have jurisdiction over the conduct of primaries and elections in Murray County.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 1)
Sec. I-III-22. - Number, qualification, appointment, terms of office, and election of chairman.
The board shall be composed of three members, each of whom shall be an elector and resident of the county, and who shall be appointed by the judge of the Superior Court of Murray County. The county governing authority is authorized to reject any such appointments but if not rejected by the county governing authority within 15 days after such appointment is made, the appointment shall be final. The members of the board shall serve for terms of office of four years and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The members of the board shall elect a chairman from the membership of the board.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 2)
Sec. I-III-23. - Holding of elective public offices by members prohibited.
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member during the term of such elective office, and the position of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member qualifying as a candidate for elective public office.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 3)
Sec. I-III-24. - Appointment by superior court judge; recordation by clerk of superior court; certification to Secretary of State; issuance of commissions.
The appointment of each member shall be made by the judge of the superior court filing an affidavit with the clerk of the superior court no later than 30 days preceding the date at which such member is to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the court and shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the county governing authority of such county. If such appointment is not rejected, the clerk shall certify the name of such appointed members to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 4)
Sec. I-III-25. - Succession in office; resignation and removal.
Each member of the board shall be eligible to succeed himself and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of his resignation to the judge of the superior court, the county governing authority, and the clerk of the superior court and shall be subject to removal from the board at any time for cause after notice and hearing in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for removal of registrars.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 5)
Sec. I-III-26. - Filling of vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any appointed member before the expiration of his term by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the judge of the superior court shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term subject to rejection by the county governing authority as provided for regular appointments. the clerk of superior court shall be notified of interim appointments and record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 6)
Sec. I-III-27. - When first member takes office; oath; privileges.
The first members of the board under this Act shall take office on July 1, 1984. Before entering upon his duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 7)
Sec. I-III-28. - Succession and exercise of powers.
The board shall, with regard to the preparation for conduct and administration of primaries and election, succeed to and exercise all duties and powers granted to and incumbent upon the election superintendent pursuant to O.C.G.A. tit. 21, ch. 2.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 8)
Sec. I-III-29. - Responsibility for poll workers.
The board or chairman shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in elections.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 9)
Sec. I-III-30. - Delivery from powers and duties; custody of equipment, supplies, facilities, etc., to board of elections.
Upon the effective date of this Act, the election superintendent shall be delivered from all powers and duties to which the board of elections succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver thereafter to the chairman of the board, upon his written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 10)
Sec. I-III-31. - Chairman designated chief executive officer; directives of board.
The chairman of the board of elections shall be the chief executive officer of the board and shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board. The board shall fix and establish directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction by appropriate resolutions entered on its minutes.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 11)
Sec. I-III-32. - Compensation.
Compensation for the members of the board, clerical assistants, and other employees shall be such as may be fixed by the county governing authority. Said compensation shall be paid wholly from county funds.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 12)
Sec. I-III-33. - Offices and clerical assistants.
The governing authority shall provide the board with such proper and suitable offices and with such clerical assistants and other employees as the governing authority shall deem appropriate.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 13)
Sec. I-III-34. - Definition of terms.
The words "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," "public office," "special election," and "special primary" shall have the same meaning as provided in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-2, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 14)
Sec. I-III-35. - When Act effective.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without his approval.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 15)
Sec. I-III-36. - Repeal of conflicting laws.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4009, § 16)
Secs. I-III-37—I-III-56. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1994 Ga. Laws, page 3863, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. I-III-57. - Appointment of successors and filling of vacancies to board.
(a)
Appointment of successors. Successors to members of the board of the Hospital Authority of Murray County whose terms of office are to expire shall be appointed by the governing authority of Murray County by December 15 immediately preceding the expiration of such terms and shall take office the first day of January immediately following the expiration of such terms. Appointments made pursuant to this subsection or subsection (b) of this section shall be submitted in writing to the chairperson of such hospital authority. Members of the board of such authority may succeed themselves in office.
(b)
Filling of vacancies. When a member of the board of the Hospital Authority of Murray County dies, resigns, is unable to fulfill the duties of his or her office due to incapacity, or the office otherwise becomes vacant for any reason other than expiration of term, that hospital authority shall notify the chairperson of the governing authority of Murray County immediately of such vacancy. Said governing authority shall appoint a person to fill said vacancy within 60 days of its receipt of written notice thereof. The new appointee shall serve out the remainder of the unexpired term of the member who he or she is replacing and until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(1994 Ga. Laws, p. 3863, § 1)
Secs. I-III-58—I-III-77. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1966 Ga. Laws, page 963, a constitutional amendment, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. This amendment was continued in force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3792. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. I-III-78. - Creation, powers, authority, etc.
(a)
Creation. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Murray County to be known as the "Murray County Industrial Development Authority," hereinafter referred to as the "authority," which shall be an instrumentality of Murray County and a public corporation.
(b)
Membership. The authority shall consist of seven members who shall serve for a term of four years each and who shall be eligible for reappointment. The members shall be appointed by the governing authority of Murray County, and the members may be residents of any area of Murray County. The first members of the authority shall be appointed for terms of two for one year, two for two years, two for three years, and one for four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. The governing authority of Murray County shall designate the terms of office of the first members when making the appointment. Thereafter, the terms of office of all members shall be for four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the governing authority of Murray County. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act. No member of the authority may be a member of the governing authority of Murray County, but there shall be no other disqualification to hold public office by reason of membership on the authority.
(c)
Taxes exemptions. The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Murray County. The exemptions from taxation herein provided shall not include exemptions from sale and use taxes on property purchased by the authority or for use by the authority.
(d)
Tax exemptions. The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the authority. The right of any private person to use or occupy any real estate of the authority for a period of one year or longer under any lease or other agreement for the purpose of taxation shall be classed as an interest in the real estate and as real property and shall be taxed as real property as now provided by law or may be taxed as the General Assembly may hereafter provide by general or local law. The tax exemption herein provided also shall not include exemption from sale and use taxes on property purchased by the authority or for use of the authority.
(e)
Powers of the authority. The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own operate, maintain, sell, lease as a lessor and lessee, and mortgage land, buildings and property of all kinds within the limits of Murray County;
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(3)
To grant, loan and lease without adequate consideration or without any consideration and with and without security, any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations operating or promising to operate any industrial plant or establishment within Murray County which in the judgment of the authority will be a benefit to the people of said county. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other power of the authority;
(4)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds, and revenue certificates therefor, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(5)
To contract with Murray County and other political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(6)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporation, except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents, and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(7)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industry, agriculture, trade, and commerce and the facilities therefor in Murray County, and to make long-range plans therefor, to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Murray County suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building. No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than 30 years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
(8)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(9)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter; [and]
(10)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
(f)
Debt. The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Murray County.
(g)
Tort liability, etc. The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia, and the officers, agents and employees of the authority when in performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia when in performance of their public duties or work of the State. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority.
(h)
Compensation. The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services of the authority.
(i)
Bonds. The authority, with the consent of the governing authority of Murray County and to carry out the purpose of this amendment, is hereby authorized to issue revenue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturity at the years and amounts determined by the authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, p. 761), as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. chapter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Bonds thus issued shall be paid first from the income of the authority. In the event such income is not sufficient to pay the principal and interest of such revenue bonds as they mature, then the governing authority of Murray County is authorized and required to provide the additional funds necessary to make such payment, and for this purpose the said governing authority is authorized to levy an annual tax on all taxable property within the county, provided such tax shall not exceed two mills.
(j)
Funds. The governing authority of Murray County is also authorized, in addition to the tax provided in paragraph (i), to appropriate to the authority such amount from its funds each year as it shall see fit, and any funds so appropriated when paid to the authority shall become a part of the funds of the authority and may be used for the purposes as herein stated or as may hereafter be defined by law.
(k)
Property. The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the authority, and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
(l)
Intent. This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare of Murray County and its citizens, industry, agriculture and trade within the County of Murray and making long-range plans for such development and expansion and to authorize the use of public funds of Murray County for such purpose, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of this purpose.
(m)
Effective date. This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor, and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within 30 days after such proclamation.
(n)
[Actions by the] General Assembly. The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereon and may enlarge and restrict the same and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of Murray County, and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within Murray County. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond the limits of Murray County.
(o)
Debt. There shall be no limitations upon the amount of debt which the authority may incur, but no debt created by the authority shall be a debt of Murray County or the state.
(1966 Ga. Laws, p. 963, § 1)
Secs. I-III-79—I-III-98. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - COUNTY WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3447, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. I-III-99. - Short title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Murray County Water and Sewer Authority Act."
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 1)
Sec. I-III-100. - General provisions.
(a)
Creation. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Murray County Water and Sewer Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
Membership. The authority shall consist of five members. The following persons are hereby initially designated and appointed as members of the Murray County Water and Sewer Authority:
(1)
Mr. C.W. Holcomb, who shall hold an initial term of office expiring on March 31, 1981;
(2)
Mrs. Bob Hill, who shall hold an initial term of office expiring on March 31, 1982;
(3)
Mr. Carlton Petty, who shall hold an initial term of office expiring on March 31, 1983;
(4)
Mr. Roy Southerland, who shall hold an initial term of office expiring on March 31, 1984; and
(5)
Mrs. Jaroyd Smith, who shall hold an initial term of office expiring on March 31, 1985.
The initial members of the authority shall enter upon the duties of their office on the effective date of this Act and shall serve until the expiration of their respective terms of office or until their successors are duly elected and qualified. During the month of March 1981, and in the month of March of each year thereafter, a meeting of those persons, firms, corporations, companies, and organizations who use the facilities of the authority shall be called by the authority for the purpose of electing successors to those members whose terms expire in such year. Said meeting shall be called and conducted as hereinafter prescribed. Except as otherwise provided herein, each member elected by the users of the system shall enter upon the duties of his office on March 31 immediately following his election and shall serve for a term of office of five years and until his successor is duly elected and qualified. Members of the authority may serve with or without compensation and shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall have the power to establish bylaws and to promulgate and adopt rules and regulations necessary or convenient for the government of the authority.
(c)
[Eligibility for election.] To be eligible for election as a member of the authority, a person shall be at least 18 years of age and a resident of Murray County for at least two years prior to the date of his election, shall not have been convicted of a felony, and at the time of election shall be a user of the facilities of the authority. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the initial members of the authority appointed under the provisions of this section.
(d)
[Officers, term of office, and voting provisions.] The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairman and another as vice-chairman and they may also elect a secretary and treasurer or a secretary or treasurer, who need not be a member of the authority. Such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The chairman of the authority shall not be entitled to vote upon any issue, motion, or resolution, except in the case of a tie vote of the other members voting on said motion, resolution, or question.
(e)
[Quorum.] Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(f)
[Filling of vacancies.] In the event of a vacancy by reason of death, disqualification, resignation, or other reason, the remaining members of the authority, provided at least three members remain on the authority, shall elect by majority vote a qualified person to fill the vacancy until the next annual election by the users of the system, at which time the users of the system shall elect a qualified person to fill the remaining unexpired term of the member whose position has been vacated. A vacancy shall exist in the office of any member of the authority who is convicted of a felony, who moves his residence from Murray County, or who is indicted or charged with any act of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance by the Murray County grand jury acting in its sole discretion. If, for any reason whatsoever, the users of the system shall fail to elect a member at any annual meeting to replace a member whose term expires, the remaining members of the authority, provided at least three members remain on the authority, shall elect by majority vote a duly qualified person as a member of the authority to serve until the next annual meeting of the users.
(g)
[Filling of vacancies by commissioner.] In the event that there are three or more vacancies on the authority at any one time, the commissioner of Murray County or any other officer who or commission which might succeed to his duties in the future shall appoint the number of qualified persons needed to bring the total number of persons on the authority up to three. The authority shall then elect qualified persons in the manner described above to fill the remaining vacancies. All persons so appointed by the commissioner of Murray County shall serve until the next annual election by the users of the system, at which time the users of the system shall elect qualified persons to fill the remaining terms of the members whose vacated positions had been filled by appointment by said commissioner of Murray County.
(h)
[Annual meetings.] Annual meetings of the users of the facilities of the authority shall be held in March of each year. Such annual meeting shall be called by the authority, after notice thereof has been published in the newspaper in Murray County in which the sheriff's advertisements are published at least ten days prior to the date of such meeting. The authority is hereby authorized to promulgate and adopt rules and regulations providing for the method and procedures for holding such annual meetings and elections.
(i)
[Audit required.] The authority shall have a complete audit of its financial condition made at least once in each calendar year by a certified public accountant. Such audit shall remain on file at the office of the authority for public inspection.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 2)
Sec. I-III-101. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
The word "authority" shall mean the Murray County Water and Sewer Authority.
(2)
The word "project" shall mean and include the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual water facilities useful and necessary for the obtaining of one or more sources of water supply within or without the territorial boundaries of Murray County; the treatment of water; and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including counties and municipalities, for the purpose of resale, within and without the territorial boundaries of Murray County; and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate water utility system deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking. The word "project" shall also mean and include the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter, individual and industrial; for treatment of such waste, including the acquisition and construction of treatment plants and lagoons, without and within the territorial boundaries of Murray County; and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities deemed by the authority to be necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of a sanitary and storm sewer system.
(3)
The term "cost of the project" shall mean and embrace the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during the construction and for one year after completion of construction; cost of engineering, architectural, and legal expenses and of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized; the construction of any project; the placing of the same in operation; and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(4)
The terms "revenue bonds" and "bonds" as used in this Act shall mean revenue certificates as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1957, p. 36), as amended; and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this Act.
(5)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom and all facilities used in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, and repairing, improving, or extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 3)
Sec. I-III-102. - Powers.
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, or rights of easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes; and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue; and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of, or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to [the] best advantage of the authority. In any condemnation proceedings such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned. No property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or encumbrance exists unless, at the time such property is so acquired, a sufficient sum of money is deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the governor is hereby authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the state, title to such lands to the authority upon payment of the reasonable value of such lands to the director, Fiscal Division, Department of Administrative Services, for the credit of the general fund of the state. Such value shall be determined by three appraisers to be agreed upon by the governor and the chairman of the authority;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys and fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired. Any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable. Without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, counties, other political subdivisions, and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water and related services and facilities by the authority to such municipal corporations, counties, or political subdivisions or for the purchase of water by the authority therefrom for a term not exceeding 50 years;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant or grants from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, or from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To accept loans or grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(8)
To accept loans or grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality may required;
(9)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, provided the same is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state; and
(11)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 4)
Sec. I-III-103. - Revenue bonds—[Generally].
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have the power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the authority in a sum not to exceed $5,000,000.00 outstanding at any one time for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund hereby provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated; shall bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding nine percent per annum, payable at such time or times; shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, or at such times exceeding 40 years as may hereafter be authorized by the bonding laws of the State of Georgia; shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority and may be redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution for the issuance of bonds.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 5)
Sec. I-III-104. - Same—Form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine. Provisions may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as a principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 6)
Sec. I-III-105. - Same—Signatures, seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds, or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon, shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attached by the secretary of the authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the signature or facsimile signature of the chairman of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such person may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 7)
Sec. I-III-106. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instrument laws of this state. Such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 8)
Sec. I-III-107. - Same—Sale, price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interests of the authority but no such sale shall be made at a price so low as to require the payment of interest on the money received therefor at more than nine percent per annum, computed with relation to the absolute maturity of the bonds in accordance with standard tables of bond values, excluding, however, from such computation the amount of any premium to be paid on redemption of any bond prior to maturity.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 9)
Sec. I-III-108. - Same—Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects and, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be for the same purpose and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund hereinafter provided for the payment of principal and interest of such bonds.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 10)
Sec. I-III-109. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 11)
Sec. I-III-110. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 12)
Sec. I-III-111. - Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and shall be published in the official newspaper for Murray County one time within a week of its being adopted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 13)
Sec. I-III-112. - Credit not pledged—[Generally].
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Murray County or a pledge of the faith and credit of said county but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for; and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment; and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 14)
Sec. I-III-113. - Same—Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issuance of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys; and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor; any may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers; and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 15)
Sec. I-III-114. - Same—To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 16)
Sec. I-III-115. - Same—Sinking funds.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide. Such funds so pledged, from whatever source received, including funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund, which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking funds shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture; but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fun shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 17)
Sec. I-III-116. - Same—Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia, or granted hereunder, or under such resolution or trust indenture and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 18)
Sec. I-III-117. - Same—Refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 19)
Sec. I-III-118. - Same—Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Murray County and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 20)
Sec. I-III-119. - Same—Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law, as amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for services and facilities of the water system for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated; and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds against the authority issuing the same; and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality contracting with the said Murray County Water and Sewer Authority.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 21)
Sec. I-III-120. - Same—Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds; and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the rights and interests of the holders of such bonds; nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 22)
Sec. I-III-121. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether all proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds as grants or other contributions or as revenues, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 23)
Sec. I-III-122. - Purpose of the authority.
(a)
Without limiting the generality of any provision of this Act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring an adequate source or sources of water supply, treatment of such water, and thereafter the distribution of same to the various townships and citizens in Murray County and environs, including adjoining counties and municipalities located therein, and, further, for the general purpose of gathering and treatment of waste, both individual and industrial; but such general purpose shall not restrict the authority from selling and delivering water directly to consumers in those areas where there do not now exist water distribution systems or furnishing sewer facilities to such consumers and areas where neither any county nor municipality deems it desirable or feasible to furnish water in such locality.
(b)
The authority shall also have the authority, where it deems it feasible, to sell its products and services to consumers, governmental agencies, or governmental instrumentalities of adjoining states, provided the laws of the adjoining states do not prohibit or tax said activity.
(c)
The authority shall not have the authority to construct water lines for the distribution of water directly to consumers within any water district or municipality without first obtaining the express written consent of the appropriate governing bodies of the above referred to water districts or municipalities.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 24)
Sec. I-III-123. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe, fix, and collect rates, fees, tolls, or charges for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished; and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or extension of the water and sewer utility system; and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues or improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto thereafter made.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 25)
Sec. I-III-124. - Rules and regulations for operation of project.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which water and sewer service and facilities shall be furnished.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 26)
Sec. I-III-125. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 27)
Sec. I-III-126. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes thereof.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 28)
Sec. I-III-127. - Effect on other governments.
This Act does not in any way take from Murray County or any municipality located therein or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate, and maintain water or sewer systems or issue revenue certificates as is provided by the Revenue Bond Law of Georgia.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3447, § 29)
