ARTICLE XI. - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS

11.1 - Purpose.
The purpose of the article is to provide standards and regulations to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of Troup County. Troup County recognizes that manufactured housing meets the needs of many county residents for affordable housing and is compatible with site-built housing if developed in accordance with comparable standards. These regulations shall govern the use and operation of all manufactured homes on single lots or within parks used for permanent residential occupancy in unincorporated Troup County, Georgia. It is the intent of these regulations to empower the Troup County Planning Commission, the Troup County Health Department, and the building and zoning office to review the development of manufactured home sites and manufactured home parks within the unincorporated areas of Troup County for compliance with standards as stated in this ordinance.
11.2 - Manufactured Homes.
11.2-1 Nonconforming Use. Nonconforming mobile/manufactured home parks lawfully existing at the time of adoption of this ordinance may be continued, but if such nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of 90 days, the manufactured home park shall be made to conform with the requirements of these regulations prior to its being occupied again. Any expansion or addition to an existing manufactured home park shall be in compliance with these regulations, as amended.
11.2-2 Placement Application. An application for placement approval shall be completed and review, processing and advertising fees paid. No manufactured housing unit shall be moved, placed, added to the Troup County property digest, issued a decal or building permit until a placement approval is provided by said application. Application shall be available in the planning and zoning office and/or building inspections office.
11.2-3 Issuance of Permit. Any owner of a manufactured home, whether locating or relocating said manufactured home, shall obtain a building permit from the Building and Inspections Department of Troup County indicating compliance with all applicable codes before any person or persons are authorized to occupy any newly installed manufactured home.
11.2-4 Permit Procedures. A manufactured home permit to move a manufactured home into or within the county shall not be issued until the following conditions have been met in accordance with established procedures.
11.2-5 All manufactured homes must be located at an approved manufactured home space, or in an approved manufactured home park subject to the requirements of this ordinance.
11.2-6 For individual lots outside of a manufactured home park, a septic tank certificate shall be obtained from Troup County Health Department for onsite sewage disposal, or in the event that sewer will be provided, a letter shall be provided by the local government providing the service verifying they will allow public sewer hookup.
11.2-7 For purposes of this section, the building and inspections office shall issue the aforementioned building permit, and the health department shall issue the aforementioned septic tank certificate. Upon issuance of the required permits, a manufactured home may be moved into the county or within the county and installed for occupancy provided it has obtained approval either from the Troup County Board of Commissioners or the zoning administrator if it is a replacement manufactured home.
11.2-8 All manufactured homes located in the unincorporated county shall adhere to the appearance standards for type I (individual housing lots outside manufactured home parks) or type II housing (for manufactured homes located in manufactured home parks) set forth in Article VII.
11.2-9 All manufactured homes or offices located on individual lots that meet or exceed the housing appearance standards for type I houses may be considered for approval at the discretion of the zoning administrator, provided that the proposed manufactured housing unit (MHU) meets all of the following:
a.
The proposed MHU meets the standards for type I houses;
b.
The lot on which the MHU is to be sited is a conforming lot and the site meets the zoning district's requirements;
c.
The MHU is a replacement manufactured home or office unit;
d.
Reserved;
e.
Reserved;
f.
A permit for the demolition shall be issued for any residential structure existing on the lot, parcel or tract on which the manufactured unit is to be located prior to any replacement manufactured unit;
g.
No existing MHU to be replaced may be converted for use as an accessory structure (storage);
h.
The MHU is a replacement home located on a parcel where a manufactured home has not been physically located for more than ten years and a site inspection by the zoning administrator has been conducted to determine if conditions of the original approval have changed. Some conditions that may cause denial of administrative approval are:
1.
Changes in zoning of the subject or surrounding parcels
2.
Area has been developed with uses not compatible with manufactured home placement.
3.
Property owner being in violation of nuisance or other county ordinances at the time of application.
4.
Other conditions that require a variance.
i.
Decal and property taxes are current.
11.2-10 All other manufactured home placement applications shall be approved by the Troup County Board of Commissioners prior to being issued a permit. Application for Manufactured Home Placement may be obtained from the Building and Inspections Office. The application will be put on the next regularly scheduled Board of Zoning Appeals/Planning Commission agenda for a recommendation from that body to the Troup County Board of Commissioners for approval, denial or continuance. There will be a public hearing as per sections 16.10 and 16.11 and notice posted as per section 16.8.
( Ord. No. 2010-11 , ยง IG., 6-1-2010; Ord. No. 2010-12 , ยง IH., 6-16-2010; Ord. No. 2013-04 , ยง I, 11-20-2012)
11.3 - Minimum Construction Standards.
Each newly installed manufactured home in Troup County shall conform to the minimum construction standards required by U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD), as required by the National Mobile Home and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C., section 5401, et seq., before that manufactured home is entitled to receive any utility service to said manufactured home. It is the intent of this section of this ordinance to prohibit moving manufactured homes into Troup County that do not conform to the applicable housing and urban development construction standards, as expressed in 42 U.S.C. section 5401 et seq., and regulations established pursuant to that Act. To that end, no manufactured home shall be allowed to locate or relocate for permanent or temporary occupancy in this County unless that manufactured home complies with the minimum construction standards required by HUD, which compliance must be evidenced by the affixation of a permanent label or tag certifying the compliance. Manufactured homes that do not display certification compliance shall not be eligible for a Troup County building and/or occupancy permit. Any manufactured home in Troup County that legally exists at the time of adoption of this ordinance that does display certification compliance shall not be required to have certification. However, any manufactured home that does not display certification shall be considered a nonconforming structure and shall not be relocated to any other site within the county.
11.4 - Installation Requirements.
All newly installed manufactured homes shall be permanently connected to water, sewerage and electrical service in compliance with applicable health codes and department of human resources (DHR) rules in chapter 120-3-7 Rules and regulations for manufactured homes, including rules made and promulgated by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner. All manufactured homes shall be installed on an approved pier system and secured with approved tie-downs devices, an approved plumbing system, an approved electrical system and an approved landing at each exit as required by the aforementioned rules, regulations and in compliance with appearance standards for the appropriate zoning district. Each manufactured home shall be installed such that the finished floor level of the manufactured home shall not exceed an average height higher than 80 inches in elevation from the finished grades, in accordance with chapter 120-3-7 Rules and regulations for manufactured homes. All manufactured homes shall be installed to meet the manufacturer's regulations. At the time of inspection, the space beneath each manufactured home shall be enclosed by cement blocks with mortar with the exception of ventilation and access openings, and in compliance with appearance requirements in Article VII. The residential zone of each manufactured home will dictate which type it must meet (see permitted use table 7.3). The enclosing materials shall extend from the lower edge of the exterior walls of the manufactured home to the ground surface level of the pad on which it is located. All ventilation and access openings shall be covered with wire mesh screen or its equivalent.
11.5 - Inspection for Manufactured Homes.
The following requirements shall pertain to the installation of manufactured homes on individual lots or in parks.
11.6 - Foundation.
The building inspector shall require the foundation to be inspected to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations for manufactured homes, as may be subsequently revised. These rules and regulations for manufactured homes are incorporated as a part of this ordinance by reference. Until the foundation is inspected and approved by the building inspector, no additional work will be approved.
11.7 - On-Site Sewerage.
Where individual on-site sewerage systems are installed with public or community water systems, the minimum lot size shall be no less than required in the zoning district in which the home is located. All on site sewerage systems shall be subject to the Troup County Health Department approval.
11.8 - Electrical.
The building inspector shall require inspection of the external electrical system to ensure compliance with current National Electrical Code, as amended.
11.9 - Gas.
The building inspector shall require inspection of the external gas system to ensure compliance with the current standard gas code, as amended.
11.10 - Inspections/Certificate of Occupancy.
Until these inspections have been made and the manufactured home is found to be in compliance with all applicable codes, no permanent power may be installed, and no occupancy shall be permitted. Evidence of compliance will be shown by written documentation provided to the applicant and a sticker attached to the electrical meter base.
11.11 - Occupancy of Recreational Vehicles.
No recreational vehicle shall be permanently occupied within any manufactured home park development nor connected to permanent water or electrical power and no manufactured home location permits shall be issued for recreational vehicles.
11.12 - Manufactured Home Parks.
11.12-1 Procedures for Development. Manufactured home parks may be developed on any parcel of land that is zoned or may be zoned manufactured home park (MHP). Where three or more homes are located on one tract of land it shall be defined as a manufactured home park and any expansion of existing manufactured home parks shall meet the requirements of this section. All manufactured home parks developed after adoption of this ordinance shall meet the following site plan requirements:
11.12-2 Site Plan Approval Required. All manufactured home park developments shall require site plan approval by the board of zoning appeals/planning commission in accordance with the procedures and requirements established herein. Site plans required herein for the placement of three or more residential units shall contain the seal of a Georgia registered engineer or surveyor. No building permits shall be issued for sites within any development until final approval is granted subject to all park plan requirements.
11.12-3 Park Plan Submittal Requirements. All park plans shall be submitted to the zoning administrator accompanied by the required fee payment as established by Troup County.
11.12-4 The name of the proposed park, and the name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
11.12-5 Location map and legal description of the manufactured home park, north arrow (designated magnetic or true).
11.12-6 Complete plans to scale of one inch equals not more than 100 feet and specifications of the proposed park showing:
a.
The area and dimensions of the tract of land; including topographic data at a contour interval of not more than five feet or an interval appropriate for decision making on the tract; and including the location and type of soils on the tract. Statement of accuracy signed by surveyor, engineer or soil scientist as applicable.
b.
The number, location and dimensions of all manufactured home lots.
c.
The location and width of streets; the location and size of drainage mechanisms proposed, including the size of each application drainage area.
d.
The location of service buildings (laundry service, office, community building etc.) and other proposed structures.
e.
The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes.
f.
The plans and specifications of the water supply and refuse disposal facilities.
g.
The plans and specifications of all buildings to be constructed within the park.
h.
The location of street lights, if applicable.
i.
The locations of bulk refuse containers, perimeter walls, and park signs.
j.
A soil erosion and sedimentation plan meeting the requirements of the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Act.
k.
The certification from the appropriate authority on water and sewer acceptability.
11.12-7 Development Compliance. All required improvements, according to the site plan approved by the board of zoning appeals/planning commission, shall be installed in each phase before the issuance of building permits.
11.13 - Regulations.
11.13-1 Soil and Ground Cover Requirements. Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every manufactured home park shall adhere to the following:
a.
All streets shall be paved with curb and gutters, and in accordance with Troup County standards.
b.
All areas designated as yards shall be planted with grass or acceptable vegetative shrubs or flowers.
c.
Any walkways to front or back entrances shall be covered with stone or other solid material capable of preventing soil erosion and eliminating objectionable dust.
11.13-2 Location and Frontage. A manufactured home park development shall be located on property with a minimum frontage of 100 feet on a public street.
11.13-3 Site Drainage Requirements. The ground surface in all parts of every park site shall be graded and equipped to drain all water in a safe, efficient manner.
11.13-4 Streets. All manufactured home parks shall contain a street system designed to provide convenient circulation within the park, and shall have at least one unobstructed access to a public street or highway for every 30 homes. The following requirements shall apply to the development of the park street system.
11.13-5 All internal streets shall meet the minimum requirements of Troup County standards for roads.
11.13-6 All cul-de-sacs shall be constructed with a minimum 50-foot radius.
11.13-7 All park streets shall be maintained in good repair at all times by the owner(s) of the park if roads are private.
11.13-8 Street design, base preparations, and surface construction materials shall meet the requirements of the county street and road standards. Written approval of the street system by the county engineer shall be required and any required maintenance or performance bonds shall be received by the roads and engineering department before any building permit is issued.
11.13-9 Street naming, address assignment and display shall comply with the Troup County Comprehensive Address Assignment and Display Guide.
11.13-10 Off-Street Parking Requirements. A minimum of two off-street parking spaces per lot shall be provided in all manufactured home parks for the use of park occupants and guests.
11.13-11 Lot Area and Width. A manufactured home park development shall have a minimum area of ten contiguous acres with 30 percent for streets and other improvements including the requirements of 11.3-8. Individual unit spaces shall consist of a minimum 1,200 s.f. per unit.
11.13-12 Recreation and Other Community Facilities. Not less than ten percent of the total area of the development shall be devoted to recreation and other facilities such as a laundry, community center or other similar facilities.
11.13-13 Setbacks Required.
11.13-14 No manufactured home or accessory building or structure shall be located closer than 50 feet to any park perimeter property boundary.
11.13-15 Each manufactured home shall be setback from any other manufactured home by at least 40 feet.
11.13-16 There shall be a minimum distance of 25 feet between any individual manufactured home and an adjoining street, common parking areas, or other common areas.
11.13-17 Perimeter Buffer Required. An undisturbed buffer consisting of trees and other landscaping material at least 50 feet in width shall be provided and maintained around the entire perimeter of a manufactured home park. Provided, however, any underground utilities may be placed within this buffer, but no closer than 25 feet from the perimeter of the park boundary. The property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of the buffer, which shall be so maintained as to present a neat and orderly appearance and shall be kept free from refuse and debris.
11.13-18 Lighting. All manufactured home parks shall have lighting of height, spacing and intensity so that each home site is accessible and parking is appropriately illuminated.
11.13-19 Water Supply.
11.13-20 Governmental Water System: All manufactured homes parks shall connect to an existing public water system if such system is located within 1,000 feet of the proposed park. The availability and adequacy of a public water supply shall be confirmed by the applicable agency having jurisdiction. If the public water supply is determined to be unavailable or inadequate for service, the board of zoning appeals/planning commission may waive the requirement and allow an alternative water supply source.
11.13-21 Non-Governmental Water System: Well and water distribution system must meet the standards for a community water system in accordance with the rules of Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division, chapter 391-3-5, "Rules for safe drinking water", as amended and be approved by the Troup County Health Department.
11.13-22 Sewerage Disposal and Treatment: All manufactured home parks shall be required to provide either:
a.
A public sewerage treatment system approved by the Georgia Department of Human Resources; or
b.
An onsite sewerage management system approved by the Troup County Health Department.
c.
An onsite sewerage treatment system that is approved by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division. On site, decentralized systems shall meet the requirements of Troup County.
11.13-23 Electrical: All electric installations shall meet the requirements of the current National Electric Code, as amended.
11.13-24 Refuse Collection Facilities: Each manufactured home park shall be provided with a sanitary method of solid waste collection and disposal. Collection facilities shall be either in the form of bulk containers (dumpsters) of sufficient size and adequately distributed throughout the park to meet the needs of the park residents, or at least two individually covered refuse containers having a capacity of 30 gallons or more for each occupied lot. Bulk containers shall be enclosed with a minimum of four feet high chain link fence and placed upon a concrete pad, extending at least 18 inches around each container perimeter. If individual containers are utilized, stands must be provided to hold the refuse containers upright. Collection services shall be provided at least once weekly and conveyed to the nearest approved sanitary landfill. Refuse areas shall be maintained in a clean, sanitary manner so as not to attract, harbor or breed insects, rodents or any manner of vermin or pest.
11.13-25 Service Buildings. Accessory structures and community service facilities are hereby permitted for the convenience and well being of park residents. Such structures shall conform to the International Building Codes adopted by Troup County, as amended, and may include, but are not limited to, the following uses:
Park management offices and storage;
Community postal facilities;
Indoor community recreation areas;
Others as listed in Article VII section 7.4 of the permitted use table.
11.13-26 Restrictions on Occupancy: A manufactured home shall not be occupied for dwelling purposes unless it has met the installation requirements in this ordinance. The manufactured home shall require the approval and inspection by a Building Inspector of Troup County.
