ARTICLE VIII. - TROUP COUNTY HISTORIC AREA OVERLAY DISTRICT

8.1 - Intent.
The purpose of this article is to recognize, help protect and plan for Troup County's historic areas. The county finds that its historic areas and their scenic surroundings are important cultural, recreational and economic assets, critical to the public's long-term interest. Zoning standards and regulations should protect these areas while advancing community development goals and furthering and protecting the public's health, safety and welfare. New construction in these areas should complement rather than interrupt, obscure, or otherwise damage or destroy the historic areas.
8.2 - Description of District.
Historic Areas shall be those areas listed and described herein and further delineated on the Official Zoning Map, which is incorporated and made a part of this ordinance.
8.3 - Applicability.
Historic areas shall function as overlay districts. They may include, be contiguous with, or later become, local historic districts (adopted in accordance with the Georgia Historic Preservation Act of 1980), designated National Register properties or districts, or portions thereof. The regulations of such underlying districts and of the underlying zoning districts shall be maintained and not affected, except in the event of conflict or discrepancy between the historic area and the underlying district or districts. In that case, the more stringent requirements shall be observed, unless noted otherwise in this article.
8.4 - Definitions.
Historic Area means a geographically definable area that possess form, character, and visual qualities derived from arrangements or combinations of topography, vegetation, space, scenic vistas, architecture, appurtenant features, or places of natural or cultural significance, that create an image of stability, comfort, local identity, and livable atmosphere, and which is listed and described within this article, and further delineated on the official zoning map.
8.5 - Local Government Policy Directives.
Because Troup County finds that its historic areas are of special interest deemed desirable and necessary to conserve for present and future owners, the county shall:
8.5-1 Incorporate into the Troup County Comprehensive Plan updates and short-term work plans, specific goals for the historic areas relative to land use, housing, community facilities, economic development and natural and historic resources;
8.5-2 As part of such planning, have special regard for and give special attention to the design, construction and maintenance needs of public thoroughfares, pedestrian ways, open spaces, landscape elements (including trees), recreation areas and comparable amenities of the area, and prepare plans, designs, sketches and/or models proposing public improvement of these facilities and areas;
8.5-3 Prepare special and detailed recommendations with respect to improved housing, education, employment, health, protection and other human resource requirements of the historic areas;
8.5-4 Ensure appropriate communication among interested public agencies, and provide for the active participation by residents of the historic areas in the preparation of plan elements and program elements noted above;
8.5-5 Designate a responsible local government official to coordinate these activities;
8.5-6 Recommend to the county board of commissioners, by a certain date, ways and means by which the county should improve its maintenance and operating programs within the designated historic areas, if applicable; and
8.5-7 Ensure that no county program of any kind results in adverse impacts on the designated historic areas.
8.6 - Visual Compatibility Standards.
8.6-1 Buffer Zones. Any land lot proposed to be subdivided or otherwise developed that is contiguous to a designated historic area shall include a vegetative buffer between the lot to be developed and adjacent historic area. The buffer shall be provided by the owner of the property proposed to be developed.
8.6-2 If the lot proposed to be developed is located within the historic area itself, then the buffer shall be between the lot to be developed and other adjacent lots in the historic area.
8.6-3 If the proposed development and adjacent historic area fall within different zoning districts, then the buffer shall be as specified in Article IX, table 9.1 of this Zoning Ordinance.
8.6-4 If the two lots are both within the same zoning district, then the minimum buffer area of 50 feet shall apply. The county board of commissioners may waive this requirement, however, if it is found that:
1.
The proposed new construction will be visually compatible with the Historic Area,
2.
The historic area already has sufficient buffer area to protect it from visual intrusions, and/or
3.
This buffer would adversely affect the character of the historic area, by isolating it from its larger compatible surroundings, for example.
8.6-5 Other Visual Compatibility Standards. In addition to any other provisions of this article, zoning ordinance or other applicable law, anyone who lives in, or owns property within, an existing or proposed historic area may request additional visual compatibility standards for that historic area, relating to new construction within that historic area, landscaping, sign placement, demolition protocols, or other. Any such proposal must originate from a person living in or owning property in the affected historic area.
Such requests shall be submitted to the Troup County Historic Preservation Commission, on forms available at the Troup County Planning and Zoning office. The historic preservation commission will review each request and forward the request (with comments) to the Troup County Planning Commission. The planning commission will then review the request, schedule a public hearing before the Troup County Board of Commissioners, and provide a recommendation at that hearing, prior to decision by the board of commissioners.
8.7 - Administration of this Article.
8.7-1 Provisions of the Overlay District shall be administered by the Troup County Planner and or the Troup County Zoning Administrator or person designated by the Troup County Planner or Zoning Administrator.
8.7-2 Proposals to designate historic rural areas may be submitted by the Troup County Historic Preservation Commission, Troup County Planning Commission, Troup County Board of Commissioners, Troup County residents, or owners of property in Troup County.
8.7-3 Proposals to establish special visual compatibility standards for proposed or designated historic areas may be submitted only by persons living in or owning property within those historic areas, other provisions of this zoning ordinance and other applicable law notwithstanding.
8.7-4 All proposals to designate historic rural areas and/or establish visual compatibility standards for those areas must be submitted to the historic preservation commission on forms available at the Troup County Planning and Zoning office.
8.7-5 Proposals to designate historic rural areas and/or establish visual compatibility standards shall be reviewed by Troup County Historic Preservation Commission and Troup County Planning Commission, and approved or disapproved by the Troup County Board of Commissioners after public hearing per requirements of Article XVI of this ordinance. Notice of the public hearing on the proposed designation of the historic area shall be mailed to all owners of property within the proposed area, as well as to the owners of property adjacent to the proposed area. Originator of proposal to designate historic rural areas shall be responsible for providing a list of all property owners to be notified.
8.7-6 The Troup County Board of Commissioners, after consultation with the Troup County Historic Preservation Commission and Troup County Planning Commission, may revoke the designation of any historic area that subsequently loses its historic character or visual integrity.
8.7-7 Decisions by the Troup County Board of Commissioners may be appealed in the manner described in this zoning ordinance.
