Chapter 50 - OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES, TAXES AND REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; amusements and entertainments, ch. 10; utilities, ch. 78; home occupations, app. A, art. IV, § 8; general commercial district, C-100, app. A., art. XV; commercial, C-A, app. A, art. XVI; industrial district, I-100, app. A, art. XVII; neighborhood commercial district, C-200, app. A, art. XVIII.
State Law reference— Local government budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Grounds for suspension or revocation of license generally; notice; hearing; refund.
(a)
Any license under this chapter which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the county to any licensee may be suspended or revoked by the board of commissioners for due cause as defined in subsection (b) of this section and after a hearing held for the purpose of considering any such suspension or revocation. At least five days' prior written notice of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the charges upon which such hearing shall be held shall be given to the holder of such license which is sought to be suspended or revoked.
(b)
The term "due cause" for the suspension or revocation of any license shall include any of the following:
(1)
A violation, in the course of operating the business for which a license has been granted under this chapter, of any provision of this chapter or any other ordinance or regulation of the county now or hereafter existing.
(2)
A violation, in the course of operating the business for which a license has been granted under this chapter, of any state or federal law or regulation, now or hereafter existing.
(3)
A material misrepresentation, misstatement or omission of fact in connection with the applications for such license.
(4)
The failure of the holder of any license to continue to meet or comply with the requirements set forth in this chapter for the issuance of such license.
(5)
The operation of the business for which a license is issued in a loud, disorderly, obnoxious or other manner so as to constitute a public nuisance as may be determined by the board of commissioners.
(c)
The board of commissioners is hereby authorized to suspend any license issued under this chapter for any emergency situation, civil disorder, or natural disaster; or in any situation that the board of commissioners deems such immediate suspension necessary for the protection of the health and welfare of the citizens of the county; and such suspension to remain in force until the board of commissioners determines that the emergency or other need for such suspension is over.
(d)
When a license is suspended or revoked, the county shall not be required to refund any portion of the license fee to the holder of such suspended or revoked license.
(Code 1987, § 10-51)
Secs. 50-2—50-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATIONAL TAXES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 50-31. - Required for business dealings in the county.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the county, whether with a location in the county or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an annual occupation tax for such business, trade, profession, or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax registration shall be shown to the building official or this officer's deputies or to any marshal of the county upon request.
(Code 1987, § 10-1)
Sec. 50-32. - Construction of term; definitions.
(a)
Wherever the term "county" is used in this article, such term shall be constructed to mean Troup County, Georgia.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax that approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Business means any person, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity which exerts substantial efforts within the county, engages in, causes to be engaged in, and/or represents or holds out to the public to be engaged in any occupation or activity with the object of gain or benefit, either directly or indirectly.
Business license means the documents evincing payment of the occupation tax and fees due under this chapter, also referred to as the occupational tax certificate.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds or should withhold FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues or should issue to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2 but not a form IRS 1099.
Engaged in business means doing or performing of any act of selling any goods or services, or soliciting business, or offering any goods or services for sale primarily in an attempt to make a profit, including selling or performing services of the character of a wholesaler or retailer, or being involved in any of the functions performed as a manufacturer, renting real property (including but not limited to short term vacation rentals) or personal property; all of the foregoing performed either as an owner, operator or agent of any business, trade, profession, or occupation within the county.
Location or office means any structure or vehicle where a business, profession or occupation is conducted, but do not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor or the agent of the owner or lessor for occupational tax purposes unless the real property's owner, lessor or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue raising purposes.
Person means sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofits, or any other form of business organization.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation.
Practitioners of professions and occupations shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory performed by the county. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Code 1987, § 10-2; Ord. No. 2023-01 , §§ I, II, 10-18-2022)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 50-33. - Levy; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the unincorporated part of the county and/or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location of office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, based upon the following criteria: The number of employees of the business or practitioner.
(b)
The occupation tax schedule shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county business license department.
(Code 1987, § 10-3)
Sec. 50-34. - Paying occupation tax of business with no location in the state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the businesses largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the county and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Code 1987, § 10-4)
Sec. 50-35. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the local government's jurisdiction shall identify the line or lines of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the building official and that line of business being noted by the building official upon the business registration form which is to be displayed by the business owner.
(Code 1987, § 10-5)
Sec. 50-36. - The number of businesses considered to be operating in county.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Code 1987, § 10-6)
Sec. 50-37. - Professionals as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18).
(a)
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees as set forth in section 50-33(b).
(2)
A fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the business license department per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(b)
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by January 1 of each year.
(Code 1987, § 10-7)
Sec. 50-38. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Code 1987, § 10-8)
Sec. 50-39. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Code 1987, § 10-9)
Sec. 50-40. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. Such registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by February 15 of each year, be subject to a ten percent penalty for delinquency as well as other penalties prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade, or calling begun in the county, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a ten percent penalty imposed. The tax registration provided for in this article shall be issued by the building official.
(b)
In addition to the remedies mentioned in subsection (a) of this section, the marshal may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Code 1987, § 10-10)
Sec. 50-41. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this resolution shall be exempt from such registration or tax on the grounds that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 100 percent of the entire proceeds from such business are devoted to such purpose.
(Code 1987, § 10-11)
Sec. 50-42. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 43-1-1 et seq. shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the county registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Code 1987, § 10-12)
Sec. 50-43. - Evidence of qualification required, if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a county business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Code 1987, § 10-13)
Sec. 50-44. - Liability of officer and agents; resignation required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for such business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration provided for in this article before commencing the business. Any person transacting, or offering to transact in the county, any of the kinds of businesses, trades, professions, or occupations without first having so obtained such registration, shall be subject to the penalties provided.
(Code 1987, § 10-14)
Sec. 50-45. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all tax and fees as provided in this article before February 15 of each year, and on February 15 each year hereafter. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the county any business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having obtained such registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 1-19 of this Code. Such penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal provided; and may be collected by the remedies provided for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration provided for in this article shall be issued by the building official, and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after such occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kinds of businesses, trades, professions, or occupations without having first obtained such registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided.
(Code 1987, § 10-15)
Sec. 50-46. - Businesses not covered by this article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355 (businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls).
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Code 1987, § 10-17)
Sec. 50-47. - When occupation tax due and payable.
The amount of occupation tax shall be payable to the such county, at the business license department, on January 1 each year and delinquent if not paid on or before February 15 each year.
(Code 1987, § 10-18)
Sec. 50-48. - Payment of occupation tax by newly established businesses.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the corporate limits of county in the preceding year, the tax for the first year of operation shall be as follows: If the business commences before July 1, 100 percent of the tax calculated under this article shall be due. If the business commences July 1 or thereafter, 50 percent of the tax calculated under this article shall be due.
(Code 1987, § 10-18.1)
Sec. 50-49. - More than one place of line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, such business shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for each location and line and pay an occupation tax in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate for each location and line.
(Code 1987, § 10-18.2)
Sec. 50-50. - Inspections of books and records.
In any case the building official of the county, through his officers, agents, employees, or representatives, may inspect the books of the business for which the returns are made. The building official shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the county, and upon demand of the building official, such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the county within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the tax registration currently existing to do business in the county. Adequate records shall be kept in the county for examination by the building official at that officer's discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of under reporting, a penalty may be assessed pursuant to action being filed in the county magistrate court.
(Code 1987, § 10-18.3)
Sec. 50-51. - Tax registration to be revoked for failure to pay tax, file returns, permit inspection of books.
Upon failure of any business to pay such occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to make any of such returns within the time required in this article, or upon failure to make a true return, or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth, or upon failure to permit inspection of its books as provided in section 50-50, any business tax registration granted by the county under this article permitting the owner of such business to do business for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the county for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax provided for in this article is at that time unpaid, or to an individual, firm, or corporation who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the building official. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax by action filed in the county magistrate court.
(Code 1987, § 10-18.4)
Sec. 50-52. - Effect of failure to comply with article provisions; continuing in business after tax registration revocation.
Any persons, or their managers, agents, or employees, who do business in such county after the registration for such business has been revoked, as stated in section 50-51, are hereby required to make occupation tax returns, and whoever fails to make such returns within the time and in the manner provided in this article, and who refuses to amend such returns so as to set forth the truth, or who makes false returns; and any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who refuse to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the county request such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns provided for, shall be subject to penalties provided in this article. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax by action filed in the county magistrate court.
(Code 1987, § 10-18.5)
Sec. 50-53. - Amendment or repeal of article provisions.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the commission to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Such amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the jurisdiction of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property, or business.
(Code 1987, § 10-18.6)
Sec. 50-54. - Application of article provisions to prior ordinance.
This article does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance or resolution heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior action have not been paid in full and shall have no effect whatsoever on regulatory fees such as those assessed on amusement devices or any permit fees such as those assessed on building permits. So much and such parts of such action heretofore and hereafter passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such actions, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in such action, or failure to comply with any other provisions of this article, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee, or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Code 1987, § 10-18.7)
Sec. 50-55. - Article provisions to remain in full force and effect until changed by board of commissioners.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the board of commissioners. All provisions hereto relating to any form of tax levied in this article shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Code 1987, § 10-18.8)
Sec. 50-56. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in occupation tax.
The board of commissioners may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in the occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1987, § 10-18.9)
Sec. 50-57. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions of article.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention of this section that the specific shall control.
(Code 1987, § 10-18.10)
Sec. 50-58. - Tax on hotel, motel and other accommodations.
(a)
Tax imposed; exception. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq., an eight-percent tax is hereby imposed upon the furnishing for value to the public of any room or rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished by any person or legal entity licensed by or required to pay business or occupation taxes to the county for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin or any other place in which rooms, lodgings or accommodations are regularly furnished for value, but such provisions shall not apply to charges for any rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished for a period of more than ten consecutive days or for use as meeting rooms, or which are being used by state or local government officials or employees when traveling on official business.
(b)
Returns. Those persons or legal entities which shall be responsible for paying the tax imposed in this section shall make quarterly returns showing the amount of taxes collected, the deductions for which they are allowed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-52 and the net tax due. Such return shall include a check payable to the county for the net tax due. The return should be made on forms provided by the county business office by the dates specified on such forms.
(c)
Expenditure of proceeds. The proceeds from this tax shall be expended pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq., which provides for the imposition of this tax.
(Code 1987, § 10-20; Res. No. 2011-05 , 10-19-2010)
Note— The eight-percent tax shall be effective and implemented on January 1, 2011.
Secs. 50-59—50-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - INSURANCE BUSINESS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local tax on other than life insurance companies, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2; general assembly authorized to provide for taxation of insurance companies based on gross direct premiums received from insurance policies within the unincorporated areas of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I(c).

Sec. 50-91. - Gross premiums tax on insurance other than life insurance; levied.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2, there is hereby levied for each year, an annual tax upon each insurer doing insurance business within the unincorporated area of the county, in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year on all insurance, other than life insurance, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(2), (3), (4) and (5). Gross direct premiums shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a).
(Code 1987, § 10-30)
Sec. 50-92. - Administration of article provisions.
The clerk of the county is hereby directed to forward a duly certified copy of this article to the state insurance commissioner within ten days of enactment of the resolution from which this article is derived.
(Code 1987, § 10-31)
Secs. 50-93—50-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Local depository financial institutions business license tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 50-121. - Levy of business license tax.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is hereby levied for each year an annual business license tax upon all depository financial institutions located within the county at a rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of such depository financial institutions. The term "gross receipts" shall mean as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93. Depository financial institutions shall mean state and national banks, state building and loan associations, and federal savings and loan associations.
(Code 1987, § 10-40)
Sec. 50-122. - Minimum business license tax.
The minimum annual amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to this article shall be $1,000.00.
(Code 1987, § 10-41)
Sec. 50-123. - Filing of return.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(c), each depository financial institution subject to this tax shall file a return of its gross receipts with the board of commissioners on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts are measured. Such return shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the state department of revenue based on the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The board of commissioners shall assess and collect the tax levied pursuant to this article based upon the information provided in such return.
(Code 1987, § 10-42)
Sec. 50-124. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes levied pursuant to this article shall be due not later than 30 days after filing of the return prescribed by section 50-123 unless extended by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1987, § 10-43)
Sec. 50-125. - Administration of article provisions.
The clerk of the county is hereby directed to forward a copy of the resolution from which this article is derived to each depository financial institution in the county and to the home office of each such depository financial institution if located outside of the county.
(Code 1987, § 10-44)
Secs. 50-126—50-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - TRANSIENT OR ITINERANT MERCHANT'S OR VENDOR'S LICENSE[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Authority to regulate peddling and fix the cost of licenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1(a)(9); Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; exception from local peddler or itinerant vendor licensing requirements for persons selling agricultural products, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-6; Transient Merchant Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

Sec. 50-161. - Application to judge of probate court; imposition of fees; scope of license.
Every peddler or itinerant trader, by sample or otherwise, shall apply for a license to the judge of the probate court, which license shall be granted to him on the terms the judge of the probate court may impose. The judge is authorized to impose such license fee as he may deem advisable, which fee shall be used for county purposes. The license shall extend only to the limits of the county.
(Code 1987, § 10-50)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1.
Secs. 50-162—5-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - ENERGY EXCISE TAX[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2013-02 , §§ 1—8, adopted Oct. 16, 2012, added provisions to the Code, but did not specify manner of inclusion; hence, codification as art. IV, §§ 50-181—50-188 was at the editor's discretion.

Sec. 50-181. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the terms: "dealer;" "energy;" "local sales and use tax;" and "purchaser" shall have the same meanings as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-110.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , § 1, 10-16-2012)
Sec. 50-182. - Imposition; rate; remitting; recovery; liabilities.
In accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-110 et seq., there is imposed within the territorial limits of the special district created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-111, an excise tax on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy when such sale, use, storage, or consumption would have constituted a taxable event for purposes of sales and use tax under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq., but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , § 2, 10-16-2012)
Sec. 50-183. - Excise tax rate; phase-in.
(a)
Such excise tax shall be levied and collected by the governing authority of Troup County pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-112 and 48-13-114 and as provided in this section.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the rate of such excise tax shall be phased in over a four-year period as follows:
(1)
For the period commencing January 1, 2013, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2013, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 25 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2;
(2)
For the period commencing January 1, 2014, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2014, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 50 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2;
(3)
For the period commencing January 1, 2015, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2015, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 75 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2; and
(4)
On or after January 1, 2016, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 100 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2.
(c)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2(c)(4), if a project of regional significance under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3(92) is started in the special district, it shall not be subject to the phase-in period contained in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b) of this section, and the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy in connection therewith shall be subject to the rate specified in paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of this section notwithstanding the January 1, 2016 limitation in that paragraph (4).
(d)
(1)
Following such initial imposition during the phase-in time period, on or after January 1, 2016, the rate of the excise tax levied and collected by the governing authority of Troup County shall be directed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-112(d). Such rate shall be controlled by the maximum amount of local sales and use tax in effect in the special district, but in no event more than two percent.
(2)
In the event the total rate of local sales and use taxes in effect in the special district decreases from two percent to one percent, the rate of the excise tax under this article shall likewise be reduced at the same time such local sales and use tax rate reduction becomes effective.
(3)
In the event the total rate of local sales and use taxes in effect in the special district increases from one percent to two percent, the rate of the excise tax under this article shall likewise be increased at the same time such local sales and use tax rate increase becomes effective.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , § 3, 10-16-2012)
Sec. 50-184. - Imposition; remittance; recovery.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. §48-13-112(c), such excise tax shall be:
(1)
Imposed only at the time sales and use tax on the sale or use of such energy would have been due and payable under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-30 but for the exemption under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2;
(2)
Due and payable in the same manner as would be required under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq., except as other provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-110 et seq.;
(3)
A debt of the purchaser of energy until it is paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as authorized for the recovery of other debts;
(4)
Remitted to the governing authority of Troup County by the dealer collecting such excise tax; and
(5)
A liability of the dealer at the applicable rate on the charges actually collected or the amount of excise taxes collected from purchasers, whichever is greater.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , § 4, 10-16-2012)
Sec. 50-185. - Exemption certificates.
(a)
The governing authority of Troup County, or the collecting officer appointed under section 50-188 of this article, shall make diligent efforts to identify all energy providers and purchasers in the special district and to ascertain whether such a purchaser has completed a uniform exemption certificate provided from the website of the Georgia Department of Revenue seeking to qualify such purchaser for the exemption under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-3.2. Such certificate shall be utilized by such governing authority or collecting officer for the purpose of determining the applicability of the excise tax under this article.
(b)
An energy provider shall be authorized to rely upon such uniform exemption certificates. No penalty shall attach to such provider for failure to collect the excise tax under this article when it has properly collected and remitted local sales and use taxes on such energy where the purchaser would have qualified for the uniform exemption certificate but failed to apply for such certificate or where the purchaser received such certificate but failed to file it with the energy provider.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , § 5, 10-16-2012)
Sec. 50-186. - Commencement of collections.
The excise tax imposed pursuant to this article shall become effective on January 1, 2013, and shall be due and payable to the governing authority of Troup County monthly on or before the twentieth day of every month and each respective month in which such taxes are collected, and payment shall be accompanied by a return for the preceding monthly period showing the gross sales and purchases arising from all sales and purchases taxable under this article during the preceding calendar month.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , § 6, 10-16-2012)
Sec. 50-187. - Allocation, distribution, and expenditure of proceeds.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-114(b), the excise tax proceeds shall be allocated and distributed by the governing authority of Troup County at the end of each calendar month. An amount equal to one percent of such proceeds collected by Troup County shall be paid into the general fund of Troup County to defray the costs of collection and administration.
(b)
The remainder shall be distributed in accordance with the intergovernmental agreement as required under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-114(b) and (c). Within 30 days following the end of each calendar month, the remainder shall be distributed to the general fund of Troup County and the general fund of each participating municipality in accordance with the applicable provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-114(c)(1) or (2) as follows:
(1)
If two local sales and use taxes are in effect in the special district, an amount equal to one-half of the proceeds shall be distributed to the general fund of Troup County and the general fund of each participating municipality located in the county according to the same proportionate share as specified under the distribution provisions of the first local sales and use tax and an amount equal to one-half of the proceeds of the excise tax shall be distributed to the general fund of Troup County and the general fund of each participating municipality located in such county according to the same proportionate share as specified under the distribution provisions of the second local sales and use tax; or
(2)
If only one such local sales and use tax is in effect in the special district, then the proceeds of the excise tax shall be distributed to the general fund of Troup County and the general fund of each participating municipality located in the county according to the same proportionate share as specified under the distribution provisions of the local sales and use tax.
(c)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, proceeds of the excise tax deposited in the general fund of Troup County may be expended for any lawful purpose as determined by the governing authority of Troup County.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , § 7, 10-16-2012)
Sec. 50-188. - Administrative provisions; audits; examinations; collecting officer.
(a)
The governing authority of Troup County shall be authorized to designate a collecting officer for collection and administration of the excise tax under this article.
(b)
The collecting officer shall be authorized to provide for procedures necessary to the proper implementation of this article, including, but not limited to, periodic auditing of dealers collecting and remitting the excise tax. The collecting officer, or the designee of the collecting officer, is specifically authorized to examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, or other facilities of any purchaser which is required to remit the excise tax under this article.
(c)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-118, as part of the audit report required under O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7, the auditor shall include, in a separate schedule, a report of the revenues pertaining to the excise tax under this article.
( Ord. No. 2013-02 , § 8, 10-16-2012)
