Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 16; fire prevention and protection, ch. 18; floods, ch. 20; health and sanitation, ch. 22; planning, ch. 30; solid waste, ch. 32; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 34; utilities, ch. 40; building sewers, § 40-81 et seq.; land development, zoning ordinance and subdivision regulations, app. A.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Minimum standard codes for construction.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2.25(a), the latest edition of the Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes for Construction, as adopted and amended by the state department of community affairs, shall constitute the technical codes applicable and enforced in the city by the building department/building official subject to the administrative procedures incorporated in this chapter.
(Ord. of 11-9-1979, §§ 1—3; Code 1987, §§ 5-1—5-7; Ord. of 10-7-1991; Ord. of 9-5-1995; Ord. No. 2002-7, § 5-1, 6-10-2002; Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Sec. 8-2. - Administrative procedures.
(a)
There are hereby established procedures that shall be known as the City Administrative Procedures for the Enforcement of the Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes. The procedures are not set out in this chapter but are on file and available for inspection in the city offices. These procedures shall govern the administration and enforcement of all referenced technical codes, standards and requirements as set forth in section 8-1 unless otherwise noted. Copies of the technical codes, standards, administrative procedures and requirements shall be kept in the building official's office and the city clerk's office for review by the public.
(b)
Subsection (a) of this section shall be administered by the building official. The building official shall have the power to take action against all violations as established in the administrative procedures adopted in subsection (a) of this section. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the city from contracting with a qualified professional or professionals to perform the duties, administration and responsibilities of the building official and such professional(s) shall have full power and authority under this chapter and as stated in the state minimum codes to perform all duties therein.
(Ord. No. 2002-7, § 5-2, 6-10-2002; Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 8-3. - Conflict between technical codes.
Whenever two or more technical codes adopted by reference by the city in this chapter are in conflict with each other, the building official is authorized to designate which code provision shall be applicable. In making such determination, the building official shall take into consideration the reasonableness of the provisions with respect to the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. No. 2002-7, § 5-3, 6-10-2002; Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Sec. 8-4. - Permitting and inspection; liability.
The inspection or permitting of any building, system, or plan, under the requirements of construction codes shall not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system or plan or their adequacy. Neither the City of Byron, nor any employee thereof, shall be liable in tort for damages for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such, which may occur subsequent to such inspection or permitting.
(Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Sec. 8-5. - Penalties.
Any person, firm, corporation or agent who shall violate a provision of the construction codes, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect, construct, alter, install, demolish or move any structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired, moved or demolished a building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, in violation of a detailed statement or drawing submitted and permitted thereunder, shall be in violation of this article. Each such person shall be considered to have committed a separate violation for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of the construction codes is committed or continued, and upon a finding in municipal court of any such violation such person shall be punished within the limits and as provided by the city charter and state laws.
(Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Secs. 8-6—8-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MINIMUM HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS FOR PRE-OWNED MANUFACTURED HOMES

Sec. 8-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms or phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
Applicant means any person seeking to install a pre-owned manufactured home in the city limits of the City of Byron.
Building inspector means the person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the director of planning, permits and inspections; the municipal building official or any of his or her assistants.
Certificate of occupancy means a document issued by the building inspector certifying that a pre-owned manufactured home is in compliance with applicable requirements set forth by this article, and indicating it to be in a condition suitable for residential occupancy.
Guarantee of condition bond means a surety bond to guarantee that the affidavit and photographs required by subsections 8-22(1)a. and b. of this article, reasonably portray or represents the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured home proposed for relocation. In lieu of the bond, a cash deposit may be deposited with the city.
Install means to construct a foundation system and to place or erect a manufactured home on such foundation system. Such term includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such manufactured home.
Jurisdiction means the areas within the city limits of the City of Byron, Georgia.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. § 5401 et seq.
Pre-owned manufactured home means any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, 2-14-2011; Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Sec. 8-21. - Conditions.
All pre-owned manufactured homes located in the jurisdiction shall bear a label certifying it was constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. § 5401 et seq. (the HUD Code) and shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, 2-14-2011; Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Sec. 8-22. - Permitting, inspection, certificate of occupancy and fees.
A permit shall be required to locate a pre-owned manufactured home in the jurisdiction.
(1)
Permit. To obtain a permit, applicants shall provide to the building inspector:
a.
An affidavit signed by the applicant that the pre-owned manufactured home meets health and safety standards required by this Act;
b.
Photographs of the interior and exterior of the pre-owned manufactured home providing evidence that home meets the minimum health and safety standards of section 8-23 of this article;
c.
A $750.00 refundable guarantee of condition bond or $750.00 refundable cash deposit; and
d.
The permit and inspection fee required by subsection (4) of this section.
(2)
Inspection. Upon receipt of a permit, applicants may relocate the manufactured home on a residential site for the purposes of inspection. Applicant shall arrange for an inspection to be held once the installation of the manufactured home is complete.
(3)
Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued to the applicant at such time that the building inspector certifies that the requirements of this article have been met.
(4)
Fee. A permit and inspection fee of $0.30 times the square footage of the manufactured home shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost to the city to process the permit application and inspect the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee shall cover the initial inspection and one follow up inspection. The applicant shall be charged an additional inspection fee of $0.15 times the square footage of the manufactured home for each additional follow up inspection that may be necessary.
(5)
Alternative inspection. At the request of the applicant, the building inspector may, at his or her discretion, inspect a pre-owned manufactured home prior to its being relocated if the home is then located at another site within the city.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, 2-14-2011; Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Sec. 8-23. - Minimum health and safety standards.
All preowned manufactured homes shall comply with the following before being issued a certificate of occupancy by the building inspector:
(1)
HUD Code. Every pre-owned manufactured home located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401—5445 (the HUD Code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD Code.
(2)
Interior condition. Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sound condition. Doors and windows shall be operable, watertight and in good working condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration.
(3)
Exterior condition. The exterior of all pre-owned manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
(4)
Sanitary facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
(5)
Heating systems. Heating shall be safe and in working condition. Unvented heaters shall be prohibited.
(6)
[Electrical systems.] Electrical systems (switches, receptacles, fixtures, etc.) shall be properly installed and wired and shall be in working condition. Distribution panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers, with all unused openings covered with solid covers approved and listed for that purpose. The home shall be subject to an electrical continuity test to assure that all metallic parts are properly bonded. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain a water heater in safe and working order.
(7)
Hot water supply. Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and working condition.
(8)
Egress windows. Each bedroom of a manufactured home shall have at least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress if necessary.
(9)
Ventilation. The kitchen in the home shall have at least one operating window or other ventilation device.
(10)
Smoke detectors. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain one operable battery-powered smoke detector in each bedroom and in the kitchen, which must be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, 2-14-2011; Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Sec. 8-24. - Enforcement.
(a)
Permanent connection to utilities shall not be approved until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
(b)
Owners of pre-owned manufactured homes that are not in compliance upon a third inspection shall have their permit revoked and shall be required to remove the home from the jurisdiction at their own expense.
(c)
The guarantee of condition bond or cash deposit will be forfeited after 90 days from the date of inspection, unless all conditions and standards are met prior to the end of the 90 days or an extension has been issued in writing by the building inspector.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, 2-14-2011; Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Sec. 8-25. - Penalties.
Failure to remove a pre-owned manufactured home from the jurisdiction upon failure to receive a certificate of occupancy shall be punishable by a fine of $500.00. Each day any violation under this article continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2011-2, 2-14-2011; Ord. No. 2021-8 , 6-14-2021)
Secs. 8-26—8-50. - Reserved.
