ARTICLE II. - AMUSEMENT ARCADES AND DEVICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2021-9 , adopted July 12, 2021, amended art. II in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former art. II, §§ 10-31—10-34, and 10-56—10-59, pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from an ordinance adopted 10-14-1982(2), §§ 82-1—82-5, 82-6, 82-7(a)—(f), 82-8, 82-13; and the Code of 1987, §§ 12-20—12-27.
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 4; taxation, ch. 36; occupation tax, § 36-31 et seq.; utilities, ch. 40; C-1 district: general commercial area (highway service), app. A, pt. IV, § 6; C-2 district: downtown business district, app. A, pt. IV, § 7; C-3 PUD district: general commercial, app. A, pt. IV, § 8; I-1 district: general industrial area, app. A, pt. IV, § 9.

Sec. 10-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bona fide coin operated amusement machine shall have the same definition as found in O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70.
Business location means the entire office or area of the business in any one location owned or leased by the same proprietor or proprietors where the lessor or lessors allow the space to be used for business purposes.
Class B machine shall have the same definition as found in O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70.
Location owner or location operator means an owner or operator of a business where one or more bona fide coin operated amusement machines are available for commercial use and play by the public, or shall have the same definition as found in O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70, should that definition differ.
Operator means any person, individual, firm, company, association, corporation, or other business entity who exhibits, displays, or permits to be exhibited or displayed, in a place of business other than his own, any bona fide coin operated amusement machine in this state, or shall have the same definition as found in O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70, should that definition differ.
Owner means any person, individual, firm, company, association, corporation, or other business entity owning any bona fide coin operated amusement machine in this state or shall have the same definition as found in O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70, should that definition differ.
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-32. - Prohibition on class B devices.
Location owners and location operators are prohibited from offering more than six class B machines at one business location within the city.
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-33. - Location owner and location operator notice.
The owner and/or possessor of each bona fide coin operated amusement machine that rewards the player exclusively as described in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d) with a machine located within the jurisdiction of the city is required to inform the location owner and/or location operator of each business location in which one of the machine owner's machines is located of the prohibitions and penalties set out in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(e), (f), and (g).
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-34. - Employee notice.
The location owner and/or location operator of each business location which offers to the public the use of a bona fide coin operated amusement machines which rewards the player exclusively as described in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(d) with a machine located within the jurisdiction of the city is required to inform all employees of that business in which one of the machine is located of the prohibitions and penalties set out in O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(e), (f), and (g).
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-35. - License suspension and revocation; penalties.
(a)
The city may suspend or revoke the license of any location owner or location operator to manufacture, distribute, or sell alcoholic beverages in the city, or any other license granted by the city, as a penalty for the conviction of the location owner or location operator of a violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(e), (f), or (g) or for violation of one or more provisions of this division. Violation of any provision of this division may also be punished in accordance with the section 1-8 of this Code.
(b)
The city may suspend or revoke the license of any location owner or location operator of any other license granted by the city as a penalty for the conviction of the location owner or location operator of a violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(e), (f), or (g).
(c)
The suspension or revocation of licenses under this section, or other penalties imposed, shall be in accordance with the following guidelines of due process:
(1)
No license shall be suspended or revoked pursuant to this section except for due cause and after hearing and upon prior three-day written notice to the holder of the license of the time, place and purpose of the hearing and a statement of the charges upon which the hearing shall be held, unless such hearing has been waived pursuant to stipulation as provided under subpart (8) of this subsection. Such notice shall provide the reasons for the suspension or revocation sought and shall be mailed or delivered to the holder of the license.
(2)
The term "due cause" for the purposes of this section shall include, but not be limited to:
a.
Violation by the location owner or location operator of any provision of this division; and/or
b.
Conviction of the location owner or location operator of a violation of subsection (e), (f), or (g) of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35.
(3)
Notice of suspension or revocation proceedings shall be served on the person named as licensee in the application. Notice shall be in writing. The notice may be served personally or by first class mail. If by mail, the notice shall be addressed to the licensee at its address as provided by the licensee to the city. The burden shall be on the licensee to provide notice, in writing, of any change of address for service of notices and process. In the case of service by mail of any notice required by this chapter, the service is complete at the time of deposit in the United States Postal Service.
(4)
The hearing shall be conducted by a judge of the Municipal Court of Byron.
(5)
Hearings shall be only as formal as necessary to preserve order and shall be compatible with the principles of justice. The city shall bear the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that due cause exists to suspend or revoke the license. At the hearing the licensee shall have the right to represent itself or be represented by counsel, may cross examine all witnesses offered by the city, and may call witnesses and present evidence in its own behalf. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply to hearings under this section, although the judge shall have the right to exclude evidence which carries no indicia of reliability. All testimony shall be offered under oath or affirmation.
(6)
The judge shall make his or her final determination within ten business days of the completion of the hearing. The decision shall be placed in writing and contain the judge's findings of fact, conclusions of law, and decision as to sanction, if any. Such sanction may include one or more of the following: Revocation of the license, suspension of the license for no more than 12 months, imposition of a probationary period not to exceed 12 months, and/or a civil monetary penalty as provided in the general penalty section of the city Charter or Code. Progressive sanctions, depending on the severity of the violation, are encouraged but not required. Where the remaining term of the license is less than 12 months, imposition of suspension or probation for a period in excess of the term of the existing license shall be applied to any renewal license. A subsequent violation within a probationary period shall be cause for revocation and/or denial of license renewal. A total of three separate and unrelated violations within 24 months, whether or not within a probationary period, shall be grounds for permanent revocation.
(7)
The judge's decision shall be personally served or mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested to the licensee and his attorney, with a copy to the city attorney, within ten business days of the close of the hearing. The decision of the judge shall constitute final action by the city, subject to review upon petition for certiorari to the superior court.
(8)
Upon receipt of notice of adverse action against the licensee under this section, the licensee may waive its right to a hearing and stipulate to a sanction, as recommended by city council. Any stipulation entered under this subsection shall be in writing, signed by the licensee, and non-appealable.
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-36. - Monthly reports; gross receipts.
(a)
A location owner or location operator subject to O.C.G.A. § 50-27-84(c) is hereby required to provide a copy of the monthly verified report required by such code section to the commission. Such report shall indicate the monthly gross retail receipts for each business location located in the City of Byron and shall be due by the 21st day of each month, subsequent to the month in which the sales have taken place. The city shall be entitled to conduct an annual audit of such reports and the location owner or location operator shall make its books reasonably available for such purpose upon request of the city clerk.
(b)
No location owner or location operator may derive more than 50 percent of such location owner's or location operator's monthly gross retail receipts for this business location in which the class B machines are situated from such class B machines.
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-37. - Posting of signs.
Any location owner or location operator with a business location within the city which offers to the public one or more bona fide coin operated amusement machines is hereby required to post prominently a notice, in the vicinity of such coin operated amusement machines, including the following or substantially similar language:
Georgia law prohibits payment or receipt of money for winning a game or games on this amusement machine; payment or receipt of money for free replays won on this amusement machine; payment or receipt of money for any merchandise, prize, toy, gift certificate, or novelty won on this amusement machine; or a warding any merchandise, prize, toy, gift certificate, or novelty of a value exceeding $5.00 for a single play on this machine.
Any such notice shall be at least 11.5 inches by 17.5 inches in size. Words and letters shall be in bold print and shall be at least one centimeter in size.
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-38. - Minimum distance requirements.
Any business location which offers to the public one or more bona fide coin operated amusement machines may not be located within 100 yards of any church building, within 200 yards of any school building, educational building, school grounds or college campus, within 100 yards of any alcoholic treatment center, or within 100 yards of any housing authority property.
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-39. - Disclosure of machine owner.
Any location owner or location operator seeking to locate a business within the jurisdiction of the city and offer to the public one or more bona fide coin operated amusement machines must first submit in writing the name, physical address and mailing address of the owner of the bona fide coin operated amusement machine to the city clerk before any occupational tax certificate or license granted by the city is issued or renewed.
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-40. - Location of machines.
Any location owner or location operator who offers to the public one or more bona fide coin operated amusement machines is required as a condition of doing business in the jurisdiction of the city to locate each and every bona fide coin operated amusement machine in plain view and accessible to any person who is at the business location.
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Sec. 10-41. - Posting of privilege license or occupation tax certificate.
Any location owner or location operator who offers to the public one or more bona fide coin operated amusement machines is required as a condition of doing business in the jurisdiction of the city to post its privilege license and/or occupation tax certificate, whichever it is required by this Code to obtain, in a conspicuous place in the location owner or location operator's place of business at which such machine(s) is offered and leave it there at all times.
(Ord. No. 2021-9 , 7-12-2021)
Secs. 10-42—10-90. - Reserved.
