ARTICLE VII. - BROADBAND READY COMMUNITY

Sec. 40-230. - [Definitions.]
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Applicant means a person applying for a permit for a broadband network project.
Broadband network project means any deployment of broadband services.
Permit means any local permit, license, certificate approval, registration, or similar form of approval required by policy, administrative rule, regulation, ordinance, or resolution with respect to a broadband network project.
Political subdivision means a county, municipal corporation, consolidated government, or local authority.
(Ord. No. 2020-4 , 5-11-2020)
Sec. 40-231. - Single point of contact.
[The] City of Byron, Georgia, shall appoint a single point of contact for all matters related to a broadband network project.
(1)
The single point of contact documentation shall include:
a.
Position and title: Director of Building, Planning and Zoning;
b.
Name: Tiffany Sandefur;
c.
Organization: City of Byron Building, Planning and Zoning;
d.
Phone number: (478)956-5555;
e.
Email(s): tsandefur@byronga.com;
(2)
The single point of contact shall be available for matters related to a broadband network project or a related liaison who may direct such inquiry in real time, with general scope and responsibilities to include permitting and right-of-way; and
(3)
The single point of contact information must be current to maintain designation, by updating with such change in contact information on web pages and associated sources, within 15 calendar days of change.
(Ord. No. 2020-4 , § (1), 5-11-2020)
Sec. 40-232. - Application completeness review.
(a)
[The] City of Byron shall determine whether an application is incomplete and notify the applicant, by email, of the determination by the City of Byron within ten calendar days of receiving an application.
(b)
If the City of Byron does not respond to the applicant on whether the application is incomplete within ten days, the application shall be assumed to be complete on the 11th day.
(Ord. No. 2020-4 , § (2), 5-11-2020)
Sec. 40-233. - Notification of incomplete application.
(a)
If the City of Byron determines that an application is not complete, the notification by email to the applicant shall specify all required components of the submitted application that were considered "incomplete."
(b)
The City of Byron's response shall include a checklist of sequenced items that resulted in the application being deemed "incomplete" and the review timeline shall be as follows:
(1)
The applicant has up to 40 calendar days from the date of notification of incompleteness to respond back with corrections; and
(2)
If the applicant does not respond back within 40 calendar days, the application is deemed cancelled.
(c)
If within ten calendar days the City of Byron does not respond to the applicant on whether the corrected application is incomplete, the application shall be assumed to be complete on the 11th day; and
(d)
The City of Byron shall require a new submission and reset the process and application fees, should an application be deemed incomplete a second time.
(Ord. No. 2020-4 , § (3), 5-11-2020)
Sec. 40-234. - Approval or denial notification.
If, on or before the 11th day as described in section 40-232(b), an application is deemed complete, the City of Byron shall approve or deny an application within ten calendar days, unless a joint meeting between the applicant and the City of Byron is deemed necessary.
(a)
If a joint meeting is deemed necessary, the joint meeting must occur within 15 calendar days of notification of completion and the joint meeting shall include:
(1)
Where applicant is going to conduct work;
(2)
When the work will be conducted;
(3)
What type of work will be done;
(4)
Who the City of Byron can contact for specific details or related questions; and
(5)
Any permit seeking approval under application.
(6)
Following a joint meeting between the applicant and the City of Byron, the City of Byron shall deny or approve the application within ten calendar days.
(b)
Upon final approval, any required permit permitted shall be deemed issued.
(Ord. No. 2020-4 , § (4), 5-11-2020)
Sec. 40-235. - Related fees.
(a)
Any fee imposed by the City of Byron to review an application, issue a permit, or perform any other activity related to a broadband network project shall be reasonable, cost based, and nondiscriminatory to all applicants.
(b)
Any application fee that exceeds $100.00 shall be considered unreasonable unless the City of Byron can provide documentation justifying such fee based on a specific cost.
(Ord. No. 2020-4 , § (5), 5-11-2020)
Sec. 40-236. - Other information.
(a)
Double fee. No city or county shall require an application or permit(s) when already approved by an authorized state or federal jurisdiction. Provider shall notify and provide a copy of the approved permit to the single-point-of-contact at the city or county prior to access of right-of-way within the city or county jurisdiction.
(b)
Application validity timeline. Any approved application shall be valid for six months from the date of approval. Should a provider not commence the service request qualified in the approved application within six months, the application shall expire, and it shall require a new permit approval and any associated fees, as applicable.
(c)
Single service drop. A city or county shall not require a permit for a broadband service provider to perform an installation of broadband service at an individual customer's service address as long as the facility being utilized only transverses a deminimis portion of the public right-of-way to reach the customer's property. The provider must still comply with the provisions of Chapter 9 of Title 25 of the O.C.G.A.
(Ord. No. 2020-4 , § (6), 5-11-2020)
