Chapter 25 - COURTS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 25-1—25-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SAFEGUARDING OF MINORS AND INCAPACITATED ADULTS

Sec. 25-26. - [Enactment.]
This article is enacted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 35-3-35(a)(1), the Georgia Umbrella Statute entitled "Disclosure and dissemination of records to public agencies and political subdivisions, responsibility and liability of issuing center".
(Ord. No. 2008-O-002, § 1, 4-1-08)
Sec. 25-27. - [Purpose.]
The purpose of this article shall be to carry out consent criminal histories in guardianship and conservatorship proceedings involving minors and incapacitated adults in the Cherokee County Probate Court.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-002, § 2, 4-1-08)
Sec. 25-28. - [Access authorized; usage regulations.]
(a)
The Cherokee County Probate Court is hereby authorized to access national criminal history record information (CHRI) pursuant to said statute, the same being based upon submission of fingerprints, which is considered consent by the F.B.I.
(b)
Access to criminal histories is limited to staff members of the Cherokee County Probate Court who are certified in security and integrity and whose certification is renewed every two years as required by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI).
(c)
The usage of the GCIC terminal shall be in compliance with GBI and FBI regulations at all times, which access may be for the purpose of carrying out name-based Georgia record checks or obtaining confirmation of the removal of said warning flags where the record was corrected.
(1)
Information obtained and handled for any purposes pursuant to this article shall comply with all Georgia laws and the Federal Privacy Act.
(2)
No information given as part of the request for a criminal history and no record obtained pursuant to this article may be entered on a data base.
(3)
No information given or obtained pursuant to this article shall be subject to the Open Records Act.
(4)
Documents received as a result of a record request in guardianship and conservatorship proceedings in the probate court shall be destroyed pursuant to the requirements of the state's retention schedule; however, in the event of a discharge or termination of a guardianship or conservatorship, these records may be destroyed at the time of the discharge or termination.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-002, §§ 3—9, 4-1-08)
Sec. 25-29. - [Administration; fees; procedures.]
(a)
Where the probate court determines that a national criminal history is necessary, two sets of fingerprints shall be given, which fingerprints may be taken by the Cherokee County Sheriff's Department or by the Cherokee County Probate Court upon installing a live-scan fingerprinting unit.
(b)
The record applicant will bear the cost of: (1) fingerprinting if carried out by the sheriff; (2) the charge by the GBI and FBI for the CHRI history at its latest rate, paid by certified or cashiers check, or money order; and (3) an administrative fee allowed by statute to be charged by the Cherokee County Probate Court, the last of which shall be the maximum allowed by statute, currently $20.00, which fee shall include fingerprinting where carried out by the probate court using live-scan.
(c)
Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the Cherokee County Probate Court will transmit the said fingerprints and appropriate fees (unless a satisfactory billing arrangement has been entered into between the Cherokee County Probate Court and the GCIC and/or FBI) to the GCIC. As provided by law, the GCIC will compare the subject's fingerprints against its criminal file and submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a comparison with nation-wide records, unless submission is automatic pursuant to the use of live-scan. The results of the F.B.I. check will be returned based on its current procedure, presently being directly to the court if submissions are manual to GCIC, or electronically from both the GBI and FBI, where submitted electronically to the GCIC.
(d)
In compliance with Federal law 92-544, which provides for the rendering a "fitness determination," the Cherokee County Probate Court will decide whether the record applicant has been convicted of, or is under pending indictment for: (a) a crime which bears upon his/her ability or fitness to serve in that capacity; (b) any felony or a misdemeanor which involved force or threat of force, controlled substances, or was a sex-related offense; or (c) enumerated disqualifiers.
(e)
A person who has consented to the probate court for a criminal history based on fingerprinting record may request and receive a copy of the criminal history record report from the Cherokee County Probate Court at no additional charge. Should the person seek to amend or correct the record, he or she shall be responsible for contacting the GCIC as to Georgia records and/or the Federal Bureau of Investigation concerning records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.
(Ord. No. 2008-O-002, §§ 10—14, 4-1-08)
