DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-81. - Purpose and scope of article; statutory authority.
(a)
This article is enacted in accordance with a plan designed for the purposes, among others, of promoting the health and general welfare of the community, and to establish reasonable and ascertainable standards for the regulation and control of massage practitioners, peddlers and solicitors, amusement activities, pawnshops, billiard parlors, flea markets, precious metals dealers or shops, and any other business activities that from time to time may require additional police protection and regulation in order to ensure the health and safety of the community.
(b)
This article is enacted pursuant to the authority of 1964 Ga. Laws, page 1024, amendment to the state constitution, to 1967 Ga. Laws, page 914, amendment to the state constitution, and to 1969 Ga. Laws, page 2486.
(c)
The provisions enumerated in article II of this chapter regarding the administration and enforcement of business license regulations apply to all special licenses in addition to the provisions enumerated in this article.
(Res. No. 92-17, § 1.40, 2-28-92)
Sec. 18-82. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverages includes but is not limited to malt beverages, vinous liquors and spirituous liquors.
Amusement activity includes any fair, concert, carnival or sideshow and those activities, rides and games normally associated with such amusements wherein the general public is allowed to view or participate for a price.
Billiard room means any public place with two or more tables on which the game of billiards is permitted to be played.
Billiards means any of the several games played on a table surrounded by an elastic ledge of cushions, with balls which are impelled by a cue, and shall include all forms of the game known as carom billiards, pocket billiards and English billiards. The term shall apply to all tables, both coin-operated and non-coin-operated.
Licensee means any person holding a license issued under this article.
Massage means manipulation of the human body's soft tissue through manual, mechanical or electrical means or similar treatment to the human trunk or limbs.
Massage practitioner includes but is not limited to masseurs, masseuses and massage therapists, and includes any person who manipulates the body's soft tissue through manual, mechanical or electrical massage or similar treatment to the human trunk or limbs. It shall not include any person who diagnoses or performs a service who holds an unlimited license to practice medicine, surgery, chiropractic or podiatry, or an employee, or an athletic trainer, technician or physical therapist who acts under the prescription or supervision of a medical doctor, chiropractor or podiatrist.
Pawn and pledge mean bailment of personal property as security for any debt or engagement, redeemable upon certain terms and with the express or implied power of sale on default.
Pawnshop means any business wherein a well-defined part thereof is to take or receive, by way of pledge, pawn or exchange, any goods, wares or merchandise, or any kind of personal property whatever, as security for the repayment of money lent thereon.
Pool room. See "Billiard room."
(Res. No. 92-17, § 1.91, 2-28-92)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-83. - Approval of board of commissioners required for certain licenses.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business, trade or profession or practice the business, trade or profession of an amusement activity, pawnshop, pool room or massage practitioner before obtaining approval for a license by the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 92-17, § 1.90(a), 2-28-92)
Sec. 18-84. - Compliance with applicable regulations.
(a)
All licenses to engage in the business of an amusement activity, pawnshop, pool room or massage practitioner shall be a mere grant or privilege to carry on such business during the term of the license subject to all the terms and conditions imposed by this article and any other ordinance, resolution or law of the county, state or United States relating to such business.
(b)
All applicants for licenses specified in this section shall be required to sign an acknowledgment that they have received, read and understood the provisions of this article prior to issuance of the license.
(Res. No. 92-17, § 1.90(b), (c), 2-28-92)
Sec. 18-85. - Application for license; issuance of license; license period.
(a)
Applications for a license to engage in the business of an amusement activity, pawnshop, pool room or massage practitioner shall be filed with the business license department on forms as prescribed by the county, and shall meet the standards and specifications enumerated in this article.
(b)
When all the necessary investigations, including those to be made by the county marshal, are completed, the business license department shall transmit the application to the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners shall grant the license if the application and the applicant meet all the requirements of this article. If approved by the board, the business license department shall issue the license. Unless otherwise provided, the license shall be valid for one year from the date that the license is initially approved and issued.
(c)
The decision of the board of commissioners shall be final.
(Res. No. 92-17, § 1.92(a)—(c), 2-28-92; Ord. No. 2016-O-005, exh. A, 8-2-16)
Sec. 18-86. - Renewal of license for pawnshop, pool room or massage practitioner.
All licenses for pawnshops, pool rooms and massage practitioners shall be renewed with the business license office prior to the anniversary of the date that the initial business license was obtained. All pawnshops, pool rooms and massage practitioners that currently possess a business license at the time of adoption of the ordinance from which this section is derived shall renew their business license on or before the expiration date of their current license, and those businesses shall subsequently renew their license prior to the anniversary of the expiration date of their current license.
(Res. No. 92-17, § 1.92(d), 2-28-92)
Sec. 18-87. - Criteria for granting of license.
(a)
No application for any license for amusement activities, massage practitioners, pawnshops and pool rooms shall be granted where the application, or the evidence on a hearing before the board of commissioners, shows any of the following conditions to exist:
(1)
The applicant has had any license issued under the police powers of any county or other governmental subdivision previously suspended or revoked.
(2)
The applicant, as a previous holder of a license for the business or business activity for which he now seeks a license, has violated any law, regulation or ordinance pertaining to such business within a five-year period immediately preceding the date of application.
(3)
The applicant has committed any of the acts enumerated in section 18-54 which constitutes due cause for denial of a license.
(b)
In addition to the conditions listed in subsection (a) of this section, in determining whether or not any license applied for shall be granted, the following shall be considered in the public interest and welfare:
(1)
If the applicant is a previous holder of a license, the manner in which he conducted the business thereunder as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business.
(2)
The location for which the license is sought, as to traffic congestion, general character of the neighborhood and the effect the business would have on the adjacent and surrounding property values.
(3)
The number of licenses already granted for similar businesses in the trading area of and the place for which the license is sought.
(4)
Whether the applicant's spouse is able to meet the qualifications of an applicant, particularly if it appears that the applicant's spouse or another person is using the applicant as a guise or dummy to obtain a license.
(Res. No. 92-17, § 1.93, 2-28-92)
Sec. 18-88. - License fee.
The fees for licenses for amusement activities, pawnshops, pool rooms and massage practitioners shall be as established by the board of commissioners, and shall be available as part of the schedule of fees in the business license department. The board of commissioners may amend or revise these fees from time to time.
(Res. No. 92-17, § 1.94, 2-28-92)
Secs. 18-89—18-110. - Reserved.
