ARTICLE III. - SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Licenses, taxes and business regulations, Ch. 16.
State Law reference— Local authorization and regulations for manufacture, distribution, and package sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-40 et seq.

Sec. 4-81. - Purpose.
In order to comply with an act approved February 3, 1938, (Ga. L. Ex. Sess. 1937-38, p. 103 et seq.), known as the "Revenue Tax Act to Legalize and Control Alcoholic Beverages and Liquors," and the several acts amendatory thereof; to guard against the evils of monopoly and concentration of the retail sale of whiskey of a whole city in any one (1) family or organized group; to prevent control of the retail liquor industry in the city by unfit persons; and to protect schools and churches and give effect to existing land use and preserve certain residential areas of the city, with due consideration of the character of the areas, and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, and the increasing congestion of streets, and with a general view of promoting desirable living conditions and sustaining stability of neighborhoods and property values, the mayor and council ordains and establishes the rules and regulations of this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-76)
Sec. 4-82. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adequate means sufficient.
Applicant means any one (1) or more persons, firms, corporations, or associations, or any combination thereof, applying for a city license, or renewal thereof.
Application includes all applications authorized or required under this article, and they shall all be in writing, signed, dated and sworn to by the applicant, and by all partners, if applicant is a partnership, and by all of the officers, directors and stockholders, if applicant is a corporation.
At may mean in, near, on, within, or about.
Church includes a synagogue and any other place of permanent public religious worship, and shall exist if a building permit therefor has been obtained and substantial building materials or supplies for its construction have been moved to the site, or if construction of the church building has commenced.
College or school means only such state, county, city, church or other colleges or schools as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of this state, but shall not include private schools or colleges wherein only specialized subjects, such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupation or other special subjects are taught.
College, school, library and private dwelling houses exist when building permits and substantial materials or supplies for construction of such houses have been obtained and some materials or supplies moved to the site, or building construction of the house has commenced.
Immediate family or member of immediate family refers to and includes only husband, wife and children.
Inspector or license inspector means the police chief.
Interest or financial interest means a pecuniary interest, and shall include any present or future, whole or partial, legal or beneficial, contingent or vested, direct or indirect, right, power, authority or control of or in any wholesale or retail liquor store, or license for one or an application for such a license in the city. It shall apply to an outright owner, co-owner or member of a partnership or stockholder in a corporation, organized or in process of organization, for pecuniary gain, which owns or is to own any financial interest in a wholesale or retail liquor store or license therefor. It also includes the interest of an owner, lessor, sublessor or partial owner of land or an interest therein, in which a whiskey store is or is to be operated, and all members of a firm or stockholders of a corporation organized for pecuniary gain owning, leasing or subleasing land for or used for or to be used by a licensee under this article if any of the income from the sale of whiskey on such land is shared, or rent on such land is, or is to be paid on the basis of sales of whiskey on such land, and anyone sharing in any income or corpus of any trust fund or estate having an interest in a wholesale or retail whiskey store or license shall be held to have a financial interest in such store or license. Also, it includes a lender of money or other things of value, to a retail liquor store license applicant or licensee, to anyone else for the benefit of such applicant or licensee, on interest in excess of the highest legal rate allowable on this state. But the mere employee-employer relationship of a bona fide employee of a licensee on a definite fixed weekly, monthly or other salary which is not based on liquor sales at the licensee's liquor store, not on sales by the employee, shall not alone create or evidence a financial interest in the liquor store or license therefor.
License means a city retail license granted or issued upon the basis of the alleged truth of a written application therefor to sell spirituous liquors in package liquor store districts in the city, as defined by this article, in use zones designated in this article.
Licensee means the owner of a city license or an interest therein in a liquor store as defined in this article to be operated under such license, or an applicant for such a license after the application for such license shall have been approved by the mayor and council and any renewal thereof.
Liquor or whiskey means spirituous liquors and includes but is not limited to whiskey, rum, gin, brandy, vodka, tequila and all other alcoholic beverages of a like or similar nature or alcoholic content.
Minor means any person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age.
Original when used in connection with an application for a license or renewal or transfer of location, and all other applications not included in the definition under "renewal" relates to the first license for a given location or first use or application for use or change of use of a given location, or to the first application of a given applicant for use of a location previously licensed or approved for a license under this article.
Park means a city public park, and includes all recreational buildings and facilities and grounds owned or leased by the city.
Premises means not only the room wherein a retail liquor store is operated under a license issued under this article but shall include all of the lot whereon such store is located, except when such store is located in a hotel, motel, shopping center, or multiple-store business or office building, it means the liquor store only.
Private dwelling means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one (1) person nor more than two (2) families of persons reside, but does not include an apartment house having facilities for housing three (3) or more families, nor does it include a mobile home.
Renewal when used in connection with an application for a license or a location relates to an unrevoked retail liquor license issued under this article to a designated licensee for a designated location, or expiration of which unrevoked license the identical owners thereof, but no others, may be entitled to a new annual license for the same but no other location.
Residence means domicile.
Sale or sell refers to a sale of spirituous liquor at retail, or to sell such liquor at retail under a license issued under this article.
Satisfactory proof means adequate or sufficient evidence to convince an unbiased, impartial, enlightened judge of the existence or nonexistence of a fact, situation or condition.
Store and liquor store means a room wherein only the sale at retail of spirituous liquors in the original unbroken packages may be authorized under this article and the "Revenue Tax Act to Legalize and Control Alcoholic Beverages and Liquors."
Tense. The present, past and future tense may each include either of the other two.
Wholesale license means a city license granted or issued upon the basis of the alleged truth of a written application therefor to sell spirituous liquors at wholesale to holders of retail licenses issued by the city.
(Code 1966, § 4-77; Ord. No. 1095, § 1, 6-8-87)
Cross reference— Definitions; rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-1.
Sec. 4-83. - Application required.
Any person desiring to sell spirituous liquors (package only) within the city must apply for a license for such purpose from the mayor and council by making written application to the city clerk, in the form and manner prescribed in this article. The application shall be dated, signed by all applicants, and sworn to before a notary public or other person authorized by law to take oaths.
(Code 1966, § 4-78)
Sec. 4-84. - Application information.
(a)
The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all prospective employees shall be shown on the application and in the event of a change of employees, such shall be furnished to the city clerk. All persons employed by licensee shall be of good moral character and twenty-one (21) years of age or older. Each applicant and each employee shall be fingerprinted.
(b)
If the applicant is a corporation the names, addresses and telephone numbers of all stockholders, officers and directors shall be shown on the application and in the event of a change of stockholder, officer or director, the name, address and telephone number of the new stockholder, officer or director shall be promptly furnished to the city clerk.
(Code 1966, § 4-85)
Sec. 4-85. - License requirements.
(a)
The retail licensee and all employees must be persons of good moral character, citizens of the United States, residents of the city for a period of one (1) year next preceding the date of filing application, and twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
(b)
The licensee and all employees shall not have been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor or of any violation of the laws of this state, or any other state relating to the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic beverages or any crime involving moral turpitude. A plea of nolo contendere for any felony or misdemeanor of any state or of the United States or any municipal ordinance, except traffic violations, or a forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime is considered a conviction under this article; provided however, where the violation is for a misdemeanor, forfeiture of bond of municipal ordinance, the mayor and council may waive same as a disqualification.
(c)
The licensee shall be the owner of the premises for which the license is held or the holder of a lease thereon.
(d)
The licensee shall be active in, and solely responsible for, the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted, and shall be responsible for the qualifications and conduct of his employees.
(e)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of his qualifications according to this section and shall file the statement with the city clerk before any license is issued.
(f)
If the application covers a partnership, all members of the partnership must be qualified to obtain a license and make a sworn statement of these qualifications. If the applicant is a corporation, all officers, directors and stockholders of the corporation must meet all requirements of an individual applicant.
(g)
No person shall be granted a license to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages at retail unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the mayor and council that such person or the stockholders, officers and directors of any corporation involved shall be of good moral character.
(h)
Any misstatement or concealment of fact in the application shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued, and shall make the applicant liable to prosecution for perjury under the laws of the state.
(i)
In addition, it shall be unlawful for the applicant or license holder to contract with the owner of premises on which any retail liquor store is located which provides for the payment of rent on a percentage or profit-sharing basis except a nonprofit-sharing corporation, or for the owner of the leased premises in any way to share directly in any other way the profits of the lessee's activity in connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages. Further, the lessor shall not be in or have any other connection with the liquor business.
(j)
No elected or appointed officer or employee or a member of their immediate family of this state or any political subdivision thereof, whether he is a regular full-time officer or employee or merely a part-time, casual or temporary officer or employee, shall own a financial interest in any liquor store or license therefor in this city, or be employed in such store.
(Code 1966, § 4-80)
Sec. 4-86. - Wholesale dealers; excise tax.
Wholesale dealers in alcoholic beverages licensed by the state or the agent of a wholesale dealer shall be granted a license to distribute such beverages in the city only after application for such license to the city clerk and the presentation of satisfactory evidence that he understands this article and the conditions under which retail licenses are issued. All wholesale dealers engaged in the wholesale distribution of spirituous liquors to retail liquor licensees of this city shall pay to the city an excise tax which is on file in the city clerk's office as set from time to time.
(Code 1966, § 4-80)
State Law reference— Local excise tax on sale of distilled spirits by the package, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-50.
Sec. 4-87. - Retail dealer; license fee.
(a)
All retail license fees authorizing the operation of a liquor store in the city during the year 1972 shall cost an amount on file in the city clerk's office and shall expire on December 31, 1972. However, any licensee paying the fee for 1972 shall be entitled to a credit of an amount on file in the city clerk's office on a license for the year 1973 should licensee desire a license for 1973.
(b)
The applicant for a wholesale liquor license shall pay to the city clerk at the time his license is received the sum of an amount on file in the city clerk's office as set from time to time, in cash or certified check as an annual license fee for the operation for the year beginning on the first working day of January of each year. All wholesale licenses shall be issued on an annual basis and are renewable on the annual basis except for the year 1972. The cost of a wholesale license for any part of 1972 shall be on file in the city clerk's office.
(Code 1966, § 4-86)
State Law reference— Maximum license fees for county and municipal licenses for sale of distilled spirits by the package, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-50.
Sec. 4-88. - Retail dealer; excise tax.
(a)
The applicant for a retail liquor license shall pay to the city clerk at the time he files his application for the license a sum to be on file in the city clerk's office as set from time to time. The payment shall be in cash or by certified check as a license fee for the operation for the year beginning on the first working day in January of each year. All licenses shall be issued on an annual basis and are renewable on an annual basis except for licenses for the year 1972. In addition to the foregoing annual license fee, there is hereby levied an excise tax computed at a rate to be on file in the city clerk's office as set from time to time. Such tax shall be paid to the city on all liquors sold, displayed or stored in the city. The tax shall be paid to the city by the wholesale distributor on all liquors sold to retailers in the city as set forth in subsection (b).
(b)
Each wholesale distributor selling, shipping or in any way delivering liquor to any retailer shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the tax together with a summary of all deliveries to each retailer on or before the tenth day of the month following. The tax shall be prorated up or down on all containers and bottles so that each bottle or each individual size container shall be taxed on a per liter basis. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesale distributor to sell, ship or deliver in any manner any liquor to a retailer without having collected the tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any retailer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any liquor on which such tax has not been paid.
(Code 1966, § 4-86)
Sec. 4-89. - Prohibited activities.
No holder of a license in the city nor any agent or employee of the licensee shall do any of the following upon the licensed premises:
(1)
Sell alcoholic beverages to a minor;
(2)
Sell alcoholic beverages to any person while such person is in an intoxicated condition;
(3)
Sell alcoholic beverages upon the licensed premises on any day or at any time when such sale is prohibited by law;
(4)
Sell any goods, wares or merchandise except mixes and alcoholic beverages;
(5)
Permit on the licensed premises any disorderly conduct, breach of peace or any lewd, immoral, improper entertainment, conduct or practice;
(6)
Permit consumption of alcoholic beverages upon the licensed premises at any time;
(7)
Purchase any alcoholic beverages from any wholesaler who does not have a valid permit and license from the city;
(8)
Permit any person in the room where alcoholic beverages are located on any day or at any time when the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by law except for regular paid employees of the licensee.
(Code 1966, § 4-81)
Cross reference— Penalties for sale to minors, § 4-54.1
Sec. 4-90. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, sell or possess for the purpose of sale, any alcoholic beverages where such person does not have a license from the city to sell or possess for sale such beverages.
(Code 1966, § 4-82)
State Law reference— Local license required for the sale of alcoholic beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Sec. 4-91. - Transportation.
Alcoholic beverages shall be received at or delivered to the premises of the retail licensee by no means other than conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a license from the mayor and council to make deliveries in the city. Transportation of alcoholic beverages by any other means shall be grounds for revocation of retail license or wholesale license. No retail sales or deliveries of alcoholic beverages shall be made except in the liquor store in which such sales and deliveries are authorized.
(Code 1966, § 4-83)
Sec. 4-92. - Hours of sale.
(a)
Dealers in package sales of alcoholic beverages shall not engage in the sale of such beverages except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on weekdays, including Saturdays, and shall not permit their places of business to be opened for the sale of such beverages on Sundays, or at any other days or times prohibited by state law.
(b)
The business hours of wholesale dealers shall be from sunup to sundown on all days the retail dealers are authorized to sell alcoholic beverages.
(Code 1966, § 4-8; Res. of 4-14-86)
Editor's note— At the discretion of the editor, § 4-92(a) was amended by deleting the prohibition on sale of spirituous liquors on election days within the city, pursuant to the intent of a resolution effective April 14, 1986. Such resolution was included herein as a new § 4-01.
Cross reference— Sale of spirituous liquors on election days, § 4-01.
Sec. 4-93. - Retail dealers, regulations on premises.
(a)
No retail dealer shall permit at his place of business any slot machines or mechanical music machines or pinball machines of any kind or character.
(b)
Retailers shall indicate plainly the price of all liquors exposed for sale by tags and labels on the bottles or containers or on the shelf immediately below where the containers are placed, except as provided in section 4-90.
(c)
The city license shall at all times be kept plainly exposed to view at the place of business of the licensee.
(d)
No screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the window or upon the doors of such licensed premises which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such premises from the street or road at all times, and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction shall be permitted within the interior of such licensed premises and the premises shall be so lighted that the interior of the store is plainly visible from the street or road day and night.
(Code 1966, § 4-85)
Sec. 4-94. - Location of premises.
(a)
No license shall be issued to any dealer where the place of business of the licensee is located within one hundred (100) yards of any public library or branch thereof, or within one hundred (100) yards of any church or city park or within two hundred (200) yards of a school ground or college campus.
(b)
The distance set out in subsection (a) shall be ascertained by measuring the distance in a straight line in linear feet from the proposed liquor store lot to the nearest ground area on which is located a library, church, school ground or college campus. Provided, however, that if the liquor store is located in a shopping center, the distance shall be measured from the side of the building in which the liquor store is located.
(Code 1966, § 4-87)
Cross reference— Parks and recreation, Ch. 19.
Sec. 4-95. - Execution of application.
All applications for licenses and renewals thereof shall be executed under oath and shall contain a full and complete sworn statement of all material facts which tend to show whether the applicants or any members of their immediate families own a financial interest in any other liquor license, liquor store or liquor business, in the county or in any county adjoining the county and what interest they, and each of them, will have in the licensed store or business for which the license is sought in this city, and their full name, age and street and post office addresses and proof that they and all who shall have an interest in such store, license or business in this city are persons of good moral character and are entitled, on the date of such application, to the license applied for under the provisions of this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-88)
Sec. 4-96. - Transfer of location.
Applications for transfer of liquor store locations shall be subject to the same rules and regulations, so far as they are applicable, which apply to an application for an original license. If an application for transfer of location is approved, no pro rata return of the annual license fee shall be allowed, unless such transfer shall have been for some valid reason initiated by the mayor and council or some other agency of the city; except in such latter case a new license shall be required for the new location and a new annual license fee, without any refund or rebate of any of the annual license fee, paid for the old location.
(Code 1966, § 4-88)
Sec. 4-97. - Investigation.
A copy of all applications of whatever kind authorized or required under this article shall be promptly referred to the police committee for a thorough investigation and written report of its findings to the mayor and council. But police committee shall not make any recommendation in or with such report, except on the results of its investigation of a renewal application when no timely objection to such application has been filed.
(Code 1966, § 4-89)
State Law reference— Fingerprinting and criminal background check required for issuance of local alcoholic beverage licenses, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Sec. 4-98. - Investigation fee.
An investigation fee on file as set from time to time in the city clerk's office shall be paid per person in cash or certified check to the city clerk with each application for an original license under this article. An applicant must pay the whole annual license fee when filing an application for such license. If denied a license by the state or by the city after completion of the investigation, then upon proof of such denial, such applicant shall be entitled to a refund of all money theretofore paid to the city in connection with such license application, except such investigation fee required in this section. Any refund may be made by the city clerk without further action of the mayor and council.
(Code 1966, § 4-90)
Sec. 4-99. - Payment of fees.
All licenses and renewal thereof must be obtained and all fees paid by the applicants therefor by certified check or cash at time of filing application. If application is not approved, the license fee shall be refunded. No sales shall be made after expiration of a license, or renewal thereof, unless a further renewal has been issued and paid for or the life of the expiring license has been extended as authorized by this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-91)
Sec. 4-100. - Corporation, partnership applications.
(a)
Where the applicant is a corporation or club the license, if issued, shall be issued in the name of the corporation or club and all of its officers, directors and stockholders having the citizenship, residence, and other qualification requirements of this article. If the applicant is a partnership, such requirement shall apply to all partners.
(b)
An application of a partnership or similar group of not over ten (10) persons shall be signed and sworn to by all of its members, and of a corporation by its officers, stockholders and directors and all of whom must meet the citizenship, residence and other qualifications and requirements of this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-92)
Sec. 4-101. - Public hearing.
No application of any kind or nature except an application for a license renewal shall be granted or approved by the mayor and council until after a public hearing has been held thereon by the mayor and council after due publication of notice. Each application on which the mayor and council holds a public hearing shall be granted or denied by the mayor and council within twenty-one (21) days from the day on which such public hearing is concluded.
(Code 1966, § 4-93)
Sec. 4-102. - Public notice.
At their own expense applicants for a license and renewals thereof, and for transfer of location of a liquor store or the license therefor from one (1) place to another within the city, and any other application of whatever kind or nature authorized or required by this article, shall post on the lot to be used for a liquor store and publish one (1) time in each of four (4) consecutive calendar weeks in the official newspaper of the city and in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, a notice of the filing of such applications and of the time and place of a public hearing thereon before the mayor and council, the first of which publications shall not appear more than twenty-eight (28) days prior to such public hearing. The second such publication shall not appear more than fifteen (15) nor less than five (5) days prior to the public hearing. The street number and location of the lot on which a liquor store is to be operated shall be stated in every such notice. No publication of notice shall be printed in letters smaller than ten-point capital and lower case with at least a one-inch, two-column arrangement.
(Code 1966, § 4-94)
State Law reference— Publication of notice of intention to secure retail dealer's license for sale of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-27.
Sec. 4-103. - Scale drawing.
No application for a license shall be approved which does not include, or have attached thereto, a current certificate from a registered surveyor of this state showing a scale drawing of the premises and the location at which applicant desires to operate a liquor store, and the straight line distance in linear feet from the nearest church to the nearest public park, school ground or college campus or public library or private dwelling lot, to such proposed liquor store lot.
(Code 1966, § 4-95)
Sec. 4-104. - License period.
No license shall issue for less than a calendar year period except such as are issued for 1972 which shall expire on December 31, 1972. In case of revocation or surrender of a license issued before the expiration of the period for which it is issued, the holder thereof shall not be entitled to receive any refund whatsoever.
(Code 1966, § 4-96)
Sec. 4-105. - Renewals.
(a)
Duration. Applicants in any given year for renewal of their licenses for the next year shall file their application during the month of November before their licenses for the current year expire on the last day of the next month. All licenses issued for a particular year or portion of such year shall expire on the last day of such year except when extended as provided in this article.
(b)
Written objections. Applications for renewal of licenses shall not require a public hearing unless written objections thereto are filed with the city clerk at least fifteen (15) days before such licenses, or at last renewal thereof, expire, but if such objections are filed a public hearing of such objections will be held by the mayor and council after publication of notice thereof.
(c)
Notice of objections. Applicants for renewal of license shall be notified of any objections to his application for such renewal within forty-eight (48) hours by registered or certified mail addressed to the licensee at the address of the store operated under his license in the city, which notice shall be dated, signed, and mailed by the city clerk and shall include a copy of the objections filed.
(d)
Extension until approval or denial. A city license or renewal thereof shall not be issued until the application therefor is approved or granted by resolution of the mayor and council. But when timely objections to an application for a renewal license are filed the life of the current unexpired license is hereby extended to and through the date on which the mayor and council grants or denies such renewal application, or until the first Tuesday next after the first Monday in the next February, whichever date is first, if the annual license fee for such renewal shall have been deposited with the city clerk for such renewal period within five (5) days after being notified that objections have been filed to his application for renewal of his license.
(Code 1966, §§ 4-97—4-99)
Sec. 4-106. - Grounds for denial of application.
If an application for a license or renewal thereof shows that the applicant or any member of his immediate family or any partner, stockholder, director or officer owns or shall have a financial interest in the license applied for or the business to be conducted thereunder, already has a financial interest in some other liquor store, liquor store license or liquor store business in the county or any other county adjoining the county, or has a financial interest anywhere in a liquor distillery or wholesale distributorship, then such application shall not be approved nor the license granted.
(Code 1966, § 4-100)
State Law reference— Discretion and due process as to the grant and suspension of local alcoholic beverage license, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Sec. 4-107. - Visibility of premises.
No license shall be granted for a liquor store unless the front entrance to the premises is clearly visible from a public street.
(Code 1966, § 4-101)
Sec. 4-108. - Prohibited locations.
No retail liquor license shall be approved or issued for a location, nor shall liquor sales be allowed in, or in connection with any restaurant, cafe or eating place or in the same building where a bar or soda fountain is maintained for the dispensing and sale of beer, wine or soft drinks.
(Code 1966, § 4-102)
Sec. 4-109. - Identification of premises.
Each person licensed to sell liquor at retail shall have printed or plainly painted on the front window of the licensed premises the full legal name of the licensee, together with the inscription of his correct city license number inserted in the blank space therefor: "City Retail License No. 0" in uniform letters not less than four (4) inches in height. Only two (2) signs shall be permitted on the exterior of the building. Such signs shall be parallel with the building and shall not project beyond the building and shall not be illuminated with neon lights or lights in back of signs. The signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet in size.
(Code 1966, § 4-103)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, Ch. 6.
Sec. 4-110. - Posting of prices, article provisions.
Each retail license shall have conspicuously displayed within the interior of the licensed premises not less than four (4) copies of the printed price list of the liquors offered for sale, and one (1) printed copy of this article. However, a licensee, in lieu of having four (4) copies of a printed price list, may have the prices of the liquors offered for sale located and placed on the bottles, or on the bottom of the shelf directly under such bottles, wherein such liquors are exhibited for sale.
(Code 1966, § 4-104)
Sec. 4-111. - Advertising.
No sign advertising any brand or price of liquor shall be permitted on the exterior, or in the window of any licensed premises. No placard or sign visible from the exterior of the licensed premises shall refer to the price of any liquors offered for sale therein. Provided, a tag may be affixed to each bottle or container of whiskey, or to the edge of the shelf holding the bottles or containers, showing the prices of individual bottles or containers.
(Code 1966, § 4-105)
Cross reference— Advertising, Ch. 3.
State Law reference— State regulation of the advertising of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-2-15; advertisement of prices for distilled liquor sales by a retail dealer prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-26.
Sec. 4-112. - Effect of revocation of state permit.
When any state permit or license to sell at retail any spirituous liquors in the city is revoked, the city license shall thereupon stand automatically revoked without any action by the mayor and council or any municipal officer.
(Code 1966, § 4-106)
Sec. 4-113. - Issuance of license.
When an application for a license, or renewal thereof, has been approved by the mayor and council, and the applicant has deposited with the city clerk the annual license fee, the city clerk shall issue such license.
(Code 1966, § 4-107)
Sec. 4-114. - Applications for uncompleted premises.
When the license applied for is for a store to be located in a building not in existence when such license application is filed, or construction of such building has been commenced but is not yet then completed, a license may, if otherwise authorized under this article, be issued for such location if the application for such license and the plans for the proposed building clearly show that such building and the distance requirements will, when completed, meet the requirements of this article and the state law. The annual license fee shall not be discounted or reduced for time consumed in building operations after the license is approved, but no sales shall be made at such location until the building has been completed in accordance with the plans, and conforms with all other provisions of the law and this article.
(Code 1966, § 4-108)
Sec. 4-115. - Transferability.
A license shall not be transferable, except as provided in this section. In case of death of an owner of a license or financial interest therein, such license or interest therein may be transferred to the administrator, executor or lawful adult heir of such deceased person unless the city finds and determines that it would otherwise violate the law or this article. If such legal representative of such deceased licensee does not meet all the requirements of this article when the time arrives to renew the license, it shall not be renewed.
(Code 1966, § 4-109)
Sec. 4-116. - Partnership transfers.
(a)
Retiring members. Nothing in section 4-95 shall prohibit one (1) or more partners in a partnership licensee from retiring therefrom in favor of one (1) or more other partners in such licensee who were such partners of such retiring partner when the application for such partnership license was filed and when such partnership license was issued. Such withdrawal shall not, without compliance with this article by filing a new application for a new license and having it approved as an original application, introduce or result in anyone not already a member of such partnership being or thereby becoming the owner, holder or controller of a financial interest in the license or store, who had none prior thereto.
(b)
New members. A partnership licensee may take in new partners who can and do, with the former partners, qualify for a new annual license. A corporate licensee may acquire new officers, directors and stockholders if they can and do qualify under the financial interest, citizenship, residence, age and other restrictive qualifications requirements of this article, if it is determined by the mayor and council that the sole reason therefor is the necessity of additional capital furnished, or to be furnished, and to be used exclusively for additional inventory or expanding the facilities of the business, or for building new facilities, and where it affirmatively appears that neither such licensee nor any partner or stockholder can receive directly or indirectly any legal or beneficial interest in the additional capital invested. Under this section each new partner and stockholder acquiring a financial interest in the license shall be investigated, and a new license shall be required of a new partnership when new partners are admitted. But a corporation shall not be required to obtain one when it or someone else sells qualified persons stock therein.
(c)
Investigation fee. In all cases covered by this section an investigation is required and the investigation fee, on file in the city clerk's office as set from time to time, shall be charged and collected in advance. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, such investigation fee shall not be refunded.
(Code 1966, §§ 4-110, 4-111)
Sec. 4-117. - Failure to exercise license.
After approval by the mayor and council of an application for a license, or renewal thereof, failure to exercise, within nine (9) months from the date of approval of such application by the mayor and council the privilege conferred by the license, the licensee shall automatically forfeit and cancel the effect of such approval by the mayor and council, and cancel such unused license without refund of any fee paid, unless such failure is due or providential intervention.
(Code 1966, § 4-112)
Sec. 4-118. - Failure to maintain business.
Every licensee who shall begin to exercise the privilege conferred by a license, but who shall thereafter, for a period of nine (9) consecutive months, fail to exercise such privilege, shall automatically forfeit such license at the expiration of such nine (9) months of failure, and such license shall by virtue of the failure be cancelled without further notice or action from the mayor and council, unless such failure is due to providential intervention.
(Code 1966, § 4-113)
Sec. 4-119. - Suspension, revocation; hearing, notice.
(a)
No license which may be issued shall be suspended, revoked or cancelled except for cause as defined in this article, after a public hearing upon at least ten (10) days prior written notice to the licensee of the time, place and purpose of such hearing, with a statement of the reason for suspending, revoking, or cancelling such license.
(b)
Due cause for suspension, revocation or cancellation of a license shall consist of any violation of this article, or any part of it, or any laws or ordinances of this city or state prohibiting or regulating the businesses of selling, transporting or dealing in alcoholic beverages, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such businesses, or for the violation of any state or federal law involving moral turpitude, or violation of city ordinance other than traffic ordinances. It shall also consist of willfully false statements or conduct of applicant for a license or renewal or willful concealment of material matters of fact in obtaining or preventing another from obtaining a license.
(c)
Notice to a licensee that he must show cause why his license should not be revoked shall consist of a certified copy of a resolution of the mayor and council charging the licensee, on information and belief, with the violation of a law or ordinance provision, or violation of a provision of the state revenue commission, which alleged violation, if true, warrants revocation, and notifying such licensee of the time and place of a public hearing. Such certified copy shall be served on the licensee in person or by delivery of it to the licensee by delivering it to licensee's authorized agent in this city or, if neither of the foregoing methods of service can be effected, then by tacking it to the front of the liquor store in the city. Service shall be perfected by a police officer.
(Code 1966, § 4-114)
Sec. 4-120. - Additional regulations.
(a)
Conflict of interest. No person shall own a retail license hereunder, or financial interest therein or in the store or business to be conducted thereunder, who also has any direct financial interest in any liquor distillery or wholesale liquor business anywhere, or in any partnership or corporation which does.
(b)
Change of status. When a change occurs in the relationship of any person or in the status of any property, license, condition, or facts stated or claimed in any application or report required by this article, a sworn statement of such change and all material facts relating thereto shall be filed with the mayor and council, and failure to do so within thirty (30) days after such change shall, unless such time limit is extended for good cause, be cause for cancellation of a license granted pursuant to provisions of this article.
(c)
Involvement of lessor. A licensee shall not pay rent on premises for a retail liquor outlet on the basis of gross or net sales of whiskey sold, or on a profit sharing basis, and shall not share in any other way with the owner or lessor of such premises, directly or indirectly, any gross or net profit from the sale of alcoholic beverages on such premises. No lessor or liquor store premises located in this city shall be in, or have any other connection with the liquor business.
(d)
Wages and debts. No wages or debts may be paid off in whiskey unless the amount due one (1) creditor is in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and then only as authorized by law.
(Code 1966, § 4-115)
Sec. 4-121. - Council to approve location.
No license to engage in the retail sale of spirituous liquors shall be granted or issued unless the location within the city is at the time of such application approved by the mayor and council.
(Code 1966, § 4-116)
Sec. 4-122. - Compliance with article provisions.
No pending or future application for a city liquor license shall be approved by the mayor and council unless, nor until it appears that, all material and valid requirements of this article have been complied with by the applicants and that the applicant is qualified for and entitled under this article to the license for which the application shall have been filed.
(Code 1966, § 4-117)
Sec. 4-123. - License granted upon compliance.
All applicants for city licenses who meet and comply with the requirements of this article shall be granted licenses.
(Code 1966, § 4-118)
Sec. 4-124. - Expiration upon bankruptcy, receivership, etc.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, every license and renewal thereof issued shall expire and be of no further force or effect in case of bankruptcy, receivership, levy of process or failure to promptly account for and pay the excise tax levied on sales of spirituous liquors.
(Code 1966, § 4-119)
Sec. 4-125. - Nonprofit exemptions; restriction.
The residence and financial interest ownership restrictions in licensing corporations, partnerships and similar groups shall not apply to purely nonprofit civic, fraternal, patriotic or social clubs or corporations which are or shall have been organized and conducted in this city solely as mutual social benefit membership groups, if no officer, director, trustee, manager, member or stockholder therein can, in any event, derive any financial gain or profit from the retail sale of liquors by such club or corporation.
(Code 1966, § 4-119)
Sec. 4-126. - Retail building specifications.
All retail liquor stores must meet the following minimum specifications:
(1)
Must meet Southern Standard Building Code, coastal region;
(2)
Eighty (80) percent of the front of the building must be plate glass;
(3)
Building shall be of masonry construction;
(4)
Lighting shall be fluorescent and be at least one hundred (100) footcandles in intensity;
(5)
The building shall be detached and free-standing, except where the premises upon which the retail sale of spirituous liquors or distilled spirits is conducted are located in a hotel, motel, shopping center or multiple-store business or office building where such hotel, motel, shopping center, business or office building is owned by a single person, partnership, joint venture, or corporation, and where said owner or owners consent to the operation of such business on said premises. Furthermore, no other business shall be conducted on the premises whereon the business of the retail sale of spirituous liquors or distilled spirits is conducted.
(Code 1966, § 4-122; Ord. No. 1155, § 1, 12-28-92)
Sec. 4-127. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction in the municipal court, be punished by a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) or by imprisonment and labor on the streets of the city for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days. Each day the violation shall continue shall create a separate offense.
(Code 1966, § 4-123)
Sec. 4-128. - Violation grounds for suspension, revocation.
Any violation of any provision of this article shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of a license by the mayor and council.
(Code 1966, § 4-124)
Sec. 4-129. - Security cameras required.
(a)
Required. Any licensee which sells spirituous liquors for off premises consumption is required to install and maintain a continuous recording security camera system.
(b)
Camera locations. Said required security camera system shall include cameras located at each exit door of the establishment so as to capture images of all ingress and egress therefrom with additional cameras located so as to capture all activity at each point of customer transaction including, but not limited to, cash registers, teller machines, and drive through windows.
(c)
Capability requirements. Said required security camera system shall be capable of producing an identifiable and retrievable image with minimum resolution of six hundred forty (640) by four hundred eighty (480) lines on film, tape, CD, DVD, or other removable memory storage device in a format that can be made a permanent record and enlarged through projection or other means.
(d)
Retention. All recordings and data captured by the security camera system shall be retained by the licensee for a period of not less than thirty (30) days after such recording.
(e)
Maintenance and inspection. Such security camera system shall be maintained in complete and proper working order at all times. Such security camera system shall be subject to periodic inspection by the City of Fitzgerald Police Department. In the event of a crime, it shall be the responsibility of the licensee to produce a recording of the incident within twenty-four (24) hours. Such recording shall become the property of the City of Fitzgerald Police department for use as evidence.
(f)
Affidavit. At the time that an applicant seeks the issuance of a license for sale of spirituous liquors for consumption off premises, or a licensee seeks renewal of such license, said applicant or licensee shall execute an affidavit stating that the business will have, in the case of an applicant, and has, in the case of a renewal, an operating and functioning security camera system that complies with the requirements set forth hereinbefore. Such affidavit form shall be provided by the City of Fitzgerald.
(g)
Violations and penalties. Violation of any provision of this section shall constitute an offense hereunder and be punished as follows:
(1)
Upon conviction of a first violation/offense, the defendant shall be subject to a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and the court may impose a suspension of all alcoholic beverage licenses issued by the City of Fitzgerald for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(2)
Upon a second conviction of a violation of any provision herein within twelve (12) months of an initial conviction hereunder, the defendant shall be subject to a fine of not more than three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) and a mandatory suspension of all alcoholic beverage licenses issued by the City of Fitzgerald for a period of not less than thirty (30) days and not exceeding sixty (60) days.
(Ord. No. 16-1488, § 2, 10-11-16)
Secs. 4-130—4-199. - Reserved.
