APPENDIX A - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
LAND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
OF
MARION COUNTY, GEORGIA
Whereas, the County Commissioners of Marion County and citizens of Marion County desire for the subdivisions that are developed in the County be developed in conformity with plans and specifications that are of benefit to those who purchase lots in the subdivision; and
Whereas, it is not only of benefit to those who purchase lots in the subdivision, but a benefit to the tax base of the county for the subdivisions to be developed in a manner that is convenient, attractive, and safe for citizens and in order to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare,
Therefore, be it resolved by the County Commissioners of Marion County, in session on the October 14, 2003, that the following regulations be and hereby are adopted.
TITLE
An ordinance of Marion County, Georgia, establishing rules and regulations governing the subdivision of land into streets, blocks and lots, requiring street improvements and installation of establishing procedures, providing penalties for violation, repealing ordinances and for other purposes.
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the subdivision regulations of Marion County, Georgia, as adopted by the county board, on October 14, 2003. Amendments to the ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system citation to state statutes in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - PREAMBLE AND ENACTMENT CLAUSE
Pursuant to the authority conferred by the Georgia General Planning Enabling Act of 1957 (1957 Ga. Laws, page 420) and for the purposes, among others, of encouraging the development of an economically sound and stable community; of assuring the provision of required streets, utilities and other facilities and services to new land developments; of assuring the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments; of assuring the provision of development through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational and other public purposes; and of assuring, in general, the wise development of new areas in Marion County.
ARTICLE II. - SHORT TITLE
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "Land Subdivision Regulations of Marion County, Georgia."
ARTICLE III. - DEFINITIONS
The term "street" includes streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, highways, expressways, lanes, alleys and other ways.
[The term] "land subdivision" means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into three or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy or building development; and includes all divisions of land involving a new street, a change in existing streets or the extension of water, sewer or gas lines and includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, related to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included within the definition:
1.
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and resultant lots are equal to the standards of these regulations.
2.
The division of land into parcels of five acres or, more where no new street is involved.
Interpretation of Certain Terms or Words.
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this resolution have their customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of the resolution [ordinance], certain words or terms used herein are defined as follows:
Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and nor merely directory.
The word "may" is permissive.
The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
The word "structure" includes the word "building."
The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual.
The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended," "arranged" or "designed to be used or occupied."
The word "map" shall mean the official map of Marion County, Georgia, and may include a series of maps in sections.
The term "building inspector and/or code administrator" refers to the person subsequently and specifically designated by the county commissioners and so employed as the building inspector and/or code administrator for Marion County, or authorized representative of that office.
The term "board of appeals" refers to the board of appeals of Marion County, Georgia.
The term "county clerk" refers to the county administrator of Marion County Georgia, or authorized representative of that office.
The term "county inspector and/or code administrator" refers to the person subsequently and specifically designated by the county commissioners and so employed as the person to serve as the county inspector or code administrator to ensure all ordinances of the county are complied with, and as such has the authority of the board of commissioners.
The term "commission" or "county commission" refers to the legally constituted and elected governing body of Marion County, Georgia.
3.01 Accessory. A use or building subordinate to the principal building on a lot used for purposes customarily identical to the main or principal use or building located on the same lot therewith.
3.02 Alley. A secondary way which affords vehicular service access to the side or rear of abutting property.
3.03 Alteration of building. Any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, columns or girders); and addition or reduction to a building; any change in use; or relocation of a building from one location or position to another.
3.04 Boarding lodging or roominghouse. A dwelling in which meals or lodging or both are provided.
3.05 Building. A structure which is completely enclosed by a roof and by exterior walls which is moveable or permanently affixed to a lot or used or intended for the shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any kind.
3.06 Building principal. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which said building is situated.
3.07 Building line. That line which represents the distance a building or structure must be set back from a lot boundary or a street right-of-way line according to the terms of this resolution [ordinance]. In all cases the building lines of a lot shall be determined to run parallel to and set back an appropriate distance required within the district in which the lot is located from street right-of-way lines, street centerlines or other lot boundary lines.
3.08 Canopy, freestanding. No limitation to visibility; front side and corner yard offsets to be a minimum of 15 feet.
3.09 Conditional use. A use (sometimes called a "special exception," but not to be confused with a "variance") that would not be appropriate generally or without restriction by which, if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would not be injurious to the public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance or general welfare.
3.10 Clinic. An establishment where medical or dental patients who are not lodged overnight are admitted for examination or treatment.
3.11 Cluster development. A change from the conventional pattern of subdivision development which groups housing units into relatively tight units while providing a unified network of open space. A variety of housing types may be utilized in clusters, including single-family, townhouses, apartments and condominiums.
3.12 District. The term applied to various geographical areas for purposes of interpreting the provisions of this ordinance. The terms "district" and "zoning district" are synonymous and are used interchangeably throughout this resolution [ordinance].
3.13 Dwelling. A building or portion of a building arranged or designed to provide living quarters for one or more families. The terms "dwelling," "dwelling units," and "residence," are synonymous. (See definition of "Family," 3.20).
3.14 Dwelling, one-family. A detached dwelling designed for or occupied exclusively by one family on a single lot.
3.15 Dwelling, two-family. A dwelling arranged or designed to be occupied by two families in separate dwelling units living independently of each other on a single lot.
3.16 Dwelling, group. A building or portion of a building occupied or intended for occupancy by a number of unrelated persons or families, but in which separate cooking facilities are not provided for such resident persons or families. The term "group dwelling" includes but is not limited to the terms rooming house, apartment, hotel, retirement home, nursing home, fraternity or sorority home, YMCA, YWCA and similar organizational or institutional group. A transient hotel, motel or tourist home shall not be deemed to be group dwelling as herein defined.
3.17 Dwelling, multiple-family. A building or series of buildings on the same lot or portions thereof used or designed and rented as dwellings for three or more families living independently of each other, with the number of families in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided. The terms "multiple-family" and "multifamily" are synonymous.
3.18 Dwelling unit. One or more rooms connected together and constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for use on a basis involving owner occupancy or rental, lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, with provisions for cooking, eating and sleeping, and physically set apart from any other dwelling units in the same structure.
3.19 Drive-in. A retail or service enterprise oriented to automobile-driving patrons wherein service is provided to the consumer on the outside and/or inside of the principal building. The term "drive-in" includes drive-in restaurants, dairy bars, theaters, banks and car washes.
3.20 Family. One or more persons with the generic character of a family unit occupying a single dwelling unit and using common cooking facilities, provided that servants and agricultural employees employed on the premises may be housed on the premises.
3.21 Garage, public. Any garage, other than a private garage, which is used for storage, repair, rental, servicing, washing, adjusting or equipping of automobiles or other vehicles.
3.22 Garage, private. An accessory building or portion of a principal building used only for the private storage of motor vehicles as an accessory use.
3.23 Garage, repair. Building and premises designed or used for repairing motor vehicles, trailers, and related transport carriers, provided that body work and painting shall be conducted within fully enclosed buildings and provided further that trailers and self-propelled vehicles in process of repair shall be stored in a fully enclosed and screened area.
3.24 Home occupation. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes.
3.25 Junk or salvage yards. The use of any part of a lot, whether inside or outside of a building, for the storage, keeping, abandonment, sale or resale of junk, salvage or scrap materials, or other dismantling, demolition or abandonment of buildings, automobiles, or other vehicles, machinery, equipment or parts thereof.
3.26 Loading space, off-street. Space logically and conveniently located for pickups and deliveries off public rights-of-way, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used and acceptable to such vehicles at all times.
3.27 Lot. An area designed as a separate and distinct parcel of land or a legally recorded subdivision plot of land in a legally recorded deed as filed in the official county records.
3.28 Lot, corner. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets.
3.29 Lot, double-frontage. A lot which has frontage on more than one street, provided, however, that no corner lot shall qualify as a double-frontage lot unless said corner lot has frontage on three or more streets.
3.30 Lot width. The distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line.
3.31 Manufactured home. "Manufactured home" means a new or used structure, transportable in one or more sections which, in the traveling mode, is 12 body feet or more in width or 48 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 576 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act to 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq. The term "manufactured home" is not synonymous with the term "mobile home," "double-wide," or "home trailer" (see paragraph 3.301), nor does it include "recreational vehicles" (see 3.38); but includes "modular home" and "prefabricated homes". Every manufactured home shall:
(a)
Be suitable for year-round occupancy;
(b)
Be placed on a permanent masonry foundation so as to be substantially fixed to its site;
(c)
Be connected to an approved water supply, approved waste disposal system, and electrical supply similar to site-built housing;
(d)
Be landscaped with trees, shrubs, and other plant material substantially equal to or better than one-family dwellings within 500 feet; and
(e)
Be built within seven years prior to the permit date.
3.311 Mobile home. "Mobile home" means a new or used structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode, is 12 body feet or more in width or 48 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 576 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, an electrical systems contained therein. The term does not include "recreational vehicles" (see 3.38). Every mobile home shall:
(a)
Be suitable for year-round occupancy;
(b)
Be placed on a permanent masonry foundation so as to be substantially fixed to its site;
(c)
Be connected to an approved water supply, approved waste disposal system, and electrical supply similar to site-built housing;
(d)
Be landscaped with trees, shrubs, and other plant material substantially equal to or better than one-family dwellings within 500 feet and;
(e)
Be built within seven years prior to date of permit.
3.32 Mobile home park. A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for the placement of two or more mobile homes for nontransient use. A permit shall be required for the establishment of a mobile home park. The term "park" includes the term "community."
3.33 Motel. A building or buildings in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for compensation, which is open to transient or permanent guests. The word "motel" includes the terms "motor hotel" and "tourist court."
3.34 Nonconforming use. A structure or land lawfully occupied by an existing use which does not conform with the permitted uses for the zoning districts in which it is situated, either at the effective date of this resolution [ordinance] or as the result of subsequent amendments to this resolution [ordinance].
3.35 Parking lot. Any public or private open area used for the express purpose of parking automobiles and other vehicles, with the exception of areas on the premises of single-family dwellings used for parking purposes incidental to the principal use. Parking lots may be the principal use on a given lot or an accessory use.
3.36 Parking space. A space not less than nine by 18 feet plus maneuvering space within a parking lot or on a single-family dwelling lot expressly provided for the purpose of parking an automobile or other vehicle.
3.37 Patio house. A single-family dwelling in which most or all of a lot is used with yard space combined instead of divided. Front, rear, and side yards are consolidated into one garden area, either partially or completely bordered by rooms or enclosed by walls.
3.38 Planned unit development (PUD). A group of three or more buildings constructed on a plot of unsubdivided ground at least two acres in size, which provides for common open spaces and a variety of choice in housing types and land utilization. Land ownership or rental patterns may vary, with rental units, cooperatives, and condominiums being choices open to PUD developers. If common open spaces, including streets, are not dedicated for public use, legal agreements shall be provided for approval by the county commission and shall include provision for adequate future maintenance. The terms "planned unit development" and "PUD" are interchangeable.
3.39 Recreational vehicles. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed to be either pulled by another vehicle or self-propelled, to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes. The term "recreational vehicle" includes the terms "RV," "motor home," "travel trailer," and related wheeled recreational equipment not designed for year-round occupancy.
3.40 Roadside stand. A small-scale business structure permanently or seasonally located within an agricultural or rural area for the sale of agricultural products primarily produced on the premises and using only signs that are removed during seasons when the business is closed.
3.41 Sign. The term "sign" shall mean and include every outdoor advertising device, billboard, poster, panel, freestanding ground sign, roof sign, projecting sign, pylon sign, illuminated sign, sign painted on a wall, window, marquee, awning or canopy, and shall include any announcement, declaration, demonstration, display, ribbon, banner, illustration, or insignia used to advertise or promote the interests of any person when the same is placed in view of the general public traveling along a public street or road right-of-way.
3.42 Signs, number and surface area. For the purpose of determining the number of signs, a sign shall be considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements organized, related, and composed to form a unit. Where matter is displayed in a random manner without organized relationship of elements, or where there is reasonable doubt about the relationship of elements, each element shall be considered to be a single sign. The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area within a regular geometric form or combinations of regular geometric forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not bearing advertising matter shall not be included in the computation of surface area.
3.43 Sign, on-site. An outdoor advertising device relating in its subject matter to the premises on which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on the premises. The terms "point-of-sale" sign and "on-premises" signs are synonymous with "on-site" sign.
3.44 Sign, off-site. An outdoor advertising device other than an on-site including those erected by the outdoor advertising industry.
3.45 Street. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
3.46 Structure. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a fixed location on the ground or which is attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
3.47 Tourist home. A dwelling in which sleeping accommodations in less than ten rooms are provided or offered for the use of guests in return for compensation. Any dwelling in which such accommodations are offered in ten or more rooms shall be deemed to be a hotel as herein defined. The use of a dwelling as a tourist home shall not be considered as an accessory use nor a customary home occupation.
3.48 Tract. See "Lot," 3.27.
3.49 Use. accessory. See "Accessory," 3.01.
3.50 Use conditional. See "Conditional use," 3.09.
3.51 Variance. A modification of the strict terms of this resolution [ordinance] granted by the board of appeals where such modification will not be contrary to the public good, such as irregular lot size, topographic or other characteristics of the land, and not as the result of any action on the part of the property owner, a literal enforcement of this resolution [ordinance] would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
3.53 Yard. A required space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments of accessory buildings and other structures are expressly permitted.
3.54 Yard, front. A yard situated between the front building line and the front lot line and extending the full width of the lot.
3.55 Yard rear. A yard situated between the rear building line and the rear lot line and extending the full width of the lot.
3.56 Yard side. A yard situated between a side building line and the front yard to the rear yard.
ARTICLE IV. - PLATTING JURISDICTION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 401. - Platting authority.
From and after the passage of this ordinance, the Marion County Planning Commission shall be the platting authority.
Sec. 402. - Preliminary plat approval required prior to initiation of construction.
No construction work shall be undertaken on a proposed land subdivision until a preliminary plat has been approved by the planning commission and the board of commissioners.
Sec. 403. - Land subdivision plat recording.
No plat of a land subdivision shall be accepted for recording in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Marion County except a final plat on which is inscribed the approval of the county commission.
Sec. 404. - Use of plat.
The transfer of, sale, agreement to sell, or negotiate to sell land by reference to or exhibition of, or other use of a subdivision that has not been given final approval by the Marion County Planning Commission and recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court of Marion County is prohibited, and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties.
Sec. 405. - Erection of buildings.
No building shall be erected on any lot unless the street giving access thereto has been accepted as a public street or unless such street has attained the legal status of a public street prior to the effective date of this ordinance or has been accepted as a public street by the county commission.
Sec. 406. - Acceptance of and improvements in unproved streets.
The county commission of Marion County or other public authority shall not accept as a public street or shall not itself undertake or authorize the layout, opening, improving, grading, paving, lighting or the installation of water mains, sewers, connections or other facilities or utilities in any street unless such street is shown on a final plat approved by the county planning commission or it has attained the legal status of a public street prior to the effective date of this ordinance provided, however, that the county commission may locate, construct or accept any other street if the ordinance for such a street is first submitted to the county planning commission for its review and approval.
ARTICLE V. - PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURES
Before proceeding with a proposed land subdivision, developers are invited and encouraged to discuss their proposed development with the county planning commission. A very preliminary sketch of the proposed subdivision together with a map of the area showing its principal features will be helpful in the discussion.
ARTICLE VI. - PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT

Sec. 601. - Application for preliminary plat approval.
The subdivider shall submit to the office of the code administrator, at least 20 days prior to the next regular meeting of the Marion County Planning Commission, the following:
1.
A letter requesting review and approval of a preliminary plat, giving the name and the address of the person to whom the notice of the hearing by the Marion County Planning Commission on the preliminary plat shall be sent.
2.
Five copies of the preliminary plat and other documents, as specified in article VII.
3.
A preliminary plat filing fee of $25.00, plus the current cost of publishing the public notice.
Sec. 602. - Review preliminary plat.
The planning commission shall check the plat for conformance to the regulations of this ordinance and if the preliminary plat is found to be in compliance, the planning commission will schedule the consideration of the preliminary plat on the agenda at the next commissioners' meeting. However, if the preliminary plat is found to be deficient, the consideration of the preliminary plat will not be placed on the agenda for the next commissioner's meeting, and the planning commission will notify the developer in writing of the deficiencies. The developer will have an opportunity to correct the deficiencies and resubmit the plat to the planning commission. If the plat has been resubmitted to the planning commission at least five days prior to the next meeting of the commissioners, the consideration of the preliminary plat will be placed on the agenda for its consideration by the commissioners. If the plat is resubmitted less than five days prior to the next meeting of the commissioners, the consideration of the plat will be placed on the agenda at the next following meeting.
The county commission shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat. A notification of action shall be made on two copies of the preliminary plat, including a statement of the reasons for disapproval if the preliminary plat is disapproved, one copy shall be returned to the subdivider or his agent and one copy added to the records of the county planning commission.
Approval of a preliminary plat does not constitute approval of a final plat. It indicates only approval of the layout as a guide to preparation of the final plat. Preliminary plat approval shall expire and be null and void after a period of one year unless an extension of time is approved by the county planning commission.
ARTICLE VII. - PRELIMINARY PLAT SPECIFICATIONS
Preliminary plats for subdivisions shall be prepared as follows:

Sec. 701. - Scale.
The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale not smaller than 100 feet to one inch.
Sec. 702. - Sheet size.
Original sheet size shall be 11 inches by 17 inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet of this size, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index map on a separate sheet of the same size.
Sec. 703. - Information to be provided in preliminary plat.
The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
1.
Name and address of owner(s) of record and of subdivider(s);
2.
Proposed name of subdivision and its gross acreage;
3.
North arrow, graphic scale and date;
4.
Vicinity map showing location of the subdivision and developments in its vicinity;
5.
Exact boundary lines of the tract by bearings and distances from a referenced P.O.B.;
6.
Names of owners of record of adjoining land;
7.
Existing streets, utilities and easements on the land adjacent to the tract;
8.
Contour lines at intervals of not more than two feet;
9.
Proposed layout including streets, and alleys, if the subdivision contains alleys, with proposed street names, lot lines with approximate dimensions; easements, land to be reserved or dedicated for public uses, and land to be used for purposes other than single-family dwellings;
10.
Lots shall be consecutively numbered so that no two lots have the same lot number;
11.
Provisions for water supply, sewerage and drainage;
12.
Minimum building front yard setback lines;
13.
Such street cross sections and centerline profiles as may be required by the planning department;
14.
Present and proposed wells, water courses, floodplains and wetland areas, water systems, sewage systems, structures and easements on the property and within 100 feet of the perimeter of the property; and
15.
Present public water systems and public sewage systems, within 1,000 feet of the perimeter of the property.
Sec. 704. - Certificate of approval.
A certificate of approval of the preliminary plat by the county commission shall be inscribed on the plat as follows: "Pursuant to the Land Subdivision Regulations of Marion County, Georgia, all the requirements of approval having been fulfilled, this _______________________, 20___. This approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute approval of a final plat. This certificate of approval of the preliminary plat shall expire and be null and void until amended, modified or revoked by proper resolution."
EXPAND
_____
(date) _____
Chairperson
Marion County Commission
  Sec. 705. - Initiation of improvements.
After a preliminary plat has been approved, no improvements in the land subdivision shall be undertaken until final engineering plans and specifications have been approved by the county.
ARTICLE VIII. - FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE

Sec. 801. - Application for final plat approval.
After the preliminary plat of a proposed land subdivision has been approved by the county commission, the subdivider may, within one year from approval, submit to the county planning commission:
1.
A letter requesting review and approval of a final plat, giving the name and address of the person(s) to whom the notice of the hearing by the county planning commission on the final plat shall be sent.
2.
Five copies of the final plat and other documents, as specified in article IX, the original of which shall be drawn in permanent ink on reproducible sepia paper or reproducible format, and in conformity with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67. The copies submitted to the county planning commission and for recording in the clerk's office can be a blue-lined copy.
3.
The subdivider shall be responsible for paying the recording fees as specified by the clerk of the superior court of Marion County.
Sec. 802. - Review of final plat.
The county planning commission shall check the final plat for the following requirements:
1.
The county planning commission shall check the plat for conformance to the regulations of the ordinance, and if the final plat is found to be in compliance, the county planning commission will schedule the consideration of the final plat on the agenda at the next county commissioner's meeting. However, if the final plat is found to be deficient, the consideration of the final plat will not be placed on the agenda for the next commissioner's meeting, and the county planning commission will notify the developer in writing of the deficiencies and give the developer an opportunity to correct the deficiencies. The consideration of the final plat shall be placed on the commissioners' agenda at the second meeting that occurs after the final plat has been submitted.
2.
If the preliminary plat is waived by the county commission according to the procedures and requirements outlined in section 705, the county commission shall examine and approve the final plat using the plat specifications outlined in article VII.
3.
The county commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat. A notation of the action shall be made on the original tracing and two prints of the final plat, including a statement of the reasons therefore if the final plat is disapproved.
Sec. 803. - Approval of final plat.
1.
Upon approval of the final plat, the code administrator will notify the subdivider, who may, within one year, proceed to build the roads, lay the utility lines, stormwater and sanitary sewer lines.
2.
The code administrator, after receipt of the funds from the developer to pay the clerk's recording fee of the final plat, shall record the final plat in the office of the clerk of the Marion Superior Court. Subsequent to the recording of the final plat, with all certificates endorsed thereon, a copy shall be filed with the records of the code administrator and the recording information of the plat shall be indicated on the copy.
ARTICLE IX. - FINAL PLAT SPECIFICATIONS

Sec. 901. - Final plat requirements.
The final plat shall conform to and meet the specification of the preliminary plat and the following additional specifications:
1.
The original final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn in permanent ink on reproducible copy paper or other reproducible media at a scale not smaller than 100 feet to one inch. Blue-lined copies of the original plat will be accepted. Original sheet sizes shall be 24 inches by 36 inches, and where more than one sheet is required, an index map shall be provided on the same size sheet. The final plat shall show:
a.
Bearings and distance of the subdivision boundaries to the nearest existing street lines or other permanent monuments (not less than three) accurately described on the plat.
b.
Municipal, county and land-lot lines accurately tied to the boundary lines of the subdivision by distance and angles when such lines traverse or are reasonably close to the subdivision.
c.
Exact boundary lines of the tract, determined by a field survey, giving distances to the nearest one-tenth foot and angles to the nearest minute, which shall be balanced and closed with an error of closure not to exceed one to 5,000.
d.
Name of subdivision, exact location, widths, and names of all streets and alleys within and immediately adjoining the plat.
e.
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii and lengths of tangents.
f.
Lot lines with dimensions to the nearest one-tenth foot.
g.
Lots numbered in numerical order.
h.
Location, dimensions and purposes of any easements and any areas to be reserved or dedicated for public use.
i.
Accurate location, material and description of monuments and markers.
j.
A statement, either directly on the plat or in an identified attached document, of any private covenants.
k.
The actual location of all utility lines.
l.
Profiles and invert elevations of all stormwater and sanitary sewer lines.
m.
The following certifications:
(1)
An engineer's or surveyor's certification, directly on the final plat as follows:
"It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by me or under my supervision; that all monuments shown thereon actually exist and their location, size, type and material are correctly shown; and that all engineering requirements of the Land Subdivision Regulations of Marion County, Georgia have been fully complied with.
EXPAND
By: _______ Registered C. E. No. _______
or
By: _______ Registered Georgia Land Surveyor No. _______
  (2)
An owner's certification, directly on the final plat as follows:
Owner's Certificate
State of Georgia, County of Marion.
"The owner(s) of the land shown on this plat and whose name(s) are subscribed hereto, in person or through a duly authorized agent, certifies that this plat was made from an actual survey, that all state and county taxes or other assessments now due on this land have been paid."
EXPAND
Agent _____ Owner _____
Date _____ Date _____
  (3)
Certificate of dedication. A certificate by owner(s) setting forth the description of the areas and improvements dedicated to the public and the extent of the title which the dedication should be attached to the final plat. Because of the legal consideration here, this certificate shall be approved as to the form by the county attorney.
(4)
A certificate of approval of the final plat by the county commission, directly on the plat, as follows:
"Pursuant to the Land Subdivision Regulations of Marion County, Georgia, all the requirements of approval having been fulfilled, this final plat was approved by the Marion County Commission on ______________________, 20___."
EXPAND
_____
(date) _____
Chairperson
Marion County Commission
  ARTICLE X. - AS-BUILT PLAT PROCEDURE

Sec. 1001. - As-built plat requirements.
The as-built plat shall conform to and meet the specifications of the final plat specifications and the requirements of section 804 [sic].
Sec. 1002. - Filing and recording of as built plat.
1.
After the subdivision, or a phase of the subdivision, if the subdivision is developed in phases, has been developed, the subdivider shall present to the county inspector the as-built plat, which shall include the following:
(a)
Three copies, 18 inches by 24 inches, of the subdivision, or that portion that has been completed.
(b)
The actual location of all utility lines.
(c)
Profiles and invert elevations of all stormwater and sanitary sewer lines, as built.
(d)
Centerline profiles of all streets, as-built.
(e)
One complete set of construction plans and drawings.
2.
Upon receipt of the as-built plat as defined above, the code administrator shall inspect the plat for compliance with the above requirements. If the above requirements have been satisfied, the code administrator shall place the consideration of the as-built plat on the agenda at the next board of commissioners' meeting. If the as-built plat is deficient, the code administrator shall not place the consideration of the as-built plat on the next agenda, but shall notify the developer in writing of the deficiencies. The developer will have an opportunity to correct the as-built plat and re-submit the as built plat to the code administrator at least five days prior to the next meeting of the commissioners, the consideration of the as-built plat will be placed on the agenda for its consideration by the commissioners. If the as-built plat is submitted less than five days prior to the next meeting of the commissioners, the consideration of the as-built plat will be placed on the agenda at the next following meeting.
3.
The streets of the subdivision shall no be accepted by the board of commissioners until the as-built plat has been accepted and approved by the commissioners. Upon acceptance and approval of the as-built plat, the following certification shall be affixed to the final as-built plat:
"Pursuant to the Land Subdivision Regulations of Marion County, Georgia, all requirements of the as-built plat having been fulfilled, this as-built plat was approved by the Marion County Commissioners on the ___ day of _______, 20___.
EXPAND
_____
(date) By: _____
Chairperson
Marion County Board of Commissioners
  ARTICLE XI. - GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 1101. - Suitability of land.
Land subject to flooding, improper drainage or erosion or land that is for topographical or other reasons unsuitable for residential use shall not be platted for residential use nor for any other use that will continue to increase the danger to health, safety or property destruction, unless the hazards can be and are corrected. The board of commissioners shall seek advise from public works and the county engineer and public health officials and others as deemed appropriate by the board of commissioner on the suitability of land for residential use.
Sec. 1102. - Name of subdivision.
The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of any existing subdivision. The name of the subdivision shall be posted on a permanent, weatherproof sign, minimum size four feet by four feet and maximum size four feet by eight feet, located at the main entrance or entrances of the subdivision, and not obscured by any shrubs, trees, hedges or structures.
Sec. 1103. - Access.
Access to every subdivision shall be provided over a public street and the streets within the subdivision shall be public streets.
Sec. 1104. - [Entrance or access by use of dam prohibited.]
The subdivision will not be accepted or approved if the only entrance or access is over a dam. Primary access must be provided over a public street that does not traverse a dam.
Sec. 1105. - Conformance to adopted comprehensive plan. (Reserved)
Sec. 1106. - [Dedication or reservation of certain land.]
When features of other plans adopted by the county commission (such as schools or other public building sites, parks, or other land for public uses) are located in whole or in part in a land subdivision, such features shall be either dedicated or reserved by the subdivider for acquisition within a reasonable time by the appropriate public agency.
Sec. 1107. - [Land not suitable for public use.]
Whenever a plat proposed the dedication of land to public use that the county commission finds not required or suitable for such public use, the county commission shall refuse to approve the plat, and shall notify the land developer and the governing body of the reasons for such action.
Sec. 1108. - Large-scale developments.
The requirements of this resolution [ordinance] may be modified in the case of a large-scale community or planned-unit developments such as a housing project or shopping center which may or may not be subdivided into customary lots, blocks and streets, if the development meets the requirements of the ordinances of Marion County, Georgia, is approved by the county commission and if it is in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance.
Sec. 1109. - Lots on existing dirt road.
When a developer subdivides lots on an existing public dirt road (existing public dirt road shall mean a roadway which the public has an easement to travel and the county maintains), and the existing right-of-way for the dirt road is less than the minimum right-of-way for county paved roads, the developer shall reserve sufficient right-of-way, as measured from the enter line of the future paved road, as set by the county engineer, for the future widening and improvement of the road. The developer shall convey a vested future interest in the reserved right-of-way to the county and the title to the right-of-way shall vest in the county at such time as the county decides to pave the road. Written notice of such intention to the then land owner or land owners over whose land the reservation is situate, shall vest the title to the right-of-way in the county at no cost to the county.
ARTICLE XII. - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR STREETS AND OTHER RIGHTS-OF-WAY

Sec. 1201. - Continuation of existing streets.
Existing streets shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width.
Sec. 1202. - Street names.
Streets that are obviously in alignment with streets existing and named shall be given the name of the existing street. Names of new streets shall not duplicate nor closely approximate those of existing streets.
Sec. 1203. - Street jogs.
Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall not be permitted.
Sec. 1204. - Culs-de-sac.
Except where topographic or other conditions make a greater length unavoidable, culs-de-sac, or dead end streets, shall be not greater in length than 800 feet. They shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a property line radius of at least 60 feet with an outside pavement radius of at least 50 feet.
Sec. 1205. - Development along major thoroughfare.
Limited-access highway or railroad right-of-way. Where a subdivision abuts or contains a major thoroughfare, a limited-access highway or a railroad right-of-way, the county commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way either as marginal access street or, at a distance suitable for an appropriate use of the intervening land, with a non-access reservation suitably planted, due regard should be given requirements for approach grades and future grade separations in determining distances. Lots shall not have direct access to a major thoroughfare (or limited-access highway), but only to access streets.
Sec. 1206. - Alleys.
Alleys may be constructed at the rear of all lots, whether they are used for one-family, multifamily, commercial or industrial purposes. If the subdivision contains alleys, such alleys [shall] provide access to the lot and a location for certain utilities, and facilitate garbage collection.
Sec. 1207. - Easements.
Easements having a minimum width of ten feet and located along the side or rear lot lines shall be provided, as required, for utilities.
Sec. 1208. - Watercourse, drainway, channel or stream traverse.
Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater or drainage right-of-way of adequate width. Parallel streets may be required by the county commission in connection therewith.
ARTICLE XIII. - STREET DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 1301. - Street specification.
All streets, public and private, shall be built, constructed and paved in conformity with the county standard specifications for roads and street[s].
Sec. 1302. - Street right-of-way widths.
Street right-of-way widths shall be the distance across a street from property line to property line. Minimum street right-of-way shall be as follows:
1.
Major thoroughfare widths shall be 80 to 100 feet, depending on the existence and size of a median strip, determination of which shall be made by the county commission.
2.
Collector streets, 80 feet.
3.
Local streets, dead-end streets, and culs-de-sac, 100 feet.
4.
Interior streets, 80 feet.
5.
Alleys, 20 feet.
6.
Notwithstanding the street widths required in paragraphs 3 and 4 above, local streets and interior streets in and extension of a subdivision where the roads have been paved, existing on October 14, 2003, may be 50 feet in width. This exception does not apply to subdivisions begun after October 14, 2003.
Sec. 1303. - Street grades. (Reserved)
Sec. 1304. - Street intersections.
Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible. No street intersections shall intersect at an angle of less than 60 degrees, unless required by unusual circumstances, and approved by the county.
Sec. 1305. - Curbline radius.
The curbline radius at street intersections shall be at least 25 feet. Where the angle of street intersection is less than 90 degrees, a longer radius may be required.
Sec. 1306. - Street paving width.
Street paving widths shall be no less than the following, measured from edge of pavement.
1.
Major thoroughfares with median (100-foot right-of-way) two at 28 feet each.
2.
Major thoroughfares (80-foot right-of-way) 52 feet.
3.
Local Streets (80-foot right-of-way) roadbed 34 feet, pavement 22 feet.
[4.]
[Reserved.]
5.
Notwithstanding the street paving widths required in paragraphs 3 and 4 above, local streets and interior streets in an extension of a subdivision where the roads have been paved, existing on October 14, 2003, may be 20 feet in width. This exception does not apply to subdivisions begun after October 14, 2003.
Sec. 1307. - Street improvement specifications.
All major thoroughfares, connector, interior and local streets within a subdivision shall be improved in accordance with county standards.
ARTICLE XIV. - DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BLOCKS AND LOTS

Sec. 1401. - Block lengths and widths.
Block lengths and widths shall be as follows:
1.
Blocks shall be not greater than 1,800 feet nor less than 600 feet in length, except in unusual circumstances.
2.
Blocks shall be wide enough to provide two tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where abutting upon major thoroughfares, limited-access highways, or railroads or where other situations make this requirement impracticable.
Sec. 1402. - Lot sizes.
Residential lots shall conform to the minimum dimension and area requirements:
1.
The minimum lot size shall be one acre when the will [sic] land septic tank are located on the lot.
2.
The minimum lot size shall be one-half acre when the lot is served by [a] public water system and a public sewage system.
3.
There shall be no more than four lots located on a cul-de-sac.
Sec. 1403. - Minimum building lines.
The minimum building setback line shall be as follows:
1.
Front setback line 40 feet.
2.
Side setback line 15 feet.
3.
Rear setback line 25 feet.
Sec. 1404. - Double and reverse frontage lots.
Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten feet, across which there shall be no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a traffic artery or other incompatible use.
ARTICLE XV. - DAM SPECIFICATIONS

Sec. 1501. - [Specifications and regulations.]
If the subdivision contains a pond or a lake, the following specifications and regulations shall apply:
1.
All dams shall be built and constructed in conformity with the Georgia Department of Soil Conservation specifications and shall be certified by a registered engineer.
2.
All drawings of the dam specifications and construction shall be stamped and sealed by a certified registered engineer, and submitted to the county inspector before construction begins.
3.
All subdivisions that have a pond or lake shall form a homeowners association prior to the selling of the first lot, and shall present to the board of commissioners at the time of approval of the final plat, a certificate of the secretary of state certifying the existence of the homeowners association.
4.
The articles of the homeowners association shall provide that the lot owners shall have a pro rata ownership interest in the improvements of the subdivision owned by the homeowner's association, if any. It is recommended that upon 80 percent of the lots in the subdivision being sold, the developer convey title to the dam, lake and pond in the subdivision to the homeowner's association.
5.
The county does not and will not accept title or responsibility for any dam or lake and will not accept title or responsibility for any street that traverses a dam, and the county does not and will not accept any responsibility for the maintenance of the dam or any street that traverses the dam.
ARTICLE XVI. - REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 1601. - [Installation of improvements.]
Prior to the approval of the final plat an agreement shall have been reached between the subdivider or his agent and the county government with regard to the installation of street improvements and utilities called for on the subdivision plat.
The subdivider shall be required to have installed by the appropriate county agency at his expense or, with approval of the agency concerned, to himself install the following street improvements and utilities:
1.
All street rights-of-way shall have ditches and tall ditches as required by the soil conservation requirements and by the county standard specifications for roads and streets.
2.
When sanitary sewage facilities are available, sanitary sewer lines and manholes installed.
3.
When public water supply is available, water mains within the subdivision with fire hydrants and with connections to each lot. Minimum diameter of water pipes shall normally be six inches.
All required street improvements, utilities and monuments shall be built to standards specified by the agency responsible for each. All utilities to be installed in the streets shall be placed and the soil shall be compacted prior to paving.
ARTICLE XVII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1700. - [Right-of-way easements.]
Right-of-way easements for streets and roads shall not be considered a part of a lot or open space, or front, rear or side yard for the purpose of meeting yard requirements.
Sec. 1701. - Lot reduction prohibited.
No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this resolution [ordinance] shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Roads or lots created after the effective date of this resolution [ordinance] shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this resolution [ordinance].
Sec. 1702. - Use of substandard lots of record.
Where the owner of a lot at the time of the adoption of this resolution [ordinance] does not own sufficient land to enable him to conform to the dimensional requirements of this resolution [ordinance], such lot may nonetheless be used as a building site, provided that said lot requirements are not reduced below the minimum specified in this resolution [ordinance] by more than 20 percent. If, however, the owner of two or more adjoining lots with insufficient land dimensions decides to build on or sell off these lots, he must first combine said lots to comply with the dimensional requirements of the resolution [ordinance]. Any lot requiring dimensional waivers below the 20 percent minimum set forth in this section may be approved by the county commissioners, provided that further decreased dimensional requirements shall conform as closely as possible to the required dimensions.
Sec. 1703. - Public street frontage.
No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut at least 100 feet on a public street, except when the public street is a cul-de-sac, and shall have a minimum frontage of 50 feet on the cul-de-sac.
Sec. 1704. - One principal building on a lot.
Only one principal building and its customary accessory buildings may hereafter be erected on any one lot.
Sec. 1705. - Planted buffer strips.
Where commercial or industrial districts abut residential or manufactured home park development, a ten-foot wide buffer strip shall be provided along the abutting property lines, and the ten feet shall be added to the side of rear yard requirements as well as the lot width unless specified otherwise in this resolution [ordinance]. Such buffer strip shall be planted with evergreen trees or shrubs that grow at least eight feet tall and provide an effective visual screen.
Sec. 1706. - Vision clearance.
In all subdivisions no fence, wall, shrubbery or other obstruction to vision between the heights of 2½ feet and ten feet above the finished grade of streets shall be erected, permitted, or maintained within 20 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of streets and railroads.
Sec. 1707. - Access to public streets or private streets.
Assess to public streets, or private streets, shall be maintained in accordance with the following requirements:
1.
No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut at least 100 feet on a public street, or private street, except when the public street, or private street is a cul-de-sac, and shall have a minimum frontage of 50 feet on the cul-de-sac.
2.
Any additional dwelling shall have access to a public street, or private street, by means of a passageway open to the sky at least 15 feet in width.
3.
Local streets which will carry less than 600 vehicles per day may have access points as needed to fit the development.
4.
For all developments fronting on a state highway, no final plat shall be approved until the approval of the Georgia Department of Transportation (DOT) has been obtained regarding access points, curb radii, drainage and related engineering design of concern to the DOT, and proof of their final approval has been submitted.
Sec. 1708. - Corner lots.
On lots having frontage on more than one street at an intersection, the minimum front yard requirements may be reduced to one-half the regulated distance on the portion of the lot fronting on the street or streets of lesser importance. However, in no case shall the setback be reduced to less than 15 feet. The minimum front yard for the portion of the lot fronting on the street of greater importance shall be provided in accordance with the provisions established by this resolution [ordinance] for the district in which the lot is located.
Sec. 1709. - Double-frontage lots.
On lots having frontage on two streets, but not located on a corner, the minimum front yard shall be provided on each street in accordance with the provisions of this resolution [ordinance]. On lots having frontage on more than two streets, the minimum front yard shall be provided in accordance with the regulations set forth in this resolution [ordinance] on at least two of the street frontages. The minimum front yard on the other frontage or frontages may be reduced along the other streets.
Sec. 1710. - Front yard requirements.
The setback requirements of this resolution [ordinance] shall not apply to any lot where the average setback on already built upon lots located wholly or in part within 100 feet on each side of such lot and within the block and zoning district and required setbacks but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the developed lots. However, in no case shall setbacks be less than 15 feet.
Sec. 1711. - Code requirements and state regulations.
All structures shall meet the requirements of The Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, including:
Standard Building Code (SBCC) including:
Appendix C, D, G, J & L
Standard Mechanical Code (SBCCI) including:
Appendix B
Standard Gas Code (SBCCI)
National Electric Code
Standard Plumbing Code (SBCCI) including:
Appendix B, C, H & J
Standard Fire Prevention Code (SBCCI) including: chapter 1, appendix B, C & D
CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code including: Appendix F
Georgia State Energy Code for Buildings including: Chapter 1
Standard Housing Code
Georgia Department of Transportation Regulations
Georgia State Fire Marshal Regulations
Georgia State Health Department Regulations
Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975 as amended
ARTICLE XVIII. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 1801. - Conflict with other laws.
Whenever the regulations of this ordinances impose more restrictive standards than are required under any other statute, the requirement of this ordinance shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards than are required by this ordinance, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
Sec. 1802. - Separability.
Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 1803. - Repeal of conflicting resolutions.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
Sec. 1804. - Violation and penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense. All summons for violation and trials shall be in the Magistrate Court of Marion County, Georgia. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
The county or any owner of real estate who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction[,] mandamus or other appropriate action in proceeding to stop the violation.
(Res. of 4-12-2005)
Sec. 1805. - Effective date.
This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the date of its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
ARTICLE XIX. - AMENDMENTS
This ordinance may be amended from time to time by the county government but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall first been submitted to the county planning commission for review and recommendation.
Before the county commission enacts this ordinance or and [sic] amendment to it the commission shall hold a public hearing thereon, at least 15 days notice of the time and date of which shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
