ARTICLE IX. - MHP MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT

Sec. 9.01. - Statement of purpose.
The MHP district is for areas suitable for concentrations of manufactured homes. In promoting the general purpose of this chapter [appendix], the specific intent of this district is:
A.
Require adequate space and facilities for healthful living conditions for occupants of such manufactured home parks.
B.
Require all such districts to have access to a major arterial county road for easy accessibility.
C.
Ensure suitable water and sanitary sewer facilities are provided [per] regulations and statutes of the state and county.
D.
Encourage the development of manufactured home parks for long[-term] rather than transient travel trailer use.
Sec. 9.02. - Permitted uses.
The following uses are permitted in the MHP district:
A.
Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any permitted use, when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation, provided that all accessory buildings shall conform and be located as required in section 4.10C of this chapter [appendix].
B.
Garden.
C.
Home occupation.
D.
Manufactured home park.
E.
The following commercial establishments may be permitted as customary accessory uses provided such uses do not occupy a total of more than ten percent of the area of the park; are located a minimum distance of 100 feet from any adjoining property line, street, or highway right-of-way; and are intended for the convenience of, and service to, occupants of the park.
1.
Coin-operated vending machines provided such are located within a building and are not visible from the street or adjoining property lines.
2.
Laundry and dry cleaning establishments or pick up stations for dry cleaning and laundry concerns; beauty shops; barber shops; and similar personal service businesses.
3.
Retail store intended for the convenience of, and service to, occupants of the park.
4.
The planning commission may allow other uses when, in its judgment, the proposed use will not conflict with the intent of this chapter [appendix] or other county ordinances and is appropriate to a residential development.
Sec. 9.03. - Conditional uses.
The following are conditional uses in the MHP district:
A.
Nursery school, kindergarten or day care facility provided all state licensing requirements are met.
B.
Temporary emergency construction and repair residence.
C.
Recreational vehicle park.
Sec. 9.04. - Development standards.
Manufactured home park standards are specified [in] mobile home park ordinance number 96-11-06(B) of Marion County [Code chapter 38, article II].
