ARTICLE X. - RVP RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK
Regulations in the RVP district are established for trailer parks where the principal use is for overnight tourists, or for vacationers whose stay will not exceed 180 days.

Sec. 10.01. - Area requirements, minimum.
A.
The park shall be on a lot of not less than five acres, with a width at the building line of not less than 300 feet.
B.
The density of spaces shall not exceed nine per acre without a community water system approved by the county health department.
Sec. 10.02. - Yard requirements.
A.
Recreational vehicles shall be separated from each other by not less than 15 feet.
B.
No recreational vehicle shall be located closer to any exterior property line than the corresponding yard requirement in the surrounding or adjoining district in which it is located.
Sec. 10.03. - Minimum requirements.
A.
Each space within a recreational vehicle park shall be provided with an all-weather surface of sufficient area to provide parking for both trailer and towing vehicle. All other exposed ground surfaces shall be covered or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and eliminating dust.
B.
Water supply connections shall be made to a public water system wherever possible and feasible as determined by the county health department. Where a public system is not available a private system approved by the county health department may be used.
C.
The water supply shall be capable of supplying 50 gallons per space per day for all spaces lacking individual water connections and 100 gallons per day for all spaces provided with individual water connections.
D.
Each recreational vehicle park shall be provided with at least one water supply station per 100 trailer sites, or fraction thereof. Such water supply outlet shall include at least one sanitary hydrant and necessary appurtenances, and shall be protected against back flow and back siphonage.
E.
Connection shall be made to a public sanitary sewerage system whenever possible and feasible, as determined by the county health department. Where a public system is not available, a private system approved by the county health department, and where applicable, the Georgia Water Quality Control Board may be used. No septic tanks are permitted.
1.
Each recreational vehicle park shall be provided with a sanitary station in the ratio of at least one station for each 100 trailer spaces or fraction thereof, and each station shall be separated from any recreational vehicle space by a distance of at least 50 feet.
2.
A sanitary station shall consist of at least a trapped four-inch sewer riser pipe connected to the park's sewerage system, surrounded at the inlet end by a concrete apron sloped to the drain, and provided with a suitable hinged cover, and water outlet, with the necessary appurtenances to permit periodic wash down of the immediate area.
3.
No wastewater or other liquid effluent shall be discharged or allowed to accumulate on the ground surface.
F.
Grounded and weatherproof electrical outlets supplying at least 110 volts shall be provided at each recreational vehicle space. All electrical facilities shall comply with the regulations of the National Electrical Code.
G.
At least one solid waste container approved by the county health department shall be provided for each recreational vehicle space.
H.
Where dependent trailers are to be located, central toilet facilities shall be provided. Central toilets shall be plainly marked, separated by sex, lighted at night, and located within 200 feet of the trailer spaces served. For each ten spaces or every fraction thereof, not less than one commode, one lavatory, and one tub or shower heads. [The person to] whom approval is given to operate a travel trailer park shall at all times operate the park in compliance with this resolution, and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the park area, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
I.
All-weather drives at least 20 feet wide shall be provided to each trailer space within the park.
J.
A permanent, protective screen as described in section 4.12 shall be required.
Sec. 10.04. - General requirements.
A.
Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insects and rodents. Extermination methods and other measures to control insects and rodents shall conform with requirements of the county health department.
B.
The park area shall be so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy and other noxious plants considered to be detrimental to health.
C.
No open fire shall be permitted, except in facilities designed for such purposes. No open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used, nor material burned, which causes odors or dense smoke.
D.
The person to whom approval is given to operate a travel trailer park shall at all times operate the park in compliance with this resolution, and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the park area, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
E.
Every operator of a travel trailer park shall maintain a register as required by law.
F.
Every park operator shall notify the local health authority immediately of any suspected communicable or contagious disease within the park area. In the case of disease diagnosed by a physical as quarantinable, the departure of the trailer or its occupants or the removal of any articles which have been exposed to infection is prohibited.
