ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-31. - Chairperson.
The chairperson shall act as chairperson of the board of commissioners and is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the chairperson shall enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the board of commissioners. The chairperson shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner.
Sec. 2-32. - Vice-chairperson.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall select a vice-chairperson from the commissioners at the beginning of each calendar year. The vice-chairperson shall fulfill the duties of the chairperson if the chairperson is not in attendance.
(b)
If the chairperson and the vice-chairperson are absent and a quorum is present, the remaining commissioners shall select a commissioner to serve as temporary chairperson of the meeting until either the chairperson or vice-chairperson is present at the meeting.
Sec. 2-33. - Committees.
The chairperson, with the concurrence of the board of commissioners, may create committees of members of the board of commissioners to study any issue before the board of commissioners. Any such committees may make recommendations to the board, but no committee shall be empowered to make any final decision on any matter before it for consideration. In addition to commissioners, committees may include other county officials, staff or citizens at large. Whenever a committee is created, its duties, any litigation on the scope of its duties, and the times, places and periods of time for which the committee may operate shall be determined by the chairperson with the concurrence of the board of commissioners. The chairperson shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees.
Sec. 2-34. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than executive sessions.
Sec. 2-35. - Organizational meeting.
The board of commissioners shall hold an organizational meeting during the month of January. The meeting shall be called to order by the county clerk.
Sec. 2-36. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held on the second Tuesday each month. All regular meetings shall be held in the courthouse or at such other place as the board of commissioners may designate. A notice containing the foregoing information shall be posted and maintained on the bulletin board in the courthouse available to the general public.
Sec. 2-37. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting of the board of commissioners may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location within the county by the chairperson for any reason. Other special meetings may be called as provided by state law. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting of the board of commissioners is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the county clerk to either the legal organ of the county or a newspaper having a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 2-38. - Emergency sessions.
When emergency circumstances occur, the board of commissioners may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the county clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county or a newspaper with a general circulation at least equal to that of the legal organ and to each member of the board of commissioners as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
Sec. 2-39. - Executive sessions.
(a)
Executive sessions of the board of commissioners may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the board of commissioners is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. No executive session of the board of commissioners shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the board of commissioners taken in a public meeting.
(b)
The minutes of the public meeting of the board of commissioners shall reflect the names of the commissioners present, those voting for the executive session and the specific reasons for the executive session. Minutes of the executive session of the board of commissioners may be maintained by the county clerk at the direction of the chairperson. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the board of commissioners may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated.
Sec. 2-40. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the board of commissioners. A quorum is a majority of all of the commissioners then in office. It is the duty of the chairperson to enforce this rule. Any commissioner may raise a point of order directed to the chairperson if he believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a commissioner leaves and a quorum no long exists, the meeting cannot continue. If a quorum is not attained within 30 minutes, the meeting will be rescheduled by the chairperson with the approval of the commissioners present.
Sec. 2-41. - Voting; majority.
Passage of a motion shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of commissioners present and voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present. Unless otherwise specified in these procedures, a majority shall mean more than half of the commissioners present excluding abstentions. Where a three-fifths majority is specified, a majority vote shall mean at least three-fifths of the commissioners present excluding abstentions.
Sec. 2-42. - Abstentions.
A commissioner shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest that would prevent him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the commissioner shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote.
Sec. 2-43. - Agenda.
(a)
The county clerk, with the advice of the chairperson and the commissioners, shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting.
(b)
Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for the following meeting. To be considered, this request must be submitted in writing to the county clerk and received at least three business days before the meeting.
(c)
The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the board of commissioners. A new subject that requires urgent attention may be added to the agenda during a meeting by a three-fifths vote of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 2-44. - Consent agenda.
(a)
A consent agenda may be prepared by the county clerk for the board of commissioners to unanimously adopt motions on routine items. Any items of business that are expected to receive unanimous approval and where no debate is expected may be placed on a consent agenda.
(b)
At the appropriate time of the meeting, the chairperson shall read all of the items on the consent agenda. If a commissioner objects to an item being on the consent agenda, the chairperson shall move that particular item to the regular agenda. Following the reading of the consent agenda, the chairperson will ask for unanimous approval of the items on the consent agenda. If there are no objections, all the items on the consent agenda will be adopted by unanimous consent.
Sec. 2-45. - Minutes.
(a)
The county clerk shall promptly record the minutes for each board of commissioners meeting. The minutes serve as the official written record of the board of commissioners meeting and shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the board of commissioners but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the board of commissioners. The minutes shall specify the names of commissioners present at the meeting, a description of each motion or other proposal made at the meeting, the commissioner who proposed each motion, the commissioner who seconded each motion, and a record of all votes. In the case of a rollcall vote, the name of each commissioner voting for or against a proposal shall be recorded. It shall be presumed that a commissioner has voted in the affirmative unless the minutes show otherwise. More detailed information may be included in the minutes at the request of the board of commissioners.
(b)
The board of commissioners must approve the minutes before they can be considered as an official record of the board of commissioners. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the commissioners at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected and approved by the board of commissioners at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts about the content of the minutes shall be decided by majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the chairperson and attested to by the county clerk.
Sec. 2-46. - Order of business.
All regular board of commissioners meetings shall follow an established order of business. The order is as follows:
(1)
Call to order.
(2)
Minutes.
(3)
Invited guests.
(4)
Reports from committees and departments.
(5)
Consent agenda.
(6)
Old business.
(7)
New business.
(8)
Public comments.
(9)
Adjournment.
Sec. 2-47. - Decorum.
(a)
All commissioners must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks should be directed to the chairperson and not to individual commissioners, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A commissioner is not allowed to speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the chairperson. All comments made by a commissioner shall address the motion that is being discussed.
(b)
The chairperson shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a commissioner believes that a rule has been broken, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chairperson can rule on the question or he may allow the board of commissioners to debate the issue and decide the issue by majority vote.
Sec. 2-48. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the board of commissioners may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1)
Public comments. The final agenda item of the meeting shall be reserved for comments from the public. All members of the public who wish to address the board of commissioners must submit their name and the topic of their comments to the county clerk at least three business days before the board of commissioners meeting. These individuals will be allotted three minutes to make their comments and their comments must be limited to their chosen topic. These limits can be waived by a majority vote of the board of commissioners.
(2)
Public participation on agenda items. By a majority vote, the board of commissioners may allow public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the board of commissioners. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for three minutes and may only speak once. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the board of commissioners. Anyone wishing to speak at any board of commissioners meeting must be recognized by the chairperson before addressing the board of commissioners.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a board of commissioners meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for commissioners. Individuals who violate any rules of the board of commissioners may be ruled out of order by the chairperson or on a point of order made by a commissioner. A majority vote of the board of commissioners will rule on the point of order. An individual who violates the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the chairperson.
(4)
Public hearings. The board of commissioners may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the board of commissioners. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the board of commissioners or at such other places and times as the board of commissioners may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing. The county attorney shall hold such public meeting on their behalf.
Sec. 2-49. - Amendments to rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order must be submitted by a commissioner in writing to the county clerk before a regular meeting of the board of commissioners. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all commissioners. All amendments require a three-fifths vote of the board of commissioners to be adopted.
Sec. 2-50. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable and requires a three-fifths vote of the board of commissioners. Rules governing quorum, voting methods and requirements, and the notification to commissioners of meetings and rules necessary for compliance with state law cannot be suspended.
Sec. 2-51. - Visual and sound recordings.
Visual, sound, and visual and sound recordings may be permitted for all public meetings.
Secs. 2-52—2-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-71. - Rules of procedure.
The board of commissioners may create such rules as they may deem advisable.
Sec. 2-72. - Parliamentarian.
The county attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for board of commissioners meetings.
Secs. 2-73—2-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LEGISLATION

Sec. 2-91. - Legislative authority generally.
The board of commissioners shall exercise the legislative functions of the county, and may pass any ordinance or resolution that it deems best for the government of the county; however, such ordinance or resolution is not to be in conflict with state law, the state constitution, or the constitution or the laws of the United States.
Sec. 2-92. - Ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, all ordinances, resolutions, contracts and interlocal agreements of the county shall be prepared, approved, introduced and adopted in the manner provided in this division.
Sec. 2-93. - Preparation of ordinances.
Whenever possible, all ordinances shall be prepared with the assistance of the county attorney.
Sec. 2-94. - Adoption of ordinances, resolutions, contracts.
An ordinance, resolution or contract shall be deemed adopted or approved when it receives an affirmative vote of a majority of the whole board of commissioners.
Sec. 2-95. - Effective date of ordinances.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time shall take effect immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
Secs. 2-96—2-120. - Reserved.
