Chapter 50 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. §12-8 20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; yard trimmings, disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2: Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. §12-8-60 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; transportation of biomedical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1; solid waste management education program, establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50.8-7.3; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX. § II, ¶ III(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 50-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Brown goods means furniture, furnishings, mattresses and other bedding materials, cardboard boxes, and other items of like kind.
Commercial establishment means any hotel, motel, apartment dwelling, roominghouse, business, industrial, public or semipublic establishment of any nature or kind whatsoever, other than a one- or two-family dwelling unit or condominium.
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial waste.
Construction/demolition waste means waste building materials and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition operations of pavements, houses, commercial buildings and other structures. The term "construction/demolition waste" includes, but is not limited to, asbestos containing waste, wood, bricks, metal, concrete, wallboard, paper cardboard, inert waste, landfill material, and other nonputrescible wastes which have a low potential for groundwater contamination.
Dispose means to get rid of, deal with conclusively, or transfer to the control of another.
Garbage means food waste, including waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter used or intended for use as food, or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Industrial waste.
(1)
The term "industrial waste" means solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial processes or operations that is not a hazardous waste regulated under the Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, waste resulting from the following manufacturing processes: electric power generations; fertilizer and agricultural chemicals; food-related products and byproducts; inorganic chemicals; iron and steel products; leather and leather products; nonferrous metal and foundry products; organic chemicals, plastics and resins; pulp and paper; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone, glass, clay, and concrete products; textiles; transportation equipment: and water treatment.
(2)
The term "industrial waste" does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste.
Manufactured home community means a lot used or intended for use as a residential area occupied by five or more manufactured homes.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households including garbage, trash, and sanitary waste in septic tanks and means solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste, but does not include construction and demolition waste and solid waste from mining, agricultural, or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Open dump means a disposal facility in which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, to burn, or to otherwise create a threat to human health or the environment.
Owner means any person owning, leasing, renting, occupying, or managing any premises within the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners.
Person means the state or any other state agency or institution thereof, any municipality, county, political subdivision, public or private corporation, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste management activities, individual, partnership, association or other entity in this state or any other state. The term "person" also includes any other governing or managing body of any municipality, political subdivision, or solid waste authority special district empowered to engage in solid waste activities, or public or private corporation in this state or any other state. The term "person" also includes employees, departments, and agencies of the federal government.
Plastic bag means a polyethylene or other heavy duty plastic bag meeting the National Sanitation Foundation Standard of at least 1.5 mills and not exceeding a 30-gallon capacity, with securing twist ties.
Putrescible waste means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. Examples of putrescible waste include but are not necessarily limited to kitchen wastes, animal manure, offal, hatchery and poultry processing plant wastes, and garbage.
Recovered materials means those materials which have known use, reuse, or recycling potential; can be feasibly used, reused, or recycled; and have been diverted or removed from the solid waste stream for sale, use, reuse, or recycling, whether or not requiring subsequent separation and processing.
Recycling means any process by which materials which would otherwise become solid waste are collected, separated, or processed and reused or returned to use in the form of raw materials or products.
Refuse means garbage, rubbish or commercial solid waste.
Residential unit means any freestanding structure or shelter or any part thereof used or constructed for use as a residence for one family.
Rubbish means discarded wastepaper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, cans, glass, crockery, dunnage and/or similar materials.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where putrescible solid waste are disposed of by means of placing an earth cover thereon and which is approved by the state department of natural resources for such purpose.
Scrap tire means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
Scrap tire carrier means any person engaged in picking up transporting scrap tires not otherwise exempted under O.C.G.A. § 391-3-4-19(5g) of the state rules of solid waste management for the purpose of removal to a scrap tire processor, end user, or disposal facility.
Scrap tire generator means any person who generates scrap tires as defined in O.C.G.A. § 391-3-4, 19(2.i) of the state rules of solid waste management.
Solid waste means any garbage or refuse, sludge from a wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other discarded material including solid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, and agricultural operations and community activities, but does not include recovered materials; solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage; solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges that are point sources subject to permit under 33 USC 1342; or source, special nuclear, or byproduct material as defined by the federal Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 923).
Solid waste handling means the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing or disposal of solid waste or any combination of such activities.
Solid waste handling facility means any facility, the primary purpose of which is the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposal or any combination thereof of solid waste.
Tire retailer means any person engaged in the business of selling new replacement tires.
Waste stream means the total flow of solid waste from residential units, commercial establishments, condominiums, apartments, institutions and the like to its ultimate disposal site or facility.
White goods means household appliances and other items of like kind.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural, and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-1)
Sec. 50-32. - Penalty for violating this section.
Any person who violates any part of this article, pertaining to solid waste regulations, may be charged by citation, or by accusation, to the magistrate court of the county, and, upon conviction, shall be fined a fine from $125.00 to $500.00 and/or sentenced to the county jail for a period up to 60 days. Each day of violation shall be a new and separate offense.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-91)
Sec. 50-33. - Purpose.
The board of commissioners hereby finds that the public health, safety and well-being of the citizen of the unincorporated area of the county would be adversely affected should individual citizens be allowed to dispose of solid waste and scrap tires upon private property. The board of commissioners further finds that it would be in the public interest for the board to pass this article further regulating garbage, scrap tires, and other solid waste collection and disposal in the unincorporated area of the county.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-2)
Sec. 50-34. - Violations and enforcement.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and intentionally violate any of the sections of this article.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and with intent to defraud the county or its designated contract collector, to evade or defeat or attempt to evade or defeat any fee, charge, penalty or interest due the county or its contract collector or the payment thereof imposed by this article.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or attempt to burn or cause to be burned any material of any nature in any container belonging to or used by the county or its designated contract collector for residential solid waste collection purposes.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and intentionally damage or destroy or to allow or permit damage to or destruction of any container provided by the county or its designated contract collector.
(e)
Each violation of any of the sections of this article shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided in section 50-32. Such violations may be tried upon citations with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as upon accusations as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. Service upon corporations, partnerships and other entities and organizations shall be effective by serving any managing agent located in the county or by serving the registered agent or any officer or partner of the corporation, partnership, organization or entity. This article may also be enforced through other remedies, such as injunctive relief as provided by the laws of this state.
(f)
Whenever a corporation, partnership, organization, or other artificial entity shall violate any of the sections of this article, such violation shall be deemed to be that of the individual directors, officers or agents of such corporation, partnership, organization or other artificial entity who shall have authorized, ordered or done any of the acts constituting in whole or in part any such violation. In such cases, service shall also be made upon the individual director or other agent accused of authorizing, ordering or doing acts constituting in whole or in part violations of this article.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-3)
Sec. 50-35. - Exemptions.
(a)
This article shall not apply to any individual disposing of putrescible wastes and yard trimmings originating from his residence or farm onto land or facilities owned by him when disposal of such wastes does not thereby adversely affect the public health or violate any county zoning ordinance. This article shall not apply to any individual, corporation, partnership or cooperative disposing of livestock feeding facility waste from facilities with a capacity of up to 1,000 cattle or 5,000 swine. If such individual, corporation, partnership, or cooperative shall provide an approved waste disposal system which is capable of properly disposing of the runoff from a ten-year storm, such individual, corporation, partnership or cooperative shall be further exempt regardless of total per-head capacity. Nothing in this article shall limit the right of any person to use poultry or other animal manure for fertilizer, nor from composting any kind of vegetative material.
(b)
This article shall not apply to any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity not collecting and disposing of municipal solid waste, commercial solid waste, construction/demolition waste, scrap tires, or industrial waste for a fee, but who is a holder of a valid solid waste handling permit from the director of the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources pursuant to rules of the state department of natural resources environmental protection division O.C.G.A. §§ 391-3-4.02 and 391-3-4.06 for disposal or on-site burial. Such disposal shall be governed by state environmental protection regulations.
(c)
Composting is expressly allowed or permitted pursuant to this article.
(d)
Dead animals shall be disposed of pursuant to state law.
(e)
Sections of this article requiring the disposal of municipal solid waste and garbage from residences by wheeled containers provided by the county or its contract collector shall not apply to the principal residence of any individual who owns a business located in the unincorporated area of the county and such individual has a dumpster at his business for the disposal of municipal solid waste and garbage. This exemption is limited to the principal residence of the owner of the business.
(f)
Sections of this article requiring each residential unit to have a wheeled container provided by the county or its contract collector shall not apply to a disabled parent as determined by a physician's certificate or a parent over 65 years old and who lives in a residential unit on the same lot with a son or daughter. The elderly or disabled parent may share a wheeled container with the child in this circumstance.
(g)
All persons defined as scrap tire generators, scrap tire carriers, and tire retailers shall handle scrap tires in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq. and the rules for solid waste management, chapter 391-3-4, applicable to solid waste.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-4)
Sec. 50-36. - Dumping or burying garbage, refuse, rubbish, scrap tires or brown and white goods.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or bury or to cause to be dumped or buried any garbage, refuse, rubbish, scrap tires, or brown and white goods anywhere in the unincorporated area of the county.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-5)
Sec. 50-37. - Transportation in vehicles.
It shall be unlawful to drive or operate a vehicle in the county hauling municipal, commercial, or industrial solid waste that leaks, flows freely or spills from the vehicle.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-6)
Sec. 50-38. - Covering of vehicles.
Any litter or municipal, commercial, or industrial solid waste hauled on a moving vehicle shall be covered or secured in such a manner that litter will not blow or escape from the vehicle while moving or parked on public or private property in the unincorporated area of the county.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-7)
Sec. 50-39. - County authority.
The county shall have the exclusive right to collect and dispose of all residential solid waste within the unincorporated area of the county either through county employees or through contract with an entity engaged in the business of residential solid waste collection and disposal.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-8)
Sec. 50-40. - Prohibited acts.
(a)
No individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall engage in solid waste handling except in such a manner as to conform to and comply with this article and all applicable state and federal legislation, rules, regulations and orders.
(b)
No individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall collect, remove, transport or dispose of any municipal solid waste or scrap tires within the unincorporated areas of the county unless they are so authorized by contract or agreement with the board of commissioners or state law.
(c)
No solid waste or scrap tires may be disposed of by any person in an open dump, nor may any person cause, suffer, allow or permit open dumping on his property.
(d)
The owner or occupant of any premises, office, business establishment, institution, industry or similar facility shall be responsible for the collection and transportation of all solid waste and scrap tire accumulated at the premises, office, business establishment, institution, or similar facility to a solid waste handling facility operating in compliance with the state environmental protection division rules and regulations unless arrangements have been made for such services with a collector operating in compliance with this article.
(e)
No owner or occupant shall allow the accumulation on premises under his control or on or about his residential unit or commercial establishment of solid waste or scrap tires where the accumulation of such solid waste or scrap tires creates or may create a health hazard to neighbors or other citizens, is unsightly, or emits foul or obnoxious odors which constitute either a public or private nuisance or is in violation of state law. Such conduct shall constitute a violation of this article. Each day the solid waste or scrap tires remain on the premises may constitute a separate violation of this article.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-9)
Sec. 50-41. - Preparation and storage of residential refuse for collection; placement; unacceptable refuse.
It shall be the duty of both the occupant and owner of every residential unit located in the unincorporated area of the county to keep all solid waste generated by each such residential unit pending collection and disposal by the county or its contract collector as follows;
(1)
All solid waste shall be free from excessive liquid and placed in watertight plastic bags with the top secured and placed in a solid waste container. One 95-gallon wheeled container shall be provided to each residential unit by the county or its contract collector for use by that unit for solid waste storage and disposal purposes.
(2)
Solid waste shall be bagged and stored in wheeled containers furnished by the county or it contract collector which shall be covered at all times. Such containers must be kept clean. Cardboard boxes which, because of size, cannot be placed in the wheeled containers furnished by the county or its contract collector shall be placed alongside the container at the place of roadside collection. Full containers and other items to be collected must be placed at the roadside by 7:00 a.m. on regular collection days or on the next collection day if the regular collection day falls on a holiday.
(3)
All brown goods generated by the occupant or residential unit, or other user shall be delivered by said occupant, residential unit or other user to a roll-off dumpster furnished by the county contract collector at the county maintenance shop property located at 390 Industrial Blvd, Buena Vista, Georgia, located directly across the street from Baby's Dream Furniture, Inc., and deposit said brown goods in said roll-off dumpster.
(4)
All white goods generated by the occupant or residential unit or other users shall be delivered by said user to an area where the county maintains an area for discarded white goods, and deposit said white goods in the area where said white goods are normally stored; said location being at 390 Industrial Blvd., Buena Vista, Georgia, directly across the street from Baby's Dream Furniture, Inc. When an occupant or residential unit or other user deposits any white goods at said location, the said occupant, residential unit shall deposit said white goods adjacent to other white goods stored at said location.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-10)
Sec. 50-42. - General conditions of residential collection.
modified
(a)
The county or its contract collector shall provide at a minimum, weekly roadside collection of residential solid waste.
(b)
The county or its designated contract collector may decline to collect solid waste contained in unauthorized containers, any containers that contain excessive liquids, (or any residential solid waste not properly contained.
(c)
The county shall not be responsible for the collection of discarded building materials, dirt and rock nor shall it be responsible for collecting and hauling building materials, trees, tree trimmings, yard trimmings, bushes, or other vegetation or trash or waste material from commercial tree trimmers, landscapers, or building contractors.
(d)
It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, tenant and lessee of each residential unit to remove and place all solid waste generated by the occupants of each such residential unit in bags placed in the wheeled container furnished for solid waste removal and to place the wheeled container at the location designated for collection on designated pickup days.
(e)
Occupants shall place garbage receptacles on assigned collection days at front roadside locations in such manner as not to obstruct passage. Occupants shall place such receptacles within three feet of the back of the curb or edge of the road paving at or before 7:00 a.m. or prior to the arrival of the collection vehicles. This placement shall not be made before 5:00 p.m. on the day prior to the collection day. Garbage or refuse placed near the road or street after departure of the collection crew of the county or its contract collector shall subject the occupant to prosecution for violation of this article.
(f)
The occupant shall remove the wheeled container from the roadside location to the storage location, which storage location shall be nearer to the residential unit located on the premises than to any road abutting the premises or shall be a location hidden from view of any road which abuts the premises. Removal should be accomplished within a reasonable time following collection on the day the contents are emptied and collected.
(g)
The occupant shall prevent the continued, excessive and unsightly accumulation of refuse upon the property or the public thoroughfare bounding upon the occupant's property.
(h)
It shall be a violation of this article to place or cause to be placed for collection any scrap tires, acid, explosive material, flammable liquids or dangerous or corrosive material of any kind.
(i)
Solid waste generated from the conduct of customary home occupations, as defined in the county, carried on from residential dwelling units will be collected as household solid waste.
(j)
All garbage will be collected by the county or its contract collector if placed in plastic receptacles of not more than 95-gallon capacity and receptacles otherwise approved by the county. No open containers or plastic bags shall be permitted except as provided for in this article.
(k)
During any week in which there is a legal holiday or extremely harsh weather conditions, such as snow or ice, the county or its contract collector shall be required to collect residential solid waste once during such week.
(l)
The county may establish exceptions for designated residential units which are determined to be unsuitable for roadside pickup, taking into consideration the terrain features or other physical impediments. At such premises, pickup service shall be provided to the residential units as determined by the county or, in the alternative, the occupant may be instructed to place only securely tied, plastic bags at a designated location on scheduled pickup days.
(m)
The wheeled containers furnished by the county or its contract collector shall not be removed from the premises of the residential unit for which they are delivered. It shall be the duty of the occupant of the residential unit, if the dwelling is to be vacated by the occupant, to notify the county or its contract collector seven days prior to the vacancy.
(n)
If a container previously furnished by the county or its contract collector to any residential unit is damaged, destroyed or stolen, it shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the premises to immediately notify the county or its contract collector and to cooperate with the county commission and the county sheriff in investigating the cause of the damage, destruction or theft. Further, the owner or occupant shall, if requested to do so, appear in the appropriate court as a witness should a prosecution result from the investigation. A replacement container shall be furnished to the residential unit, and such unit may be charged a replacement fee or new deposit as determined by the county or its contract collector.
(o)
Additional containers may be obtained by each residential unit upon payment of an additional monthly fee to the county or its contract collector.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-11; Ord. of 5-14-2019)
Sec. 50-43. - Use of disposal facilities required; notice of service termination; resumption of service.
(a)
The owner and occupant of each residential unit, including residential units located in manufactured home communities, shall dispose of solid waste only by the means of a collection and disposal service provided by the county or its designated contractor.
(b)
The owner of every manufactured home community shall provide a dumpster for the use of the residents of the community or may require each residence to have a separate wheeled container. The dumpster so provided shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the needs of the community.
(c)
Whenever a residential unit becomes vacant, destroyed by fire or other casualty or is demolished or for some other similar reason no longer generates solid waste, it is incumbent severally upon the owner and former occupant of the residential unit to notify the county in writing of the situation. The county may cause such investigation of the report as it deems appropriate, and, if the county finds the report to be consistent with this section, the residential unit in question shall be removed from the solid waste collection list and the fee shall thereupon cease. Until such notice shall have been received by the county, however, the fee shall continue to be charged and shall continue to be collectable, notwithstanding the fact that service is not in fact rendered to the residential unit. Similarly, if service has been discontinued pursuant to a notice as provided in this section but is thereafter resumed or if land which was previously vacant has been improved with residential unit and begins to receive service, it shall be incumbent on the owner and occupant, severally, to notify the county of such commencement of or resumption of service. The fee prescribed in this article shall be payable for such property from and after the date of resumption of service, whether or not notice has been received.
(d)
The county or its designated contract collector may charge a fee and/or require a deposit for the resumption of service to the owner and/or occupant of a residential unit where service has been previously discontinued. The amount of such fee and/or deposit shall be that as set from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-12)
Sec. 50-44. - Elderly and disabled.
(a)
Any person who is a fulltime resident of a residential dwelling unit and who is disabled to the extent that the person is incapable of moving such person's refuse shall obtain a physicians certificate as to such disability. Disabled persons shall not be required to place the refuse at the roadside. A disabled person shall, however, place the solid waste in a plastic bag with the top secured and placed in a wheeled container furnished by the county or its contract collector near the back door on regularly scheduled collection days. This subsection shall not apply unless all of the adult persons in a residential unit are disabled and obtain such physician's certificates. Certificates must be mailed to the contract collector with a copy to the board of commissioners. This subsection also applies to temporary disability not to exceed 90 days. The county or its contract collectors may make reasonable rules for non-roadside collection for elderly and disabled persons which are not inconsistent with this article.
(b)
Whenever the owner or occupant of a residential unit from which solid waste is collected by the county or its contract collector authorizes or permits the use of a private driveway or other portion of private property for such collection, such authorization or permission, whether express or implied, shall be deemed to constitute a waiver on the part of the owner or occupant of the residential unit of any claim for any damages against the county, its officers, agents, employees, and contractors which result from the use of such private property in the collection process.
(c)
The county and any person acting as its contractor pursuant to contract shall be deemed to have been invited and authorized to enter upon private property for the purpose of collection of solid waste when other than roadside collection has been requested by the owner or occupant of a residential unit and approved by the county.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-13)
Sec. 50-45. - Collection rates.
(a)
The fees for the collection and disposal of residential solid waste within the county shall be established from time to time by action of the board of commissioners. This fee may be billed monthly, quarterly, biannually or annually by the county or its contract collector to each residential unit.
(b)
The owner or principal occupant of a residence who is totally disabled based on a physician's certificate may utilize a bag system for disposing of household garbage. The person qualifying for this system must purchase from the county or its contract collector a minimum number of plastic bags per month which meet the quality standards of this article. These bags will then be used instead of wheeled containers to dispose of household garbage and will be placed at the roadside for collection in the same manner as provided in this article for wheeled container unless otherwise exempted.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-14)
Sec. 50-46. - Payment of fees.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall, by resolution set the fee for all solid waste collection. They also may determine when it is due and how it is to be paid. A late payment penalty and an assessment of interest shall be imposed upon each account for which payment is not made within the time limits prescribed in this section.
(b)
The fees for collection of residential solid waste levied pursuant to this article and all late charges and interest accruing thereon are hereby deemed and constituted a tax and are hereby levied severally against the owner and occupant of each residential unit, including all residential units located in manufactured home communities covered by this article. The fees, late charges and interest prescribed in this section shall be treated in all respects as provided by law with respect to ad valorem and state taxes, and uncollected fees, late charges and interest shall constitute a continuing lien against the real property upon which each residential unit is located, on the personal property composing a residential unit, and upon the personal property of the occupant of each residential unit, until paid. Writs of fieri facias may be issued by the county for fees which are past due, and collection may be effected as provided by law for ad valorem and other state taxes, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.3 or other applicable law. The fees for solid waste collection hereby levied shall be due and payable on the date set by the board of commissioners. If the fees are not paid by the date set by the board of commissioners, there is hereby levied a late charge equal to ten percent of the amount due or $1.00, whichever is greater. Additionally, interest will be charged against all uncollected fees over 30 days past due at the same rate of interest borne by uncollected ad valorem taxes.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-15)
Sec. 50-47. - General conditions of commercial collection.
(a)
The owner or occupant of any premises, office, business establishment, institution or industry or similar commercial establishment shall be responsible for the collection and transportation of all solid waste accumulated at such premises, establishment or facility to a solid waste handling facility operating in compliance with state regulation and must arrange for service with an approved contract collector.
(b)
The holder of a valid solid waste handling permit from the state department of natural resources shall be exempt from such contracting.
(c)
No business license or renewal thereof shall be issued until the owner or occupant of such premises provides the business license office of the board of commissioners with the name of the contract collector which provides collection for the business or an exception has been granted by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-16)
Secs. 50-48—50-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DUMPSTER REGULATIONS

Sec. 50-71. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial waste.
Industrial waste.
(1)
The term "industrial waste" means solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial processes or operations that is not a hazardous waste regulated under the Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act. Such waste includes but is not limited to waste resulting from the following manufacturing processes: electric power generations; fertilizer and agricultural chemicals; food-related products and byproducts; inorganic chemicals; iron and steel products; leather and leather products; nonferrous metal and foundry products; organic chemicals, plastics and resins; pulp and paper; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone, glass, clay, and concrete products; textiles; transportation equipment: and water treatment.
(2)
The term "industrial waste" does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-71)
Sec. 50-72. - Penalty for violating this article.
modified
Any person who violates any part of this article, pertaining to dumpster regulations, may be charged by citation, or by accusation, to the magistrate court of the county, and upon conviction, shall be fined a fine of $500.00 and/or sentenced to the county jail for a period up to 60 days. Each day of violation shall be a new and separate offense.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-91; Ord. of 8-11-2015)
Sec. 50-73. - Use for dumpsters.
County contract collectors may contract with businesses, commercial establishments, industrial establishments and others to furnish a dumpster for such business or others' use for the collection of applicable waste. All costs for said dumpster shall be born by the person requesting the dumpster.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-72)
Sec. 50-74. - Use for commercial solid waste and industrial waste.
All dumpsters maintained and provided for use by the contract collector shall be for commercial solid waste or industrial waste except in these cases where household garbage is allowed under these ordinances.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-73)
Sec. 50-75. - Dumping other materials.
It shall be unlawful for any person who has contracted with the county contract collector for a dumpster to be placed on his property to dump any materiel other than commercial solid waste and industrial waste into a dumpster pursuant to an agreement between the person with the dumpster and the county contract collector, except in those cases where household garbage is allowed by these ordinances.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-75)
Sec. 50-76. - Dumping other than in container.
No person shall dump, deposit, or place any trash, garbage, or other such materials at a dumpster site maintained by the county contract collector for use by the person contracting with county contract collector at any place other than totally within the dumpster container.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-76)
Sec. 50-77. - Scavenging or removal of contents.
No person shall enter, reach into, scavenge from, or remove any contents from a garbage or trash dumpster maintained by the county and/or the county contract collector.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-77)
Sec. 50-78. - Loitering on site.
No person shall loiter upon, park, stand, or remain on the premises of any dumpster site maintained by the county contract collector, except the person who contracts with the county contract collector to have a dumpster on his premises, or his family, agents, servants, employees or representatives.
(Ord. of 9-12-2006, § 54-78)
Secs. 50-79—50-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - LITTER CONTROL

Sec. 50-91. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative officer means the person authorized by the board of commissioners to implement and enforce the provisions of this article, or his representative.
Board means the legally designated administrative authority of the county.
Collector means a person who, under formal agreement, verbal or written, with or without remuneration, does the work of collecting and/or hauling solid wastes.
Dumpster means a container provided by the county intended to be used for the dumping of household garbage.
Littering means the scattering of rubbish, waste material, cans, refuse, garbage, trash, dead animals or discarded materials of every kind and description.
Scavenge means uncontrolled picking from discarded garbage that had been placed in dumpsters.
(Ord. No. 85-22-05, § I, 2-5-1985)
Sec. 50-92. - Penalty.
Any person who violates the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense, or the court may order the violator to pick up litter from a specified area.
(Ord. No. 85-22-05, § III, 2-5-1985)
Sec. 50-93. - Administration.
The board, in order to protect the health and safety of the people of the county, authorizes and directs its administrative officer by implementing and enforcing the provisions of these regulations to control the storage, collection and disposal of solid waste in the county. The administrative officer shall plan, organize, procure equipment and personnel and manage and operate solid waste collection, transportation and disposal service.
(Ord. No. 85-22-05, § II, 2-5-1985)
Sec. 50-94. - Collection and control; scavenging and littering prohibited.
(a)
Dumpsters and containers. Dumpsters shall be provided at various sites throughout the county to store solid waste material for the authorized collector. No person shall place any solid waste on any public place, roadway or private premise except in proper containers for collection or under express prior approval of the administrative officer.
(b)
Unauthorized accumulations. Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste on any premises is declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of solid waste within such reasonable time as may be fixed by written notice of the administrative officer shall be a violation of this article.
(c)
Scavenging. No person other than an agent of the administrative officer shall remove or take any of the contents of any such dumpster. Scavenging and littering shall be strictly prohibited.
(Ord. No. 85-22-05, § III, 2-5-1985)
