ARTICLE IV. - OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Cross reference— Stopping, standing and parking, § 94-81 et seq.

Sec. 102-511. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide regulations to foster safe and efficient circulation of vehicles and pedestrians on private and public streets and to minimize nuisances from on-street parking.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § 14.1)
Sec. 102-512. - Off-street parking generally.
(a)
Off-street parking and storage space shall be provided on every lot on which any of the uses mentioned in this chapter are established. Such automobile parking or storage space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley.
(b)
If the required automobile parking or storage space cannot be provided on the same lot on which the principal use is located, the zoning board may permit such space to be provided on other off-street property provided such space is within 500 feet of such principal use. Such space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
(c)
All off-street automobile parking and storage space except for single-family residential uses shall be so arranged that vehicles will not be required to back onto a public street, road or highway when leaving the premises.
(d)
Off-street parking areas shall be graded to ensure proper drainage, surfaced with all-weather gravel, asphalt or concrete materials and maintained in a clean, orderly and dust-free condition.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § 14.2)
Sec. 102-513. - Parking in residential districts.
All parking areas serving single-family detached or attached dwellings shall conform to the following requirements:
(1)
If garages or carports are converted to living area, then the off-street parking requirements must be met elsewhere on the lot.
(2)
No inoperable vehicle shall be permitted in any residential district for more than 14 days unless it is in an enclosed garage. All major repairs including but not limited to rebuilding engines, transmissions or heavy bodywork shall be in an enclosed garage or accessory building in residential districts.
(3)
No commercial vehicle as licensed by the state with a gross vehicle weight (GVW) exceeding 11,000 pounds shall be allowed to park in R1, R2, or multifamily residential districts unless it can be completely enclosed.
(4)
Commercial vehicles, licensed by the state, buses and recreational vehicles shall not be allowed to park overnight on the street in any residential district.
(5)
Recreational vehicles are prohibited from parking in the front yard in any residential district and must be parked in an area of the yard least visible from any public street.
(Ord. of 7-7-2003, § 14.3)
Secs. 102-514—102-540. - Reserved.
