Chapter 14 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible; to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Code 1975, § 4-601)
Secs. 14-2—14-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LOCAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 14-21. - Office of the city civil defense coordinator.
In agreement with the governing officials, there is hereby established the city civil defense office. The mayor of the city with concurrence of other city officials shall nominate, for appointment by the director of the state emergency management agency, a coordinator of civil defense for the city. When appointed, the civil defense coordinator is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to civil preparedness.
(2)
To assist city officials in organizing city departments, for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city departments and agencies, the city plan for emergency functions set forth in section 14-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the city and thence to the state emergency management director for approval.
(4)
To maintain the civil defense office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the city civil preparedness and disaster program including the rendering of required reports to the state emergency management office.
(5)
To render reports such as financial, daily activity, etc., as required by governing officials in keeping with good business practices.
(6)
To procure, with the authority of the governing officials, a facility to be used as the city emergency operating center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the city emergency operating center staff during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of city governing officials.
(Code 1975, § 4-602)
Sec. 14-22. - City civil defense organization.
(a)
The city civil defense organization shall be established around existing city departments and agencies and the emergency functions listed in this chapter are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Departments Emergency Functions
(1) Executive (city elected officials) Director and control
Public information
Supply and finances
(2) Police (city police department) Security
Movement
Search
Communications
Warning
(3) Fire Control (city fire department) Fire control
Volunteer Rescue
Damage assessment
(4) Public works and engineering Utilities and public services
Restoration
Hazards Analysis
(5) Human resources, including:
a. Division of family and children services Human needs, including welfare
b. Division of physical health Health Control
c. Hospital services Medical and mortuary services
d. Ambulance services Casualty transport
(6) Civil defense Shelter
Radar
Rescue
Assistance in industrial and institutional
Emergency planning
  (b)
Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the civil defense coordinator to the mayor and governing officials of the city for approval.
(Code 1975, § 4-603)
Sec. 14-23. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor of the city and the governing officials of the city may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws, and regulations relating to civil defense and to assume direct operational control over all civil defense resources.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use, or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city; to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1975, § 4-604)
Sec. 14-24. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1975, § 4-605)
Sec. 14-25. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable according to the general penalties described in section 1-9 of this Code.
(Code 1975, § 4-606)
Sec. 14-26. - Liberality of construction.
This article shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 1975, § 4-607)
Sec. 14-27. - Adoption of National Incident Management System (NIMS).
The city hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS), as established under Homeland Security Presidential Directive/HSPD 5, and the Unified Command System, as established under O.C.G.A. § 38-3-57, as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents and directs all incident managers and response organizations in the city to train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Ord. of 11-8-2005)
Secs. 14-28—14-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCIES

Sec. 14-58. - Powers of mayor; procedures.
(a)
The following emergency powers are hereby granted to the mayor with the provision that said powers shall be exercised only in the event of emergency, as herein contemplated, and shall be exercised only for such periods of time as the actual emergency exists and further that said powers shall only be invoked after a declaration and proclamation by the mayor that such an emergency does, in fact, exist.
(b)
The mayor, as the executive head of the city government, shall have the following emergency powers:
(1)
The mayor shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in his considered opinion, one or more of the following conditions exists:
a.
There is extreme probability of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
b.
Civil unrest, commotion, riot or uprising is imminent or exists.
c.
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(2)
After declaration of such emergency, the mayor shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
a.
The power to use employees of the city to assist in the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizens of the city and the safety thereof.
b.
The power to close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
c.
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations.
d.
The power to close business establishments within the affected area.
e.
The power to close, to the use of the general public, any and all municipally owned buildings and other facilities.
f.
The power to do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizens of the city.
(3)
No emergency power, as set forth herein, may be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the mayor.
(4)
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or called meeting of the mayor and council.
(5)
The declaration of an emergency, as to a portion of the city, shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(c)
Each violation of any provision of this section shall constitute an offense under the terms hereof and every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished in the municipal court as provided in the Charter of the city for punishment for violations of the ordinances of the city.
(Code 1975, § 2-301)
