Chapter 22 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REGULATIONS

Sec. 22-21. - Volunteer fire department recognized.
The city hereby recognizes the Pearson Volunteer Fire Department as the fire department of the city and shall appropriate funds for the support thereof as determined annually by the mayor and council.
(Code 1975, § 4-101)
Sec. 22-22. - Duties of chief of police at fires.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police of the city to attend in person, or send some other member of the police force in response to every fire call in the city. It shall be the duty of the chief of police or other police officer attending said fire to see that proper order is observed at said fire; to see that the members of the fire department are protected in the discharge of their duties; to see that all people visiting said fires are kept a sufficient distance from the fire; to see that not more than only such number as are absolutely necessary to fight the fire and to remove furniture, etc., enter the burning building; to prohibit absolutely all children from entering any building that may be on fire; to see that traffic in and around said fire is properly regulated; to see that all official orders of the chief of the fire department are obeyed and to do any and every other thing that may be necessary for the safety and welfare of those attending said fire, who are not violating any of the provisions of this article.
(Code 1975, § 4-102)
Sec. 22-23. - Use of fire hydrants.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use water from any fire hydrant, whether public or private, for any purpose other than for the extinguishment of fires, or lawful city purposes.
(Code 1975, § 4-103)
Sec. 22-24. - Tampering with fire hydrants.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper or interfere with any hydrant of the city fire station house or on any of the streets except by the authority of the plumbing inspector.
(Code 1975, § 4-104)
Sec. 22-25. - Obstructing entrance to fire station.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner the entrance to the city fire station house.
(Code 1975, § 4-105)
Sec. 22-26. - Damaging equipment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and knowingly injure or damage in any way any of the automobile fire apparatus, or other equipment or paraphernalia of the fire department.
(Code 1975, § 4-106)
State Law reference— Unlawful to damage, injure or interfere with property of municipalities or political subdivisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 22-27. - False alarm; reward offered.
The mayor is authorized to pay a reward for the arrest, with proof to convict, of any person maliciously sending in a false alarm from any of the fire alarm boxes located in the city. The amount of the reward shall be set by resolution of the mayor and council from time to time.
(Code 1975, § 4-107)
Sec. 22-28. - Driving over fire hose.
It shall be unlawful for any person driving any motor, or any motorcycle, motorcar, automobiles or bicycle, to pass over or cross, or otherwise interfere with any of the hoses owned or used by the city, when the same is laid on the streets for the purpose of fighting fire or for other purposes in said city; and any person violating this article shall be punished as prescribed in section 6.03 of the city Charter.
(Code 1975, § 4-108)
Sec. 22-29. - Riding on fire truck.
It shall be unlawful for any person except duly approved and accepted volunteer firefighters, or other regular members and officers of the fire department of the city to mount or ride upon any automobile, truck or other vehicle used in connection with the fire department while said vehicle is responding to a fire call, or while the same is in attendance upon a fire, or at any time. Any person violating this article shall be punished as prescribed in section 6.03 of the city Charter.
(Code 1947, § 103; Code 1975, § 4-109)
Secs. 22-30—22-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MUTUAL AID

Sec. 22-56. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aiding municipality or county means a municipality or county furnishing fire equipment to a stricken municipality or county, or to another aiding municipality or county.
Municipality or county means a city, village or incorporated fire protection district.
Mutual fire aid program means a plan or program as provided for in this agreement whereby the municipalities or counties participating in the program agree to come to one another's assistance in case of fire or other disaster too large for local equipment and personnel to handle.
Participating municipality or county means a municipality or county that participates in the mutual fire aid program by adopting an ordinance authorizing or approving the program and entering into an appropriate agreement (substantially as provided herein) with other participating municipalities for rendering and receiving first aid in case of fire or other disaster.
Stricken municipality or county means a participating municipality or county in which a fire or other disaster occurs that is of such magnitude that it cannot be adequately coped with by local firefighting equipment and personnel.
(Ord. of 7-14-1998, § 1)
Sec. 22-57. - Agreement to effectuate the mutual fire aid program.
The city mayor or the chairman of the county commissioners is authorized on behalf of the city/county to enter into (and from time to time alter and amend) this agreement with any or all of the municipalities or counties in the mutual aid area defining and putting into effect a mutual aid program providing generally as follows:
(1)
In the event that, in the judgment of the officer in charge of the fire department of a stricken municipality or county, the available firefighting equipment of that municipality or county is inadequate to effectively cope with a fire or other disaster therein, said officer may call on a neighboring participating municipality or county to furnish firefighting equipment and personnel (to the extent specified in the agreement) to the stricken municipality or county, for use, either in combating the fire or other casualty, or as a standby reserve to meet other calls that may occur before the local firefighting equipment is free to take care of them.
(2)
Each aiding municipality or county furnishing firefighting equipment to a stricken municipality or county shall have the right to call on another participating municipality or county for firefighting equipment and personnel (to the extent specified in the agreement) as a standby reserve to take the place, in part, of the equipment furnished to the stricken municipality or county until such equipment shall be returned.
(3)
On receipt of a call under subsection (1) or (2) of this section, the aiding municipality or county called upon shall (to the extent provided in the agreement) furnish the equipment and personnel called for by the stricken municipality or county, or by the first aiding municipality or county except that each aiding municipality or county may always be permitted to retain sufficient firefighting equipment and personnel to fight any fire or to meet any emergency within its own boundaries that may reasonably be anticipated.
(Ord. of 7-14-1998, § 2)
Sec. 22-58. - Preparation of mutual fire aid program; approval.
The chiefs of the fire departments of the municipalities or counties participating in such mutual aid shall prepare a mutual aid program which shall incorporate the terms and conditions of this agreement. Such mutual aid program shall, after approval by the corporate authorities of the municipalities or counties participating, be in full force and effect and binding on such participating communities.
(Ord. of 7-14-1998, § 3)
Sec. 22-59. - Obligation of this city or county under mutual fire aid program.
The city or county shall furnish firefighting equipment and personnel for use outside its boundaries as provided in the tentative mutual fire aid program as provided for here, or in any mutual fire aid program agreed to as provided here, to any municipality or county that has agreed to conform to said program and has assumed the obligations imposed upon it by this agreement.
(Ord. of 7-14-1998, § 4)
Sec. 22-60. - Cancellation of fire protection service contract.
This fire protection service contract and mutual aid agreement is subject to the provision that the contract may be cancelled subject to the terms of the contract by the city mayor or chairman of county commissioners by sending 30 days' written notice to the other party. The fire protection service contract may be cancelled or not renewed by the other party on 30 days' written notice to the city or county.
(Ord. of 7-14-1998, § 5)
