Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Warner Robins, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1977, § 1-1001)
Charter reference— Codification of ordinances, § 2.27.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and all ordinances, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless this construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council.
City. The words "city," "the city" or "this city" are construed as if the words "of Warner Robins" followed them.
Code. Code means the document entitled "The Code of the City of Warner Robins, Georgia," as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
Council. The word "council" is construed as if the words "of Warner Robins" followed it.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" mean Houston County, Georgia.
Court. The word "court" means the municipal court of the city.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears in this Code requiring an officer or employee of the city to do some act it is to be construed to authorize such officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males, unless the context indicates otherwise.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons of officers shall be construed as giving this authority to a majority of these persons or officers, or to a quorum.
Judge or recorder. The words "judge" or "recorder" mean the judge of the municipal court of the city.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Land. "Land" and "real estate" include rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
May. The word "may" is construed as being directory and not mandatory.
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The word "must" is construed as being mandatory.
Name or title of officer, board, commission or agency. The name or title of any officer, board, commission or agency, when appearing alone herein, is construed as if the words "of Warner Robins, Georgia" followed it.
Number. The singular or plural each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The word "oath" includes affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having conscientious scruples against taking an oath. An affirmation shall have the same force and effect as an oath.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or person in possession under a bond for title.
Person. The word "person" extends and applies to associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" includes any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream, unless the context indicates otherwise.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall. "Shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians except crosswalks.
Signature, subscription. "Signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" are construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. Whenever the word "street" is used in this Code, it is construed to include a public highway, road, avenue, court, way, lane or alley; and it also includes a sidewalk or footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless this construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council.
Tenant or occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Written, in writing. "Written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1977, § 1-1002)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes, etc.; references to Code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to the chapters, articles, and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1977, § 1-1004)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1977, § 1-1007)
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. Repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of these subsequent ordinances until such time that the Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending these provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of the City of Warner Robins, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: _______." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of the City of Warner Robins, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows: _______." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1977, § 1-1008)
Sec. 1-6. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner except by ordinance or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(Code 1977, § 1-1009)
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an acting that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment in the city prison for a term not exceeding twelve (12) months or any combination thereof. With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
Reserved.
(e)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(f)
Violations of this Code which are continuous with respect to time may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(g)
A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this Code which is not also a violation of the state law shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment in a prison for a term not exceeding six (6) months, or any combination thereof. With respect to any such violations of this code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(Code 1977, § 1-1005; Ord. No. 28-91, § 1, 5-3-91; Ord. No. 61-07, §§ 1, 2, 12-17-07; Ord. No. 52-10, § 1, 12-20-10)
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, this unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, the intention being that they would have been enacted without the incorporation in this Code of the unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1977, § 1-1003)
Sec. 1-9. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or allowing any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance of the city in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Provisions as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as ordinance provisions previously adopted by the city relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-11. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any ordinance:
(1)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money;
(2)
Authorizing the issuance of bonds or any evidence of indebtedness;
(3)
Authorizing or approving a contract;
(4)
Granting a franchise;
(5)
Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving or widening any street or public way;
(6)
Establishing or altering the grades of any street;
(7)
Approving a budget;
(8)
Levying or imposing taxes that are not codified in this Code;
(9)
Establishing salaries or other benefits for officers or employees of the city;
(10)
Dealing with special assessments;
(11)
Annexing property into the city;
(12)
Dealing with subdivisions, zoning and/or development;
(13)
Whose purpose has been accomplished;
(14)
Which is special although permanent in effect;
(15)
Which is temporary although general in effect.
