ARTICLE VII. - UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL CONDUITS

Sec. 24-311. - Regulations generally; compliance required.
All persons to whom permission may hereafter be granted for renewing or laying underground conduits, tubes or pipes for electrical conductors, cables or wires, shall conform to the following requirements:
(1)
No street, alley, lane or road in this city shall be broken or occupied by any corporation, firm or person for the purpose of laying down conduits, tubes or pipes for electrical conductors, cables or wires, except by written permission of the mayor and council.
(2)
During the construction or laying down of the underground conduits, tubes or pipes, conductors, cables or wires, no street, alley or road shall be opened or the pavement broken for a greater distance than five hundred (500) feet, shall not be kept open for a longer period than ten (10) days, and this opening shall not be of a greater width than four (4) feet.
(3)
As the work progresses the pavement shall be properly relaid and the street, alley, lane or road put in good condition.
(Code 1977, § 9-1071)
Sec. 24-312. - Permit required; application plans and specifications; failure to obtain permit; inspections.
(a)
Prior to making any opening in any street, lane, alley or road for the laying of conduits, tubes or pipes for electrical conductors, cables or wires, the person desiring to lay them shall make application to the mayor and council in writing, and shall file plans and specifications showing the location, the route and the length of the proposed conduit, pipes and tubes. If the mayor and council is satisfied, a permit shall be issued authorizing the work to be done.
(b)
The opening of the lane, street, alley or road without a permit having been first obtained shall forfeit the right of any person to use or occupy the street, lane, alley or road.
(c)
The work of laying any underground conduits, tubes, pipes, electrical conductors, cables and wires shall be under the direction and approval of the electrical inspector, who shall at all times have free and unobstructed access to the conduits, tubes, pipes, electrical conductors or cables, for the purpose of inspecting them.
(Code 1977, § 9-1072)
Sec. 24-313. - Liability for damages.
All persons occupying any street, lane, alley or road with underground conduits, tubes, pipes, cables, electrical conductors or wires, shall be liable for all damages to gas and water main service and sewer connections, and also liable for any damage caused by the openings of trenches or the defective condition of streets, alleys, lanes or roads, resulting from this laying of conduits, tubes, pipes, electrical conductors, cables or wires, for which damage the city might otherwise be held liable.
(Code 1977, § 9-1073)
Sec. 24-314. - Fee duct to be furnished for municipal purposes.
Any person placing conduits under these provisions shall furnish to the city on demand one (1) duct for municipal purposes free, provided no electric light or power wire shall be used in telephone or telegraph conduits.
(Code 1977, § 9-1074)
Sec. 24-315. - City's permission required for consolidation, etc.
Should any company, corporation, firm or individual to which or to whom the privileges under this article have heretofore been, or shall hereafter be, granted as to the laying of underground wires, electrical conductors, cables or tubes, dispose of any of the franchises granted by the city, or lease to, consolidate or merge with any other company, corporation, firm or individual, without first obtaining permission of the mayor and council to so lease, consolidate or merge, this person, firm or corporation shall forfeit all rights and privileges granted by this city and upon satisfactory proof being furnished to the mayor and council, they shall take such action as well as carry the provisions of this section into effect.
(Code 1977, § 9-1075)
Secs. 24-316—24-320. - Reserved.
