ARTICLE VI. - UNDERGROUND UTILITY DAMAGE PREVENTION

Sec. 24-286. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Damage includes the substantial weakening of structural or lateral support of an underground utility, penetration or destruction of any protective coating, housing or other protective device of an underground utility, and the partial or complete severance of an underground utility.
Demolish or demolition means any operation by which a structure or mass of material is wrecked, razed, rendered, moved or removed by means of any tools, equipment, or discharge of explosives.
Excavate or excavation means an operation for the purpose of the movement or removal of earth, rock, or other materials in or on the ground by use of mechanized equipment or by discharge of explosives, and including augering, backfilling, digging, ditching, drilling, grading, plowing-in, ripping, scraping, trenching and tunneling, but not including the tilling of soil for agricultural purposes.
Mechanized equipment means equipment operated by means of mechanical power including trenchers, bulldozers, power shovels, augers, backhoes, scrapers, drills, cable and pipe plows and other equipment used for plowing-in or pulling-in cable or pipe.
Person means any individual; any corporation, partnership, association, or any other entity organized under the laws of any state; any state; any subdivision or instrumentality of a state; and any employee, agent, or legal representative thereof.
Utility means any line, system or facility used for producing, storing, conveying, transmitting, or distributing communication, electricity, gas, petroleum, petroleum products, hazardous liquids, water, steam or sewage.
Operator means any person who owns or operates a utility.
Working day means every day, except Saturday, Sunday, and national and legal state holidays.
(Code 1977, § 5-1007(b))
Sec. 24-287. - Excavation and demolition permits.
A permit issued pursuant to law authorizing excavation or demolition operations shall not be deemed to relieve a person from the responsibility for complying with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1977, § 5-1007(c))
Sec. 24-288. - Prohibition.
Except as provided in section 24-290, no person may excavate in a street, highway, public space, a private easement of an operator, or near the location of a utility installed on the premises of a customer served by such utility, or demolish a building without having first ascertained in the manner prescribed in sections 24-291 and 24-292 the location of all underground utilities in the area that would be affected by the proposed excavation or demolition.
(Code 1977, § 5-1007(d))
Sec. 24-289. - Filing requirements of utility operators.
(a)
Each operator having underground utilities in this city or in areas served by utilities of this city shall file with the city clerk a list containing the name of every city, village, township, and section within the township in the county in which it has underground utilities (including those utilities that have been abandoned in place by the operator but not yet physically removed), the name of the operator and the name, title, address and telephone number of its representative designated to receive the written or telephonic notice of intent required by section 24-290.
(b)
Changes in any of the information contained in the list filed under subparagraph (e)(1) shall be filed by the operator with the city clerk within five (5) working days of the change.
(Code 1977, § 5-1007(e))
Sec. 24-290. - Notice of intent to excavate or demolish.
(a)
Except as provided in section 24-292, before commencing any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 24-288, each person responsible for such excavation or demolition shall serve written or telephonic notice of intent to excavate or demolish at least three (3), but not more than ten (10), full working days, such notice to be served upon each operator which has filed a list required by section 24-289 indicating that it has underground utilities located in the proposed area of excavation or demolition.
(b)
The written or telephonic notice required by subsection (a) of this section must contain the name, address, and telephone number of the person filing the notice of intent, and, if different, the person responsible for the excavation or demolition, the starting date, anticipated duration, and type of excavation or demolition operation to be conducted, the location of the proposed excavation or demolition, and whether or not explosives are to be used.
(c)
If the notification required by subsection (a) is made by telephone, an adequate record of such notification shall be maintained by the operators notified to document compliance with the requirements of this article.
(Code 1977, § 5-1007(f))
Sec. 24-291. - Response to notice of intent to excavate or demolish.
(a)
Each operator or designated representative notified in accordance with section 24-290 shall, not less than two (2) working days in advance of the proposed excavation or demolition (unless a shorter period is provided by agreement between the person responsible for the excavation or demolition and the operator or designated representative), supply, by use of maps when appropriate, the following information to the person responsible for the excavation or demolition:
(1)
The approximate location and description of all of its underground utilities which may be damaged as a result of the excavation or demolition;
(2)
The location and description of all utility markers indicating the approximate location of the underground utilities; and
(3)
Any other information that would assist that person in locating and thereby avoiding damage to the underground utilities including, providing adequate temporary markings indicating the approximate location of the underground utility in locations where permanent utility markers do not exist.
(b)
For the purposes of this paragraph the approximate location of underground utilities is defined as a strip of land at least three (3) feet wide but not wider than the width of the utility plus one and one-half (1½) feet on either side of the utility.
(Code 1977, § 5-1007(g))
Sec. 24-292. - Emergency excavation or demolition.
Compliance with the notice requirements of section 24-290 shall not be required of persons responsible for emergency excavation or demolition to protect against or to eliminate an imminent danger to life, health, or property; provided, however, that such persons give, as soon as practicable, oral notice of the emergency excavation or demolition to each operator having underground utilities located in the area where such excavation or demolition is to be performed and request emergency assistance from each operator so identified in locating and providing immediate protection to its underground utilities. An imminent danger to life, health, or property exists whenever there is a substantial likelihood that loss of life, health, or property will result before the procedures under sections 24-290 and 24-291 can be fully complied with.
(Code 1977, § 5-1007(h))
Sec. 24-293. - Precautions to avoid damage.
In addition to the notification requirements of section 24-290, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation as designated in section 24-288 shall:
(1)
Plan the excavation or demolition to avoid damage to or minimize interference with underground utilities in and near the construction area;
(2)
Maintain a clearance between an underground utility and the cutting edge or point of any mechanized equipment, taking into account the known limit of control of such cutting edge or point, as may be reasonably necessary to avoid damage to such utility; and
(3)
Provide such support for underground utilities in and near the construction area, including during backfill operations, as may be reasonably necessary for the protection of such utilities.
(Code 1977, § 5-1007(i))
Sec. 24-294. - Excavation or demolition damage.
(a)
Except as provided by subsection (b) of this section, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in section 24-288 that results in any damage to an underground utility shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the operator of such utility of the location and nature of the damage and shall allow the operator reasonable time to accomplish necessary repairs before completing the excavation or demolition in the immediate area of such utility.
(b)
Each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operations designated in section 24-288 that results in damage to an underground utility permitting the escape of any flammable, toxic, or corrosive gas or liquid shall, immediately upon discovery of such damage, notify the operator, police and fire departments, and take any other action as may be reasonably necessary, to protect persons and property and to minimize the hazards until arrival of the operator's personnel or police or fire departments.
(Code 1977, § 5-1007(j))
Secs. 24-295—24-310. - Reserved.
