ARTICLE III. - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Personnel, ch. 58.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-161—2-175. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WORKERS' COMPENSATION[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Workers' compensation, O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-176. - Certain county officials covered; generally.
Certain elected officials of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their elected duties, the board of commissioners, sheriff, probate judge, clerk of court, magistrate judge, tax commissioner, and coroner shall be covered under the state workers' compensation laws.
(Res. of 12-3-87, § 1)
Sec. 2-177. - Volunteer firefighters covered while on duty.
Volunteer firefighters of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their duties, they shall be covered under the workers' compensation laws of the state. Such coverage shall only extend to volunteer firefighting services rendered to the county.
(Res. of 7-3-90, § 1)
Sec. 2-178. - Law enforcement personnel covered on duty.
Volunteer county law enforcement personnel who are certified by the state peace officers standards and training council shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their duties, they shall be covered under the workers' compensation laws of the state.
(Res. of 7-3-90, § 2)
Sec. 2-179. - Volunteer rescue workers covered on duty.
Volunteer members or workers of an emergency management or civil defense organization, emergency medical service, or rescue organization, of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their duties, they shall be covered under the state workers' compensation laws. Such coverage shall extend only to such volunteer services as are rendered and which are not prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-36.
(Res. of 7-3-90, § 3)
Sec. 2-180. - Medical first responders covered on duty.
Any person certified by the department of human resources of the composite state board of medical examiners and registered with any county or municipality of this state as a medical first responder of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their duties, they shall be covered under the state workers' compensation laws.
(Res. of 7-3-90, § 4)
Secs. 2-181—2-200. - Reserved.
