PART V. - AMENDMENTS AND LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE XVIII. - ADOPTION, AMENDMENTS AND APPEALS

Sec. A. - Adoption of subdivision regulations.
Before the mayor and council adopt this ordinance or an amendment to it, the city shall hold a public hearing thereon, at least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of which shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
Sec. B. - Amendment of the subdivision regulations.
The subdivision regulations may be amended from time to time by the mayor and council, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall have first been submitted to the planning and zoning board for review and recommendation. The planning and zoning board shall have thirty (30) days within which to submit its report. If the planning and zoning board fails to submit a report within the 30-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the proposed amendment.
ARTICLE XIX. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. A. - Conflict with other laws.
Whenever the regulations of this ordinance impose more restrictive standards than are required under any other statute, the requirements of this ordinance shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards than are required by this ordinance, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
Sec. B. - Separability.
Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. C. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
Sec. D. - Violations and penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation or other legal entity violating any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
The city or any owner of real estate who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action in proceeding to stop the violation.
Sec. E. - Effective date.
This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the date of its adoption, the public welfare demanding it.
So ordained this 1st day of October, 2001.
      MAYOR AND COUNCIL FOR THE CITY OF PALMETTO
EXPAND
_____
/s/ J. Clark Boddie
Mayor
  (SEAL)
Attest:
EXPAND
_____
/s/ William H. Shell
City Clerk
