Chapter 3 - ALARM SYSTEMS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Business license taxes and fees, § 12-26 et seq.; false alarms, § 14-112.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; false alarms, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-26 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 3-1—3-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BURGLAR OR SECURITY ALARMS

Sec. 3-26. - Permit required.
(a)
Prior to the activation of an electronic burglar or security system connected directly to the police department, application shall be made to the city police department on a form designated by them. The chief of police, or designee, shall have the right to inspect the design and installation of any proposed system and reject those which appear to be poorly conceived or constructed. Such inspection shall not be construed to be approval in lieu of inspection by the city for compliance with construction standards nor will such inspection give rise to future liability in the event of malfunction.
(b)
The application shall contain the names of not less than two (2) persons who have knowledge of the security system and the ability to reset the system and secure the building in the event of alarm. The person in possession of the building in or on which the security system is installed shall be responsible for notifying the police department of any changes in the identity of any person who may be contacted in the event of false or actual alarm.
Sec. 3-27. - Activation of alarm.
No burglar or security alarm system connected directly to the police department shall be activated except in response to criminal activity unless authorized previously by the police department. Malfunctions in the system, error or mistake in the system, or intentional misuse shall subject the operator, tenant or owner in possession, or others responsible, to a fine in the municipal court as follows:
(1)
A twenty-five-dollar fine shall be levied on any person responsible for two (2) alarm errors, malfunctions, or intentional misuses or other false alarms within the previous twelve (12) months. After the second false alarm, the city shall notify those responsible for the premises, as listed in the permit application, that a third false alarm will result in a fine.
(2)
After the third false alarm, any subsequent false alarms may result in the revocation of the premises burglar and security alarm permit resulting in an order to remove the system.
(3)
Notwithstanding the above, the final determination regarding the issuance of a fine under this article shall be made by the mayor who may take into consideration such mitigating factors as acts of God, city-wide power failure or fluctuations, and other such factors.
Sec. 3-28. - Refusal of key holder to respond.
When a false alarm has resulted in a response by units of the police department, the owner or tenant in possession shall be summoned to respond to the premises to reset the system and/or secure the building. Failure of such person to respond will result in the police units leaving the premises until the system is repaired, reset or the building secured, as appropriate. No liability will attach to the city due to such action arising as a result of the owner, or tenant in possession to respond when summoned to a false alarm. Neither shall the city be liable if the owner, or tenant in possession fail to notify the police department of any change in the identity of the responsible person who shall be contacted in the event of false or actual alarm. Applicants of a permit for the installation and operation of a burglar or security alarm system shall furnish, at the time the application is submitted, a hold harmless agreement agreeing that no such liability will attach, provided that the conditions of all ordinances are met by the police department.
Sec. 3-29. - Automatic dialers.
It shall be unlawful to key automatic dialer burglar alarm systems to the police department. These type of alarms shall be keyed to a private service that will then notify the police department.
