Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Power to regulate and license businesses, § 27.1 et seq.
Cross reference— Business license taxes and fees, § 12-26 et seq.; public drunkenness, § 14-49.
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter definitions shall be the same as those utilized and contained within O.C.G.A. tit. 3 [§ 3-1-1 et seq.], except as may be contained and defined elsewhere in this chapter.
(Code 1977, § 3-1)
State Law reference— Definitions generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 4-2. - Purpose.
This chapter has been enacted in accordance with a plan designed for the purpose, among others, of promoting the health and general welfare of the city, to establish reasonable controls and ascertainable standards for the regulation and control of the licensing and sales of alcoholic beverages, to protect schools and churches, to give effect to existing land use and to preserve and protect existing residential areas, with reasonable considerations among others, to the character of the areas, and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, the congestion of the roads and streets, and with a general view of promoting desirable living conditions and sustaining neighborhood and property values, and protect against the concentration of the retail outlets for spirituous liquors in one (1) family or to prevent undesirable persons from controlling the retail liquor industry.
(Code 1977, § 3-2)
Sec. 4-3. - Compliance with chapter required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at wholesale or retail any alcoholic beverage without having first complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1977, § 3-3)
Sec. 4-4. - Employees; eligibility, fingerprinting, etc.
(a)
No person shall be employed by any establishment holding any license under this chapter until such person has been fingerprinted by the police department and has been issued a certificate of eligibility for employment by the police department.
(b)
All persons subject to the provisions of this section shall, within seventy-two (72) hours after the date of their first work in an establishment licensed under this chapter, report to the police department for purposes of fingerprinting.
(c)
All persons reporting to the police department may be required to fill out a personal history statement for the purpose of an investigation into their eligibility for employment.
(d)
The police department shall make a search relative to the police record of the person fingerprinted. The commission of a felony, and the conviction thereof, shall act as a complete bar to employment in an establishment licensed under this chapter. The conviction of misdemeanors, of any type, shall likewise act as a bar if the same shall occur within a five (5) year period next preceding the date of employment and are of either such numbers or types as to indicate that the individual has a bad reputation. Minor traffic violations are excepted and the conviction of one (1) single misdemeanor during a five-year period shall not act as a bar to employment.
(e)
The police department shall either issue the certificate or shall issue a letter both to the licensee and to the individual stating the reasons such certificate cannot be issued.
(f)
The licensee may appeal an adverse finding of the police department to the municipal court.
(g)
The police department may, from time to time, and as additional information becomes available, review any certificates issued under this section and may as circumstances dictate, withdraw and/or suspend certificates for cause. Adverse findings may be appealed to the recorder's court in accordance with subsection (f) above.
(h)
Owners of five (5) percent or more of any business licensed under this chapter are not required to have a certificate provided they are listed on the application for such license.
(i)
The licensee shall pay an investigation fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each investigation.
(Code 1977, § 3-50)
Sec. 4-5. - List of owners and employees.
It shall be the duty of all persons holding any license under this chapter to keep a current list of all persons having a five (5) percent or more beneficial interest in any business so licensed, and of all employees, on file at the police station. Such list shall show the full name, home address, telephone number, age, and place of employment. Such list shall be checked and updated as necessary, but at least annually.
(Code 1977, § 3-51)
Sec. 4-6. - Offenses concerning minors.
(a)
Except as otherwise authorized by law:
(1)
No person knowingly, directly or through another person, shall furnish, cause to be furnished, or permit any person in such person's employ to furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age;
(2)
No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall purchase or knowingly possess any alcoholic beverage;
(3)
No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall misrepresent such person's age in any manner whatever for the purpose of obtaining illegally any alcoholic beverage;
(4)
No person knowingly or intentionally shall act as an agent to purchase or acquire any alcoholic beverage for or on behalf of a person under twenty-one (21) years of age;
(5)
No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall misrepresent his identity or use any false identification for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining any alcoholic beverage.
(b)
The prohibitions contained in paragraphs (1), (2), and (4) of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply with respect to the sale, purchase, or possession of alcoholic beverages for consumption:
(1)
For medical purposes pursuant to a prescription of a physician duly authorized to practice medicine in this state; or
(2)
At a religious ceremony.
(c)
The prohibitions contained in paragraphs (1), (2), and (4) of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply with respect to the possession of alcoholic beverages for consumption by a person under twenty-one (21) years of age when the parent or guardian of the person under twenty-one (21) years of age gives the alcoholic beverage to the person and when possession is in the home of the parent or guardian and such parent or guardian is present.
(d)
The prohibition contained in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply with respect to the sale of alcoholic beverages by a person when such person has been furnished with proper identification showing that the person to whom the alcoholic beverage is sold is twenty-one (21) years of age or older. For purposes of this subsection, the term "proper identification" means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person, such person's photograph, or both, and giving such person's date of birth and includes, without being limited to, a passport, military identification card, driver's license, or an identification card authorized under O.C.G.A. §§ 40-5-100 through 40-5-104. "Proper identification" shall not include a birth certificate.
(e)
If such conduct is not otherwise prohibited pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24, nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit any person under twenty-one (21) years of age from:
(1)
Dispensing, serving, selling, or handling alcoholic beverages as a part of employment in any licensed establishment;
(2)
Being employed in any establishment in which alcoholic beverages are distilled or manufactured;
(3)
Taking orders for and having possession of alcoholic beverages as a part of employment in a licensed establishment.
(f)
Testimony by any person under twenty-one (21) years of age, when given in an administrative or judicial proceeding against another person for violation of any provision of this section, shall not be used in any administrative or judicial proceedings brought against such testifying person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
(g)
In any case where a reasonable or prudent person could reasonably be in doubt as to whether or not the person to whom an alcoholic beverage is to be sold or otherwise furnished is actually twenty-one (21) years of age or older, it shall be the duty of the person selling or otherwise furnishing such alcoholic beverage to request to see and to be furnished with proper identification as provided for in subsection (d) of this section in order to verify the age of such person; and the failure to make such request and verification in any case where the person to whom the alcoholic beverage is sold or otherwise furnished is less than twenty-one (21) years of age may be considered by the trier of fact in determining whether the person selling or otherwise furnishing such alcoholic beverage did so knowingly.
(Code 1977, §§ 3-52—3-54; Ord. No. 88-11, § 144, 12-5-88)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
Secs. 4-7—4-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MANUFACTURERS, WHOLESALERS AND OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION DEALERS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Local regulation of package sales, manufacture, etc., of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-49.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-31. - Scope.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, this article applies to the following:
(1)
The sale of alcoholic beverages at retail for off-premises consumption;
(2)
The sale of alcoholic beverages at wholesale.
Sec. 4-32. - Excise tax—Distilled spirits, wine.
(a)
There is levied an excise tax of twenty-two cents ($0.22) per liter on the retail sale of distilled spirits. There is levied an excise tax of twenty-two cents ($0.22) per liter on the retail sale of wine.
(b)
The taxes levied by this section shall be paid to the city administrator on the second Monday of each month for the preceding month.
(Code 1977, § 3-5; Ord. No. 86-7, 12-30-86)
State Law reference— Local tax on distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-80; local tax on sale of wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.
Sec. 4-33. - Same—Malt beverages.
All persons doing business of selling malt beverages within the city shall be subject to taxes at a rate of:
(1)
0.4167 of a cent per ounce. Fractional parts of cases shall be computed proportionately.
(2)
All malt beverages which are sold in or from a barrel, keg, drum or other bulk container the excise tax shall be based, computed and collected at the rate of 0.3024 of a cent per ounce.
(Code 1977, § 3-6)
State Law reference— Local tax on sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80.
Sec. 4-34. - Delivery of beverage beyond premises.
It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this article to deliver any alcoholic beverages beyond the boundaries of the premises covered by his license. This section does not apply to a manufacturer or a wholesaler.
(Code 1977, § 3-55)
Sec. 4-35. - Package store building and grounds.
(a)
New construction shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the existing ordinances of the city governing new construction.
(b)
Old construction shall be brought up to standards of new construction as nearly as practical.
(c)
The building for a package store for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the container shall have a minimum of one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor space and, in addition, those stores licensed for the sale of spirituous liquor shall have a minimum of one thousand (1,000) square feet of paved parking areas which shall be within the limits described within section 4-65(3).
(d)
The building shall be equipped with a burglar alarm system.
(e)
The building shall be primarily of brick, masonry and steel construction.
(f)
The building and grounds shall be regularly cleaned and no deposit of litter and/or trash shall be allowed to accumulate.
(Code 1977, § 3-62; Ord. No. 80-3, 4-7-80)
Sec. 4-36. - View of entrance and interior of package store.
(a)
The front entrance of any retail package store shall be clearly visible from the public street.
(b)
No screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be installed so as to prevent a clear view into the interior of any retail package store.
(c)
Each store shall be so lighted so that the interior of the store is visible day and night.
(Code 1977, § 3-56)
Sec. 4-37. - Advertising—Lighted electric signs.
No lighted electric advertising signs shall be placed external to the building in which the licensee under this article has his place of business. All advertising signs shall be turned off during the hours that the place of business is not open for retail sale.
(Code 1977, § 3-57)
Sec. 4-38. - Same—Exterior signs.
No sign of any kind, painted or electrical, shall be permitted on the exterior of any licensed premises. No placard of any kind which is visible from the street shall make reference to the price of any alcoholic beverage sold therein. However, nothing in this section shall prevent any retailer from erecting one (1) external sign, no larger than four (4) by eight (8) feet, for the identification of his business under this article and the product sold therein. Such single sign may be of either the painted or electric type, of sound construction, and mounted no more than twelve (12) feet above the ground. Such single sign is to be extinguished whenever the retail store is not in operation.
(Code 1977, § 3-58)
Sec. 4-39. - Same—Publicizing.
No licensee under this article shall advertise, or in any manner publicize, either alcoholic beverages or the presence or location of a place of business within which such beverages are sold.
Nothing herein, however, shall preclude such licensee from identifying his place of business as provided in section 4-38.
(Code 1977, § 3-59)
Sec. 4-40. - Prices to be displayed.
Each licensee under this article shall either mark each container of alcoholic beverages with the price thereof or shall have the price placed on the bottom of the shelf where the containers are exhibited for sale or shall otherwise clearly post the retail price of each container offered for sale.
(Code 1977, § 3-60)
State Law reference— Displaying of prices outside licensed premises prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-26.
Sec. 4-41. - Sanitation regulations; immoral conduct, etc.
(a)
All premises licensed under this article shall be kept clean and in proper sanitary condition.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to permit and/or encourage any disturbance of the peace or obscenity or lewd, immoral conduct or practices on the premises.
(Code 1977, § 3-61)
Sec. 4-42. - Pinball and similar machines.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person which has been issued and maintains a valid license under this article to own, maintain or operate on the premises for which the license is issued any machine having a slot for the insertion of a coin so as to operate the same for chance, skill or for entertainment and/or amusement purposes.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit mechanical music machines or like machines, nor machines owned and operated exclusively for the sale of merchandise where neither the element of chance or skill is involved, nor machines owned by an individual and maintained in his private residence for private use.
(Ord. No. 80-7, § 3-62, 9-8-80)
Sec. 4-43. - Sale on election days.
Any licensee under this article shall be permitted to sell alcoholic beverages on any election days as permitted on any other day.
(Ord. No. 86-6, § 3-8, 11-3-86)
State Law reference— Authority to so provide, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 4-44. - Sunday sales.
Package sales of distilled spirits, malt beverages and wine shall be permitted on Sundays between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.
(Ord. No. 2013-07, § 1, 12-2-2013)
Secs. 4-45—4-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local licenses, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-3-2, 3-5-42, 3-6-40.

Sec. 4-61. - Required for manufacture or sale.
No alcoholic beverages shall be manufactured for sale, sold at wholesale or retail for off-premises consumption, in the original package or otherwise, except under a license granted by the city.
(Code 1977, § 3-20)
Sec. 4-62. - Application form, content.
(a)
All persons desiring to obtain a license required under this division shall make written application to the city for such privilege upon forms to be prepared and approved by the governing body. Such application shall state:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant;
(2)
The place where the proposed business is to be located;
(3)
The nature and character of the business to be carried on;
(4)
If a partnership the names of the partners;
(5)
If a corporation the names of the officers and of all persons holding more than a five (5) percent interest therein;
(6)
A certificate from the applicant that the information contained therein is true and correct; and
(7)
Such other information as may be required by the governing body.
(b)
All applications shall have attached thereto a certificate from a registered surveyor showing a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises and the straight line distance from the proposed premises to the building and to the property line of the nearest church, school, residence, and commercial establishment.
(c)
Applicants agree, by filing an application, to produce for oral interrogation any person requested by the governing body or chief of police and being considered important in the ascertainment of the facts relative to the issuance of such license.
(d)
The failure to produce, attach or provide any required information, or data to any person, within thirty (30) days after request shall result in the automatic dismissal of the application.
(Code 1977, § 3-22)
State Law reference— Additional requirements for applicants, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Sec. 4-63. - Advertisement of intent to engage in business.
(a)
All applicants for a license under this division shall give notice of their intent to make such application by advertisement once each week for two (2) consecutive weeks in the newspaper of general circulation in which legal advertisements of the city are carried. Such notice shall contain a particular description of the location of the proposed business, the name of the applicant, the name of any person having a five (5) percent or greater interest in the proposed business and shall be captioned "Application for City of Palmetto Spirituous Liquor License" or a similar caption for a different license.
(b)
The advertisement shall be of type not smaller than ten (10) point capital and lower case and shall be at least a one-inch, two-column advertisement.
(c)
The second running of the advertisement shall be completed, and the advertisements in circulation, before application shall be made to the city.
(Code 1977, § 3-23)
Sec. 4-64. - Investigation of application report.
All applications required under this division shall be investigated by the police department. The police department shall have a minimum of ten (10) days, or until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body, whichever is longer, to complete their investigation. The police department will report its findings to the governing body, either in writing or orally at the meeting of the governing body. If the report is in writing it shall be filed with the police committee prior to the meeting of the governing body.
(Code 1977, § 3-24)
Sec. 4-65. - Qualifications—General.
No license required under this division shall be granted where the application, investigation by the police department, or the evidence on a hearing shows any of the following conditions to exist:
(1)
That the applicant is of bad moral character or has a bad reputation in the community, or does not have sufficient mental capacity to conduct the business for which application is made.
(2)
That the applicant has had a license issued under the police powers of a city in this state previously suspended or revoked within the ten-year period next preceding the date of application unless the applicant can show that the suspension or revocation was later lifted and the license restored by the city.
(3)
That the application for any license hereunder does not furnish evidence of adequate parking facilities available to the applicant's patrons and within two hundred (200) feet of the proposed location.
(4)
That the applicant has other interest in any business holding the same license under this division or that a member of the family of the applicant is a distributor or wholesaler of alcoholic beverages within the city.
(Code 1977, § 3-25)
Sec. 4-66. - Same—Citizenship, residence.
(a)
No license shall be granted under this division to any person who is not a citizen of the United States or a permanent resident alien, and who has not resided continuously within the state for twelve (12) months prior to the date on which the application is made.
(b)
Where the applicant is a corporation, it must be incorporated under the laws of the state, and all persons having a five (5) percent or greater interest must meet the above stated citizenship and residence requirements.
(c)
If the applicant is a partnership all partners having a five (5) percent or greater interest therein must meet the above stated citizenship and residence requirements.
(d)
Hotels, motels, motor inns and other businesses who are corporations and whose primary business is something other than the operation of a business for the sale of alcoholic beverages are exempt from the above citizenship and residence requirements.
(Code 1977, § 3-26; Ord. No. 89-02, 2-6-89)
Sec. 4-67. - Same—Prior convictions prohibited.
(a)
No original license under this division shall be issued to any person who shall have been convicted within ten (10) years immediately prior to the filing of application of any felony of any state or of the United States.
(b)
The word "person" as used above includes any individual having any beneficial interest five (5) percent or greater, either as owner, partner or stockholder, or in any beneficial manner whatever.
(c)
The term "convicted" shall include the adjudication of guilt, a plea of guilty, or the forfeiture of a bond.
(Code 1977, § 3-27)
Sec. 4-68. - Limitation on other interest and number of licenses within a family.
All applications for license, both original and renewal, must be accompanied by a full and complete statement, under oath, that no person, having a five (5) percent or greater interest in the business for which the application is made, has any other interest, greater than five (5) percent, in any other business granted the same license under this division and that no member of his family has any interest, greater than five (5) percent, in any business granted the same type license under this division and that no person, or member of his family, having a five (5) percent or greater interest in the business for which this application is made has any interest in any distributorship of alcoholic beverages doing business within the city.
(Code 1977, § 3-28)
Sec. 4-69. - Location of premises limited to designated areas.
(a)
No license shall be issued for that part of the city which shall lie in any county which shall not have legalized the sale of alcoholic beverages pursuant to law.
(b)
No license shall be issued to any person for the operation of a business except in properly zoned areas.
(c)
Existing licensed businesses, upon annexation into the city, shall be permitted to continue operation, irrespective of zoning or other location considerations.
(Code 1977, § 3-29)
Sec. 4-70. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Former § 4-70 pertained to location of premises for sale of alcoholic beverages re residences, was repealed by § 1 of Ord. No. 90-08, adopted Aug. 6, 1990, and originated from the 1977 Code, § 3-30.
Sec. 4-71. - Distance requirements.
No license shall be issued under this division for the sale of distilled spirits in or within one hundred (100) yards of any church building, within one hundred (100) yards of any alcoholic treatment center owned and operated by the state or a local government, or within two hundred (200) yards of any school building, educational building, school grounds or college campus. No license shall be issued under this division for the sale of wine or malt beverages within one hundred (100) yards of any alcoholic treatment center owned and operated by the state or a local government, or any school building, school grounds, or college campus.
(Code 1977, § 3-31; Ord. No. 90-08, § 2, 8-6-90; Ord. No. 93-06, § 1, 10-4-93)
State Law reference— Sale of alcohol near churches, schools, etc., O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Sec. 4-72. - Public hearing on application; approval.
(a)
All applications for a license under this division shall be investigated by the police department pursuant to section 4-64. The report of the police department shall be presented to the governing body pursuant to such section. The city shall then schedule a public hearing upon the application or shall, for cause, reject the application.
(b)
The public hearing shall be advertised pursuant to the ordinances of the city, and shall be held within three (3) weeks after the meeting of the governing body at which the report of the police department is received.
(c)
The governing body shall, at its next regularly scheduled meeting, act upon the application for the license.
(Code 1977, § 3-32)
Sec. 4-73. - Time limited for obtaining license.
(a)
All licenses granted under this article must be obtained and all fees paid within thirty (30) days of approval of application by the governing body.
(b)
When the license has been approved and the applicant has deposited with the city administrator the required fee the license shall be issued.
(c)
The city administrator shall issue no license under this division until it has been approved by the governing body.
(Code 1977, § 3-33)
Sec. 4-74. - Fee—Setting; minimum period; refund.
(a)
The annual license fee for licenses issued under this division shall be set at the maximum rate allowable by state law. If no rates are set by state law, the governing body shall set the rate to be paid.
(b)
If the licensee is denied a license by the state, upon proof of such refusal, he shall be entitled to a refund of the license fee paid to the city, less a charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to cover the costs of granting the license.
(c)
No license shall issue for less than a calendar year period and in the case of the revocation of the license before the end of the year there shall be no entitlement to receive any refund of any portion of any license fee.
(Code 1977, § 3-34)
State Law reference— Limitations on license fees, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-4-50, 3-5-43.
Sec. 4-75. - Same—Due date; proration.
(a)
All annual license fees under this division shall be paid in advance and on or before January first of each year.
(b)
Any new license granted hereunder during a calendar year shall require the full fee, except that the fee for a new license granted after June thirtieth in any calendar year shall be fifty (50) percent of the above-stated annual license fee.
(Code 1977, § 3-35)
Sec. 4-76. - Licenses constitute a grant or privilege.
All licenses granted under this division shall be a mere grant or privilege to carry on such business during the term of the license and subject to all the terms and conditions imposed by the city charter, and related laws, applicable provisions of the city Code, other ordinances and state and federal laws and regulations.
(Code 1977, § 3-21)
Sec. 4-77. - Transfer.
Licenses granted under this division are not transferable except:
(1)
Upon the death or disability of any person holding such license the same may be transferred to the administrator, executor, or lawful heirs of the deceased person or to a guardian, provided application to the governing body is made and approval obtained.
(2)
In a partnership a partner may sell or otherwise transfer his interest to other partners or a partner who are, at the time of the issuance of the license, a party thereto. New ownership shall not, however, be brought into the business.
(3)
In a license granted to a corporation any person holding more than five (5) percent of the stock in such corporation may purchase or otherwise acquire additional stock in such corporation. New ownership amounting to five (5) percent of the corporation shall not be brought into such corporation except by application to the governing body and approval thereof.
(4)
Upon approval of the governing body the city administrator shall, upon payment of a transfer fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00), cause the license to be transferred.
(5)
In the event the owner of any beneficial interest shall desire to sell such interest he may do so and the license may be transferred under the following conditions:
a.
The owner of the beneficial interest shall advertise in the newspaper of general circulation in which the legal advertisements of the city are carried and in accordance with section 4-63. This notice shall state that the owner intends to make application to the governing body to sell his interest to (name and address of proposed purchaser);
b.
The owner and the purchaser shall make application to the governing body upon a form to be provided by the governing body;
c.
The police department shall investigate and report upon the application pursuant to section 4-64;
d.
The governing body shall, at its meeting next following the receipt of the police department report, either allow or disallow the proposed transfer of license;
e.
Upon approval of license transfer the city administrator shall act pursuant to subsection (4) above.
(Code 1977, § 3-36)
Sec. 4-78. - Annual renewal.
All businesses holding licenses under this division shall be required to renew their licenses annually on the forms prescribed by the governing body.
(Code 1977, § 3-37)
Sec. 4-79. - Suspension and revocation generally.
(a)
All licenses granted under this division are subject to revocation and suspension by the governing body and by the municipal court.
(b)
Temporary closings and/or suspension of license for reason of public safety may be ordered by the mayor, city recorder, or chief of police. Such order shall have a duration of not more than ten (10) days and shall be issued for good cause, only.
(c)
No license issued by the city shall be suspended or revoked except for due cause as hereinafter defined, and after a hearing and upon five-day written notice to the holder of such license of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the charge or charges upon which the hearing shall be held. "Due cause" for the suspension or revocation of any license issued under this division shall consist of the violation of any law or ordinance regulating such business, or the violation of any state or federal law or the violation of any city ordinance, other than traffic ordinances, or the falsification of any application or information in the obtaining of any license, or the renewal thereof.
(d)
Whenever the state shall revoke any permit or license the city license issued under this division is automatically suspended for the period of time the state license is in revocation. It shall be necessary to hold a valid state license in order to hold a valid city license under this division.
(e)
Any material omission, or any untrue or misleading statement contained in an original, transfer or renewal application for a license issued under this division shall furnish grounds for denial thereof or sufficient grounds for revocation thereof, as the case may be.
(Code 1977, §§ 3-38—3-41)
Secs. 4-80—4-95. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION DEALERS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Local regulation of sales of distilled spirits by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-90.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-96. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Distilled spirits or spirituous liquors shall be deemed to include, but not be limited to whiskey, rum, gin, brandy, vodka, tequila and all other alcoholic beverages of a similar nature and a similar alcoholic content.
Hotel shall mean every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests whether transient, permanent or residential, and in which fifty (50) or more rooms are used for sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one (1) or more public dining rooms, with an adequate and sanitary kitchen and a seating capacity of at least forty (40), where meals are regularly served to such guests, the sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith that are in the same premises and are a part of the hotel operations. Motels meeting the qualifications set out herein for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels. Hotels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for the operation of a lounge or restaurant in their premises and the holder of such franchise shall be included in the definition of hotel hereunder.
Licensee shall mean an establishment holding a license to engage in the sale of distilled spirits or spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes or malt beverages for consumption on the premises.
Lounge shall mean a separate room connected with, a part of and adjacent to a restaurant or located in hotels and defined herein with all booths, stools and tables being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall be air conditioned and have a seating capacity of at least forty (40).
Police committee shall consist of the governing body, the chief of police, or assistant chief of police, and the city attorney.
Premises shall mean the definite closed or partitioned-in locality, whether room, shop or building, wherein alcoholic beverages are sold by the drink.
Restaurant shall mean any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place regularly served, having no sleeping accommodations. Such place shall be provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and seating capacity of at least forty (40) people, having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. At least one (1) meal per day shall be served at least six (6) days a week, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating. The serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto; provided however, at least fifty-one (51) percent of the annual gross income must be derived from the sale of such meals served for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 115, 12-5-88; Ord. No. 2010-02, § 1, 6-7-2010)
Sec. 4-97. - Scope.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, this article applies to the sale of alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption (sales by the drink).
Sec. 4-98. - Penalty for violation.
Violation of any of the provisions of this article by the holder of a license hereunder shall subject the holder of such license to revocation of the license.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 116, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-99. - Copy of article maintained on premises.
It shall be the duty of the management of the premises licensed under this article to maintain a copy of this article on such premises and to instruct each and every employee of the terms thereof.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 157, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-100. - Excise taxes.
Any licensee shall be required to pay a municipal excise tax, in addition to the required state excise tax, to the city for the sale of all alcoholic beverages by the drink in the maximum amount as allowed or required by state law.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 162, 12-5-88)
State Law reference— Excise tax, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-4-130 et seq., 3-5-80 et seq., 3-6-60.
Sec. 4-101. - Authority to purchase alcoholic beverages.
A licensee may purchase from wholesalers licensed by the city, alcoholic beverages in sizes of one-fifth of a gallon or larger containers unless a particular brand is not packaged in these size contents, then such license holder may purchase such brand in the nearest size to such containers.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 147, 12-5-88)
State Law reference— Purchases to be from licensed wholesalers, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-111.
Sec. 4-102. - Licenses serving malt liquors, vinous liquors.
Any licensee under this article shall have the right to serve malt beverages on the premises during the same hours as are permitted hereunder for the serving of spirituous liquors, wines or champagnes by the drink. Nothing hereunder is intended to repeal the hours of serving same in any other type establishment not covered under licenses permitted by this article.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 139, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-103. - Time for sales.
(a)
Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, no licensee under this article shall sell, give away or otherwise dispense spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes or malt beverages between the hours of 11:55 p.m. Saturday and 9:00 a.m. Monday and between the hours of 11:55 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on other days.
(b)
Sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall be permitted on Sundays from 12:30 p.m. until 12:00 midnight in any licensed establishment which derives at least fifty (50) percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food in all the combined retail outlets of the individual establishment where food is served and in any licensed establishment which derives at least fifty (50) percent of its total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1, 12-5-11)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1, adopted Dec. 5, 2011, repealed former § 4-103 and enacted a new section as set out herein. The former section pertained to closing hours and derived from Ord. No. 88-11, § 148, 12-5-88.
State Law reference— Sunday sales prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 4-104. - Sales on election days, Christmas Day.
Any licensee under this article shall be permitted to sell alcoholic beverages on any election days as permitted on any other day. A licensee under this article shall not permit the sale of any alcoholic beverages on Christmas Day.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 154, 12-5-88; Ord. No. 90-08, § 5, 8-6-90)
State Law reference— Sales on Sundays and election days, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 4-105. - Reuse of bottles, prohibited.
It shall be illegal for any licensee under this article to add to the contents of a bottle or to refill empty bottles or in any other manner to misrepresent the quantity, quality or brand name of any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 149, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-106. - Prices and charges to be displayed; filed with police department.
Any licensee under this article, except private clubs, shall display in prominent places the current prices of spirituous liquors, vinous liquors, champagnes or malt liquors by the drink; the amount of spirituous liquor to be served in each drink; admission and cover charges. The licensee shall file a copy of such prices with the investigating officer of the police department and shall furnish to any customer that so desires an itemized bill of charges which shall not exceed the price list furnished to the police department. Upon any increase or decrease of prices, a new list must be filed with the police department.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 150, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-107. - Drinks to be served by employees.
Drinks sold under this article shall only be served by the employees of the establishment.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 152, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-108. - No sales outside building.
It shall be unlawful for any sales to be made outside of the building, premises or place of business licensed for such sale except as permitted herein.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 153, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-109. - Employment of certain persons prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any premises in which spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes or malt beverages by the drink hereunder to employ any person in any capacity whatsoever, including performers, entertainers and musicians, who has been convicted, by this or any other state or by the United States or any other country, soliciting for prostitution, pandering, letting premises for prostitution, keeping a disorderly place, illegally dealing in narcotics, sex offenses, or any charge relating to the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors. This section shall not apply to private clubs.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 155, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-110. - Employment of minors.
No licensee under this division shall employ any minor in his establishment; provided, however, that in restaurants and hotels minors may be employed where their duties are not in any way involved with the preparation of or the sale or service of any spirituous liquors, vinous liquors, champagnes, or malt liquors by the drink; provided that this section shall not apply to private clubs, and also provided musicians and other entertainers, who are minors, may provide professional entertainment on the premises with permission of the police committee.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 156, 12-5-88)
State Law reference— Persons under 18 dispensing alcohol, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24.
Sec. 4-111. - Maximum seating capacity of lounges.
No establishment holding a license under this article as a lounge shall have a seating capacity in excess of two hundred fifty (250) persons irrespective of any other provisions of this Code.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 158, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-112. - Serving of standing customers at bars prohibited.
No licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises may serve any customer who is not seated, it being the purpose of this section to prohibit being served while standing at a bar or while standing in any area of the establishment.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 159, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-113. - Disturbances, obscenity, etc., prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to permit any disturbance of the peace of obscenity or any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practices.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 141, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-114. - Conditions of premises.
All premises licensed under this division shall be kept clean and in proper sanitary condition and in full compliance with the provisions and regulations governing the conditions of premises used for the storage and sale of food for human consumption.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 140, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-115. - Temporary or flashing signs to identify licensed premises prohibited; extinguishing lighted signs on Sundays.
No temporary sign, or mobile sign, including window signs, or flashing signs shall be permitted to identify the premises of a licensee. All lighted signs identifying such premises must be fully extinguished on Sunday, except that licensees that are permitted to sell alcohol on Sundays pursuant to subsection (b) of section 4-103 shall not be required to extinguish lighted signs during the hours described in said subsection.
(Ord. No. 2011-08, § 2, 12-5-11)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2011-08, § 1, adopted Dec. 5, 2011, repealed former § 4-115 and enacted a new section as set out herein. The former section pertained to closing hours and derived from Ord. No. 88-11, § 160, 12-5-88.
Sec. 4-116. - Nudity restricted.
(a)
Based on the experience of other urban counties and municipalities, including but not limited to Atlanta and Fulton County, Georgia; Dekalb County, Georgia; Smyrna, Georgia; and Richmond County, Georgia; which experiences we believe are relevant to the problems faced by Palmetto, we take note of the notorious and self-evident conditions attendant to the commercial exploitation of human sexuality, which do not vary greatly among general comparable communities within our country. Moreover, it is the finding of this council that public nudity (either partial or total) under certain circumstances, particularly circumstances related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in so-called "nude bars," or establishments offering so-called "nude entertainment" or "adult entertainment," begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions. Among the acts of criminal behavior identified with nudity and alcohol are disorderly conduct, prostitution, and drug trafficking and use. Among the undesirable community conditions identified with nudity and alcohol are depression of property values in the surrounding neighborhood, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burden on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior hereinabove described, and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of such establishments in particular areas. Therefore, the limitation of nude conduct in establishments licensed to sell alcohol for consumption on the premises is in the public welfare and it is a matter of governmental interest and concern to prevent the occurrence of criminal behavior and undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments which serve alcohol and also allow and/or encourage nudity. To that end, this section is hereby adopted.
(b)
The following types of entertainment, attire and conduct are prohibited upon any premises licensed to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic beverages for consumption on such premises within the city limits:
(1)
The employment or use of any person, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume, or clothing, as to expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or of any portion of the male or female pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva and genitals.
(2)
Live entertainment where any person appears in the manner described in subsection (b)(1) or where such persons (or person) perform(s) acts of, or acts which simulate any of the following:
a.
Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual act which is prohibited by law;
b.
The caressing or fondling of the breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals; and
c.
The displaying of the male or female pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals.
(3)
The holding, promotion, sponsoring or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night, event or any other activity where patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (b)(1) and (2) above; provided, however, that nothing contained in this subsection (b) shall apply to the premises of any mainstream performance house, museum or theater which derives less than twenty (20) percent of its gross annual income from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 161, 12-5-88; Ord. No. 94-01, § 1, 4-4-94)
Sec. 4-117. - Sale to incapacitated persons prohibited.
No person who holds a license to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink shall sell or give away, or permit the sale or gift to, or the procuring for, any such liquors to any person who is physically or mentally incapacitated due to the consumption of liquor.
(Ord. No. 2010-02, § 2, 6-7-2010)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-02, § 2, adopted June 7, 2010, repealed the former section and enacted a new one as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 88-11, § 142, 12-5-88.
State Law reference— Sales to intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22.
Sec. 4-118. - Minors prohibited on licensed premises unless accompanied by parent or guardian.
No person who holds a license to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink shall allow any minor to be in, frequent or loiter about the licensed premises of a lounge unless such minors are accompanied by a parent or legal guardian; provided however, that such minors shall be permitted in restaurants or private clubs without being accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. This section shall not apply to minors who are employees under the terms of this article.
(Ord. No. 2010-02, § 3, 6-7-2010)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-02, § 3, adopted June 7, 2010, repealed the former section and enacted a new one as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 88-11, § 143, 12-5-88.
State Law reference— Sales to persons under 21, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
Sec. 4-119. - Service in back rooms prohibited; exceptions.
The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption by persons in any back room or side room which is not open to general public use is prohibited, except that private parties or conventions, which have been scheduled in advance, may be served in public or private dining rooms or meeting rooms. This section shall not apply to the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption hereunder to the registered guests of any hotel or motel in their designated rooms.
(Ord. No. 2010-02, § 4, 6-7-2010)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-02, § 4, adopted June 7, 2010, repealed the former section and enacted a new one as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 88-11, § 145, 12-5-88.
Sec. 4-120. - Opened original packages on licensed premises prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except a licensee, his manager or agent in charge of licensed premises, to carry into or have in his possession on any licensed premises, any alcoholic beverages in the original package, the seal of which has been broken or the original package opened.
(Ord. No. 2010-02, § 5, 6-7-2010)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-02, § 5, adopted June 7, 2010, repealed the former section and enacted a new one as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 88-11, § 146, 12-5-88.
Sec. 4-121. - Leaving premises without payment.
Any person leaving the premises of a licensee hereunder without paying his charges shall be in violation of the law. This section shall not apply to private clubs or restaurants as defined herein.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 151, 12-5-88)
State Law reference— Theft, O.C.G.A. § 16-8-1 et seq.
Secs. 4-122—4-135. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-02, § 6, adopted June 7, 2010, changed the name of Div. 2 from Spiritous Liquor Licenses to read as herein set out.
State Law reference— Local licenses for sale of distilled spirits by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-110; licenses generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.

Sec. 4-136. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic beverages for use or consumption on the premises without a license required in this division.
(Ord. No. 2010-02, § 7, 6-7-2010)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-02, § 7, adopted June 7, 2010, repealed the former section and enacted a new one as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 88-11, § 117(a), 12-5-88.
Sec. 4-137. - Surveyor's certificate.
All original applications for new licenses shall include a certificate from a registered surveyor showing a scale drawing of the location of the proposed or existing premises and the straight line distance to the nearest private residence, church, alcoholic treatment center, school building, educational building, school grounds or college campus.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 126, 12-5-88; Ord. No. 94-02, § 1, 4-4-94)
Sec. 4-138. - Application by hotels, motels.
Hotel and motel corporations and their franchise restaurant corporations operating as contemplated by the definition of hotel are authorized to apply for and to hold a license under this division in their corporate names and shall name on such application an agent and/or manager actively employed in the operation of said hotel, motel or franchise restaurant who shall be responsible for operation under such license as is provided for in this article and who shall qualify in all respects as to character and moral fitness under the provisions of this article. Should the manager and/or agent leave the employment of the hotel or motel corporation or its franchise restaurant corporation in the city, a new agent and/or manager will be named by the license holder within ten (10) days thereafter.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 117(b), 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-139. - Privilege.
Licenses under this division shall be mere grants or privileges and the mayor and council shall have the discretion to approve or deny any application for a license to sell alcoholic beverages for use or consumption on the premises subject to the requirements of due process of law. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to grant a vested right in the renewal of a license to sell alcoholic beverages for use or consumption on the premises.
(Ord. No. 2010-02, § 8, 6-7-2010)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-02, § 8, adopted June 7, 2010, repealed the former section and enacted a new one as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 88-11, § 118, 12-5-88.
Sec. 4-140. - Renewal of license.
All licensees under this division shall be required to renew their licenses annually on forms prescribed by the governing body.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 119, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-141. - Factors considered in issuing.
In determining whether or not any license applied for under this division shall be granted, the following shall be considered in the public interest and welfare:
(1)
If applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquors, whether or not he has violated any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business.
(2)
If applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquors, the manner in which he conducted the business thereunder as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance relating to such business.
(3)
The location for which the license is sought as to traffic congestion, general character of the neighborhood, and the effect such an establishment would have on the adjacent and surrounding property values. When the number of alcoholic beverage-to-be-consumed licenses issued and in effect shall number more than one (1) for each five hundred (500) persons residing in the city, no further licenses of such nature shall be permitted. If a licensee shall go out of business and the number of such licenses in effect shall exceed one (1) for each five hundred (500) persons residing in the city, such license may not continue.
(4)
The number of licenses already granted for similar businesses in the trading area of the place for which the license is sought.
(5)
If dancing is to be permitted upon the premises for which the license is sought, and applicant has previously permitted dancing upon any premises controlled or supervised by him, the manner in which he controlled or supervised such dancing to prevent any violation of law, regulation or ordinance.
(6)
Whether a licensee has had a license, issued under the police powers of the city, suspended or revoked.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 120, 12-5-88; Ord. No. 2010-02, § 9, 6-7-2010)
Sec. 4-142. - Conviction for felony or misdemeanor.
No original license shall be issued to any person organized for pecuniary gain where any individual having an interest either as owner, partner, principal stockholder, directly or indirectly beneficial or absolute, or his spouse, shall have been convicted or shall have taken a plea of nolo contendere within ten (10) years immediately prior to the filing of the application for any felony or misdemeanor of any state or of the United States or for any municipal ordinance except traffic violations. The term "conviction" shall include an adjudication of guilt or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime. Where the violation is for a misdemeanor, resulting in a forfeiture of a bond required by a municipal ordinance, the police committee may, after investigation, waive same as a disqualification.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 121, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-143. - Required citizenship.
No license under this division shall be granted to any applicant who is not a citizen of the United States or a permanent resident alien. If the applicant is a partnership, the requirements of this section shall apply to all the partners.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 122, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-144. - Wholesalers holding licenses prohibited.
No person shall hold a license under this division who also has any direct financial interest in any wholesale liquor business. No financial aid or assistance to any licensee hereunder from any wholesaler or manufacturer of intoxicating liquors shall be permitted; provided, however, that this section shall not be applicable to private clubs.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 131, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-145. - City officials holding license prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any elected or full-time appointed official of the city, or his spouse or minor children, to hold any license under this division.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 130, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-146. - Eligibility.
No license shall be issued under this division to any applicant whose establishment does not meet the requirements of a restaurant, hotel, or lounge.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 123, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-147. - Distance from private residence, church, etc.
No license shall be issued to any location which is within two hundred (200) feet of any private residence on the same street, or within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any private residence in any direction other than on the same street. No license shall be issued to any location which is within one hundred (100) yards of any church building, or any alcoholic treatment center owned and operated by the state or a local government, or within two hundred (200) yards of any school building, educational building, school grounds or college campus. Such distance for the purpose of this section shall be measured in all directions from the nearest wall enclosing the proposed premises where alcoholic beverages are sold to the nearest point of such residence, church, alcoholic treatment center, school, educational building, school grounds, or college campus. A "private residence" for the purpose of this section, is defined as a house or dwelling where not less than one (1) nor more than two (2) families reside, or a boarding or rooming house where there are five (5) or more boarders or roomers.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 127, 12-5-88; Ord. No. 90-08, § 4, 8-6-90; Ord. No. 93-06, § 2, 10-4-93; Ord. No. 94-02, § 1, 4-4-94)
State Law reference— "Private club" defined, O.C.G.A. § 3-7-1.
Sec. 4-148. - Compliance with zoning regulations.
No license shall be issued under this division unless the location is located in the C-2 and C-3 zoning districts pursuant to the provisions of the zoning ordinance of the city.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 137, 12-5-88)
Cross reference— Zoning, app. B.
Sec. 4-149. - Compliance with fire regulations.
Where minimum sleeping or seating capacity is prescribed in this article, the same shall be judged by reasonable standards. The fire department shall, upon request of the police committee, inspect such premises and report their finding to the committee. All premises licensed hereunder shall conform at all times with all fire regulations of the city.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 138, 12-5-88)
Cross reference— Fire prevention code, § 9-1.
Sec. 4-150. - Time limit on obtaining license and paying fees after approval.
All licenses must be obtained and fees paid not later than four (4) weeks from the date of the approval of the application by the governing body. If not so obtained, the license shall be void.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 128, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-151. - Fee.
An annual fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be charged for the license to sell distilled spirits, spirituous liquors, wines, champagnes or malt beverages or any combination of them for consumption on the premise except that private clubs licensed to sell such beverages shall be charged as set forth herein. A beer and wine only license fee shall be two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) annually. All license fees hereunder shall be paid in advance on or before January 1 of each year and any license granted hereunder during a calendar year shall pay the full license fee without proration, except that the fee for a new license granted after June thirtieth in any calendar year shall be fifty (50) percent of the above stated annual license fee for the remainder of that calendar year.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 124, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-152. - Issued for calendar year.
No license shall issue for less than a calendar year period, or the remainder thereof, and in case of the revocation or surrender of such license before the expiration of such calendar year period, the holder thereof shall not be entitled to receive any refund whatsoever.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 125, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-153. - Nontransferable; application to decedent's estate and partnerships.
(a)
Licenses under this division shall not be transferable, except as otherwise provided herein. In case of death of any person holding such a license, or any interest herein, the same may, in the discretion of the governing body, be transferred to the administrator, executor or the lawful heirs of the deceased person.
(b)
Nothing in this section, however, shall prohibit one (1) or more of the partners in a partnership holding a license to withdraw from the partnership in favor of one (1) or more of the partners who were partners at the time of the issuance of the license. Such a withdrawal shall not, however, serve to bring any new ownership into the partnership.
(c)
A licensee may take in partners or additional stockholders where it is determined that the additional capital furnished is to be used exclusively for additional inventory or expanding the facilities of the business or for building new facilities and where it appears that the licensee himself received directly none of the additional capital invested. Under this section an additional partner or new principal stockholder must be approved by the police committee.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 132, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-154. - Business to be opened within six months of receiving license.
All holders of licenses under this division must within a six-month period, after the issuance of the license, open for business the establishment referred to in the license and begin the sale of the produce or products authorized by the license. Failure to open the establishment and begin the sale as referred to above within the six-month period shall serve as automatic forfeiture and cancellation of the unused license and no refund of license fees shall be made to the license holder.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 133, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-155. - Discontinuation of operation for six months automatic forfeiture.
Any holder of a license under this division who shall begin the operation of the business and sale of the product or products as authorized in the license, but who shall, for a period of six (6) consecutive months thereafter, cease to operate the business and sale of the product or products authorized in the license, shall upon completion of the six-month period automatically forfeit his license, which license shall, by virtue of the failure to operate, be cancelled without the necessity of any further action by the governing body.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 134, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-156. - Forms; data requested.
The police committee shall have authority to prescribe forms for new or renewal applications under this division. All applicants shall furnish all data, information and records requested of them by the police committee or the police department and failure to furnish such data, information and records within thirty (30) days from the date of such request shall automatically serve to dismiss, with prejudice, the application. Applicants, by filing an application, agree to produce for oral interrogation any person requested by the police committee, police department or the city attorney and considered as being important in the ascertainment of the facts relative to such license. The failure to produce such person within thirty (30) days after being requested to do so shall result in the automatic dismissal of such application.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 135, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-157. - Misleading or omitted information.
Any untrue or misleading information contained in or material omission left out of an original, renewal or transfer application for a license under this division shall be cause for the denial thereof. If any license has been granted under these circumstances, there shall be cause for the revocation of same.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 135, 12-5-88)
Sec. 4-158. - Revocation of license; due cause.
No license which has been or which may be issued by the city under this division shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause as hereinafter defined, and only after a hearing and upon the prior three-day written notice to the holder of such license of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the charge upon which such hearing shall be held. "Due cause" for the suspension or revocation of such license shall consist of the violation of any laws or ordinances regulating such businesses, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such businesses, or for the violation of any city ordinance other than the traffic ordinances.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 129, 12-5-88)
