Chapter 20 - POLICE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Private detectives, § 12-191 et seq.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 20-1. - 9-1-1 charge on prepaid wireless transactions.
(a)
Imposition. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2, there is hereby imposed a prepaid wireless 9-1-1 charge as defined by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(a)(4) upon every prepaid wireless retail transaction occurring within the jurisdiction of the public service answering point in the amount of seventy-five cents ($0.75).
(b)
Collection. Prepaid wireless 9-1-1 charges collected by sellers shall be remitted to the commissioner of the department of revenue at the times and in the manner provided by O.C.G.A. Title 48, Chapter 8 with respect to the sales and use tax imposed on prepaid wireless calling service.
(c)
Administrative provisions. The Clerk of the City of Palmetto is hereby directed to file with the state revenue commissioner a certified copy of the ordinance from which this section was derived and amendments thereto in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(1), by December 31, 2011.
(d)
Depositing of funds; use of funds. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(j)(5), funds received by this city from charges imposed by this section shall be deposited in the emergency telephone system fund maintained by this city pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(d)(2) and kept separate from general revenue of the jurisdiction. All such funds shall be used exclusively for the purposes authorized by O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(f).
(Ord. No. 2011-04, § 1, 9-6-11)
Secs. 20-2—20-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POLICE DEPARTMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Subsistence allowance, O.C.G.A. § 35-1-3; employment and training of peace officers, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 20-26. - Residence within city not prerequisite to employment.
It shall not be a prerequisite for law enforcement officers employed by the city to live within the city. This shall be a discretionary matter left solely to the governing body.
(Code 1977, § 13.1-1)
State Law reference— Residency not to be a prerequisite to employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5.
Sec. 20-27. - Responsibility for lost property.
(a)
Property, supposed to have been lost, coming into the possession of any police officer shall be promptly reported and turned in to the chief of police.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to see that any lost property coming into possession of the police department or any member thereof, is promptly restored to the rightful owner thereof as soon as such ownership can be determined, except in cases where further possession of the property shall be necessary for use as evidence in the trial of any case. Where such use of such property is necessary, such property shall be retained in custody of the chief of police, unless the chief of police is furnished with good and sufficient bond, with good and sufficient security for the forthcoming protection of such property in court for use as evidence in any such case in which it may be necessary or desirable to have the same for use as evidence; such bond shall be approved by such chief of police. Property retained by such chief of police for use in the trial of a case shall be restored to the rightful owner, if known, as soon as it is practicable after such trial.
(c)
If the owner of any lost property cannot be determined by search and inquiry, the chief of police, not less than thirty (30) days from the date the same comes into the possession of the police department, shall publish an accurate description of such property in the official newspaper of the city once a week for two (2) consecutive calendar weeks. Such advertised description of the property shall be accompanied by advertisement of notice of the sale of such property, which sale shall be held between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Saturday of the calendar week following the last calendar week in which was published the last advertisement of such notice. The notice of sale shall contain an accurate description of the property and of the time, terms and place of such sale. All such sales shall be public, and shall be in front of the police station, and shall be to the highest bidder for cash.
(Code 1977, §§ 13.1-2—13.1-4)
Sec. 20-28. - Responsibility for recovered stolen property.
(a)
Stolen property recovered by the police department of the city shall be promptly delivered to the rightful owner thereof upon proof of such ownership, subject to the same conditions as set forth in section 20-27.
(b)
Stolen property recovered by the police department, but which is not claimed by the rightful owners thereof within one (1) year from the date of its recovery shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder for cash by the chief of police between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on the first Saturday in any month next after publication to the public of the time and place of such sale, which notice shall contain a fair description of the items of property to be sold and state that such items of property were stolen property recovered by the police department more than one (1) year prior to the date of publication of the notice, stating that such items of property will be sold at public outcry between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., on the first Saturday next ensuing after the last publication of such notice, which notice shall be published in the official newspaper of the city twice before the date of sale.
(c)
At the sale of stolen property the title shall not be warranted, nor guaranteed, and the only title the purchaser will acquire will be such title only as the city has thereto.
(d)
The proceeds from the sale of any stolen property recovered and sold shall be promptly paid to the city treasurer, accompanied by a written report or statement, which statement shall show what property was sold, to whom it was sold, the date of the sale, the price at which it was sold and a reasonable description of the items sold.
(Code 1977, §§ 13.1-5—13.1-8)
Secs. 20-29—20-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE

Sec. 20-46. - Established; supervision; oath; qualifications; call to service.
There is hereby established in the city an auxiliary police force which shall be operated under the supervision and direction of the chief of police. The members of the auxiliary police force shall take and subscribe the same oath as regular police officers of the city. The members of the auxiliary police force shall not be employees of the city, but shall be comprised of a force of voluntary citizens who agree to serve upon the auxiliary police force and be subject to call to service by the chief of police at such times as their assistance shall be required by the chief of police.
(Code 1977, § 13.1-16)
Sec. 20-47. - Approval, certification of members.
No person shall be permitted to serve upon the auxiliary police force until such time as his services in such capacity have been approved by the chief of police and his name certified to the city administrator as a member of the auxiliary police force.
(Code 1977, § 13.1-17)
Sec. 20-48. - Training; compensation.
The chief of police shall establish such training program as he shall deem necessary in order to properly train the members of the auxiliary police force. The auxiliary police force shall receive no compensation except that, when a member has completed the required program of training, and such fact is certified to by the chief of police, a member shall be authorized to receive from the city reimbursement of any cost incurred in the purchase of a uniform, not to exceed the cost of a uniform for the regular police force of the city.
(Code 1977, § 13.1-18)
Sec. 20-49. - Authority.
Whenever the auxiliary police force, or any member thereof, has been called to official duty by the chief of police, such auxiliary police force and any member thereof shall be authorized to exercise any and all powers of law enforcement which may be exercised by a regular police officer of the city, and such law enforcement powers shall continue in any instance until such time as the auxiliary police force, or any member thereof, has been relieved from the assignment to which called.
(Code 1977, § 13.1-19)
