PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The city charter, being Acts 1966, p. 2771, as amended is published in this part. History notes show the source of amendments. The charter has been printed in a style (capitalization, treatment of numbers, etc.) consistent with that of the new Code. In addition, obvious spelling errors have been corrected and the word "Section" has been abbreviated "Sec." in catchlines. All other changes are shown in brackets.

ARTICLE I. - [IN GENERAL]

Sec. 1.1. - Incorporation.
The inhabitants of the City of Palmetto as its corporate limits now exist, or shall hereafter be established as provided by law, shall continue in perpetuity as a body corporate and politic known as the City of Palmetto. All of the corporate rights, privileges, powers, duties, liabilities, and obligations imposed by law upon said corporate body shall continue of full force and effect except as otherwise altered herein. All property rights of whatever nature held, owned or possessed by the City of Palmetto shall be preserved unto said city unless otherwise provided by this charter. The present elected officials shall remain vested of their titles and authority until such time as they are succeeded or reelected as provided herein.
Sec. 2.1. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the City of Palmetto shall extend three-fourths of a mile in each direction from the center of the location of the water tank of the Atlanta and West Point Railroad as located in 1920.
The corporate limits shall also include all that tract or parcel of land located in Land Lots 3 and 4 of the 7th District of Fulton County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
To find the point of beginning, commence at the corner of Land Lots 3, 4, 29 and 30 of the 7th District of Fulton County, being the junction of the northeast corner of Land Lot 3, the southeast corner of Land Lot 4, the southwest corner of Land Lot 29 and the northwest corner of Land Lot 30; thence proceed south 0°58′45″ west 400 feet to a point; thence south 88°58′45″ west a distance of 200 feet to a point; thence south 32°6′20″ west a distance of 316.2 feet to a point; thence south 59°48′ west a distance of 913.4 feet to a point; thence south 0°52′50″ west a distance of 650.1 feet to a point; thence north 89°14′10″ west a distance of 300.2 feet to a point; thence north 30°27′30″ west a distance of 1074.4 feet to a point; thence north 89°19′20″ west a distance of 660 feet to a point; thence north 0°42′10″ east a distance of 163 feet to the center of Cedar Creek and the point of beginning. From the point of beginning thus established, proceed south 0°42′10″ west a distance of 163 feet to a point; thence south 89°19′20″ east a distance of 660 feet to a point; thence south 30°27′30″ east a distance of 1074.4 feet to a point; thence south 89°14′10″ east a distance of 300.2 feet to a point; thence north 0°52′50″ east a distance of 650.1 feet to a point; thence north 59°48′ east a distance of 913.4 feet to a point; thence north 32°06′20″ east a distance of 316.2 feet to a point; thence north 88°58′45″ east a distance of 200 feet to a point; thence north 0°58′45″ east a distance of 1175 feet to a point; thence north 87°14′08″ west a distance of 650 feet to a point; thence north 19°13′20″ west a distance of 650 feet to a point; thence north 08°17′50″ east a distance of 770.2 feet to a point; thence north 51°58′30″ west a distance of 349.8 feet to a point; thence south 14°54′50″ west a distance of 818.9 feet to a point; thence south 01°56′20″ west a distance of 650 feet to a point; thence north 88°07′20″ west a distance of 300 feet to a point; thence north 37°27′10″ west a distance of 600 feet to a point; thence north 01°34′ east a distance of 596.7 feet to a point; thence north 88°26′ west a distance of 300 feet to a point; thence south 01°33′50″ west a distance of 1909.3 feet to a point; thence south 89°18′50″ west 250.4 feet to a point; thence south 89°16′38″ west 845.5 feet to a point; thence south 0°33′22″ east a distance of 30 feet to a point; thence north 89°16′38″ east a distance of 840 feet to a point; thence south 0°41′44″ west a distance of 674.4 feet to the center of Cedar Creek; thence in a northeasterly direction up the center of Cedar Creek a distance of approximately 253 feet to the point of beginning.
The corporate limits of the City of Palmetto shall also include the following described property:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 68, 92, 93, 100, 101 and 124 of the 7th District of Fulton County, being more particularly described as follows: Beginning at that point where the northern right-of-way of Roosevelt Highway intersects with the present city limits of the City of Palmetto in Land Lot 68 and traveling thence in a northeasterly direction along the present north right-of-way of Roosevelt Highway to that point at which the northern right-of-way of Roosevelt Highway intersects with the northern boundary of Land Lot 124; thence in an easterly direction following the northern land lot line of 124 to the eastern boundary of Land Lot 124 where said land lot forms a corner with Land Lots 123, 133 and 134; thence in a southerly direction following the eastern boundary of Land Lot 124 to the southeastern corner of Land Lot 124, where said land lot intersects with and forms a corner with Land Lots 125, 132 and 133; thence in a westerly direction along the southern boundaries of Land Lots 124 and 101 to a point at which the southern boundary of Land Lot 101 intersects with the western right-of-way of Bowen Road; running thence in a southerly direction along the western right-of-way of Bowen Road to a point where the western right-of-way of Bowen Road intersects with the northern right-of-way of Johnson Road; thence following the curvature of the northern right-of-way of Johnson Road in a westerly direction to a point where the north side of the right-of-way of Johnson Road intersects the present corporate city limits of the City of Palmetto; thence northwest and northwesterly along the present corporate limits of the City of Palmetto, following the curvature thereof, to the point of beginning.
Less and except all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 93 and 100 of the 7th District of Fulton County and being lots now or formerly owned by Gerald L. Thompson and Rebecca Lee Thompson, and more particularly described as follows: Beginning at a point where the center line of Johnson Road intersects the line dividing Land Lots 93 and 100 and running thence westerly along the centerline of Johnson Road a distance of 1092 feet to a point; thence north 724 feet to a point; thence west 259 feet to a point; thence north 1094 feet to the center of a branch; thence easterly along the centerline of said branch 87 feet and continuing southeasterly along the meanderings of said branch 1243 feet, more or less, to the line dividing Land Lots 93 and 100; thence easterly 1240 feet, more or less, to the centerline of Bowen Road; thence southerly along said centerline 930 feet to a point; thence west 320 feet to a point; thence south 154 feet to the centerline of Johnson Road; thence southwesterly and westerly along the centerline of Johnson Road 1054 feet, more or less, to the land lot line to the point of beginning.
This tract is more particularly described in deed from Nancy Lee Carswell to Gerald L. Thompson and Rebecca Lee Thompson recorded in Deed Book 6864, p. 429, Fulton County records;
Also, less and except all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 100 of the 7th District of originally Coweta, then Campbell, now Fulton County, Georgia, and being lots now or formerly owned by Gerald L. Thompson and Rebecca Lee Thompson, and being more particularly described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of Bowen Road and Johnson Road, thence along the north side of Johnson Road in a southwesterly direction a distance of 344 feet; thence north a distance of 122 feet; thence east a distance of 320 feet to the west side of Bowen Road; thence south along the west side of Bowen Road a distance of 52 feet, said point being the point of beginning.
This property is more particularly described in a deed from Lee, Watson & Watson to Thompson, recorded in Deed Book 6071, p. 80 of the Fulton County records;
Also, less and except all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 93 of the 7th District of originally Campbell County, now Fulton County, Georgia, and being land now or formerly owned by Gerald L. Thompson and Rebecca Lee Thompson, being more particularly described as follows: Beginning at a point on the north side of the right-of-way of Johnson Road 160 feet west of the intersection of said east line of Land Lot 93 and the right-of-way of Johnson Road on the north side; running thence north parallel to the east line of Land Lot 93, a distance of 720 feet; thence west 285 feet to an iron pin; thence south parallel to the east line of Land Lot 93, a distance of 692.5 feet to the right-of-way of Johnson Road; thence east along the right-of-way of Johnson Road a distance of 285 feet to the point of beginning.
Said tract is more particularly described in a deed from Alton D. Thompson, Jr. and Rebecca Lee Thompson to Gerald L. Thompson and Rebecca Lee Thompson and recorded in Deed Book 5965, p. 423 of the Fulton County records;
Also, less and except all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Fulton County, Georgia, and being property now or formerly owned by James W. Parrott and Linda F. Parrott and being more particularly described as follows: Beginning at a point in the center of Tatum Road at its intersection with the south, or southeast line of the right-of-way of the Atlanta and West Point Railroad, and running thence south 37°30′ east a distance of 350 feet along the center of Tatum Road; running thence south 16°45′ east a distance of 500 feet along Tatum Road; running thence south 28°30′ east a distance of 400 feet along the center of Tatum Road; running thence west 253 feet to an iron pin; running thence 27°15′ west along a fence a distance of 1130 feet, more or less, to an iron pin at the south or southeast line of the right-of-way of the Atlanta and West Point Railroad; running thence northeasterly along said right-of-way a distance of 252 feet, more or less to the center of Tatum Road and the point of beginning.
Said tract is more particularly described in a deed from Flynt to Parrott and Parrott and recorded in Book 5050, page 68, Fulton County records.
Also, less and except all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lot 68, District 7 of Fulton County and being property now or formerly owned by Velita R. Morris and being more particularly described as that lot being triangular in shape as formed by the southern right-of-way of Roosevelt Highway, the western right-of-way of State Highway 54 (Phipps Road) and the northeastern property line of a lot now or formerly owned by the Ramah Baptist Church. This lot is further identified as parcel number 07-3100-0069-065-9 of the Real Estate Atlas of Fulton County, Georgia, Map Volume, South Part 1, 12th Edition, Published 1982.
(Acts 1983, p. 4110, § 1; Acts 1983, p. 4134, § 1)
Sec. 3.1. - Establishment of city government.
The corporate and governmental powers of the City of Palmetto shall be vested in a mayor and six (6) councilmen to be known as the "Mayor and Council of the City of Palmetto." The mayor and council shall be elected by the qualified voters of the city and shall exercise their powers in such manner as prescribed by this charter, the constitution and applicable general laws of the State of Georgia; or if not prescribed, in such manner as prescribed by duly established ordinances of the City of Palmetto.
Sec. 4.1. - Powers, generally.
The City of Palmetto shall have, and is hereby vested with, all powers granted to municipal corporations by the Constitution of Georgia and by the general statutes of Georgia applicable to such municipal corporation, and the enumeration of particular powers in this charter shall in no way act as a limitation on the city's authority to exercise such powers conferred on municipal corporations generally by the constitution or competent state authority. In addition to the express powers conferred by this charter, the Constitution of Georgia and the general statutes of this state, the city shall have such other powers as are necessarily or fairly implied from the express powers granted.
Cumulative to all other powers, the City of Palmetto may adopt and use a common seal; contract and be contracted with; sue and be sued in any court of law, subject to the liabilities and immunities of municipal corporations generally under the laws of this state; plead and be impleaded; purchase, acquire, hold, own, accept by gift, lease or otherwise possess or enjoy any estate in property both real and personal, and may dispose of the same subject to this charter and the laws of general application to such municipal corporation.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.
ARTICLE II. - [QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS OF MEMBERS OF GOVERNING BODY]

Sec. 5.1. - Mayor; qualifications, term of office.
To be eligible for the office of mayor a person must meet the requirements of a qualified elector for members of the General Assembly as prescribed by state law, must have been a bona fide resident of the City of Palmetto for one (1) year next preceding the election in which he offers as a candidate, and must have no debts outstanding against him in favor of the city. The term of office of mayor shall be two (2) years. If at any time after his election a mayor or mayor-elect shall be convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of a crime involving moral turpitude the office shall be declared by the council to be vacant and shall be filled in the manner herein prescribed for filling vacancies occurring in the office of mayor or councilman.
Editor's note— Resolution No. 93-02, resolved on March 1, 1993, stated that the provisions of § 5.1 of the Charter, relating to the mayor's qualifications and term of office, have been modified and are now controlled by the State of Georgia's uniform municipal election laws.
State Law reference— Additional disqualifying factors, O.C.G.A. §§ 21-3-4, 21-3-5; controlling and contrary state law provisions, §§ 21-3-51, 21-3-63.
Sec. 6.1. - Councilmen: Qualifications, terms of office.
The qualifications for the office of councilman shall be the same as those prescribed for the office of mayor. The term of office of councilman shall be two (2) years: Provided, however, that in the 1978 election held under this charter there shall be elected three (3) councilmen to succeed the councilmen whose terms expire December 31, 1978, and in the 1979 election held under this charter there shall be elected three (3) councilmen to succeed the three (3) councilmen whose terms expire December 31, 1979, in order that the terms will be staggered.
(Acts 1976, p. 3623, § 1; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 1)
Editor's note— Resolution No. 93-02, resolved on March 1, 1993, stated that the provisions of § 6.1, relating to councilmen qualifications and terms of office, have been modified and are now controlled by the State of Georgia's uniform municipal election laws.
State Law reference— Additional disqualifying factors, O.C.G.A. §§ 21-3-4, 21-3-5; controlling and contrary state law provisions, §§ 21-3-51, 21-3-63.
Sec. 6.2. - Mayor and councilmen. Special qualification.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this charter, no person who holds any office of the City of Palmetto may thereafter qualify for city office, except a new term for that office which he at that time is serving, without first submitting a resignation from the office which he is holding prior to the time of qualification.
(Ord. No. 81-4, 7-6-81)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 81-4 can be found in Acts 1982, p. 5318.
ARTICLE III. - [ELECTIONS, RECALL, REFERENDUM][2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Municipal Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 7.1. - Regular elections. Time for holding.
The regular election for mayor and councilmen, or councilmen, shall be held on the first Saturday in December of each year. Officials elected at any regular election shall take office on the first of January next following such election.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 1; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
Editor's note— Resolution No. 93-02, resolved on March 1, 1993, stated that the provisions of § 7.1, relating to time of regular elections, have been modified and are now controlled by the State of Georgia's uniform municipal election laws.
State Law reference— Date of general municipal elections, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-51; terms of office, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-60 et seq; controlling and contrary state law provisions, §§ 21-3-51, 21-3-63.
Sec. 8.1. - Qualification of electors.
Any person meeting the qualifications of an elector for members of the General Assembly under state law who has been a bona fide resident of Palmetto for three (3) months next preceding the election in which he desires to vote shall be qualified to register as an elector in any city election held under this charter.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
State Law reference— Qualifications of electors, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-125.
Sec. 9.1. - Election managers.
The mayor and council shall elect, at least thirty (30) days prior to every election, three (3) qualified electors of the City of Palmetto who shall be election managers. The election managers shall be responsible for the proper conduct of the election, for preventing any fraud in connection therewith, for the proper counting of the ballots and for certifying the results as prescribed herein.
Prior to the opening of the polls the election managers shall take the following oath in the presence of any judge, justice of the peace, or in the presence of each other: "I (name) do solemnly affirm that I will fulfill the responsibility placed upon me as an election manager to the best of my ability, that I will uphold the law in connection therewith, and faithfully certify the results as prescribed by law. So help me God."
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
State Law reference— Municipal poll officers, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-30 et seq.
Sec. 10.1. - Conduct of elections, notice.
The mayor and council shall give notice of every regular or special city election at least thirty (30) days prior to said election by advertisement in the newspaper in which Fulton and Coweta counties sheriff's advertisements are made, and by posting said notice in at least three (3) conspicuous places within the city. The notice shall contain the time and place of holding the election, the offices to be filled and any other questions to be voted on.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
State Law reference— Notice of municipal elections, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-51 et seq.
Sec. 10.2. - Time of elections, ballots.
The polls shall be open from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. All voting shall be by ballot.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
State Law reference— Time for opening and closing polls, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-313.
Sec. 10.3. - Place of elections.
The place for holding elections shall be prescribed by the mayor and council in the election notice.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
State Law reference— Fixing of polling places, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-163 et seq.
Sec. 10.4. - Voter registration.
In all elections held in the City of Palmetto, whether primary elections, special or general elections, the voters, in addition to the qualifications already prescribed, shall be registered as herein provided for. It shall be the duty of the clerk [administrator] of the City of Palmetto to open at his office in said city, within ten (10) days from the date of approval of this act [Acts 1978, p. 4142], a book for the registration of voters for said City of Palmetto, and keep the same open at his office at all times when his office is open for the payment of taxes or transaction of city business, except as hereinafter provided. Each person entitled to vote in said city shall subscribe in said book, which shall be arranged in alphabetical order, his or her name, age, place of residence, and occupation. Said clerk must not permit anyone to register who is not entitled to do so; and if he knowingly permits this to be done, he shall be discharged from office or otherwise punished as the mayor and council may decide. Such registration shall be permanent, and all names registered as herein prescribed shall remain upon said list and be qualified to vote in any election so long as said voters shall not become disqualified or his or her name be stricken from the registration list as hereinafter provided. The said registration book shall be closed ten (10) days, immediately preceding each election held in said city, whether the same be a primary election, special or general election, after which time no one shall be allowed or permitted to register for such election, and not until after such election, when said book shall be reopened for registration of voters. At all other times said book shall be kept open as herein provided. No person shall be allowed to vote at any election held in said city unless he or she has registered prior to the closing of said books and his or her name appears upon the registration list.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
State Law reference— Registration of voters, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-120 et seq.
Sec. 10.5. - Voter's lists. Purging.
It shall be the duty of the clerk [administrator] of said city to check the registration list from time to time as may be required by the mayor and council of said City of Palmetto; and upon removal from the city, or other legal cause, he shall furnish the mayor and council of said city with a list of such names with the reasons for their disqualifications, and it shall be the duty of the said mayor and council to revise said registration lists and determine whether the name of such voter should be stricken from the list, after the clerk [administrator] has given five (5) days' written notice to said voter of the time and place when said matter will be acted upon by said mayor and council, said notice to be served either personally by any officer of said city authorized to serve city processes, or by mailing same to the last known address of the voter. At the time fixed in the notice the voter shall have the right to be heard by the said mayor and council before any final action is taken, if he or she so desires.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
State Law reference— Purging of registration lists, O.C.G.A. §§ 21-3-126, 21-3-133.
Sec. 10.6. - Voter's lists, board of registrars.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the mayor and council of the City of Palmetto may prescribe such further rules and regulations with reference to registering, or the revision of the registration lists, as they may see fit and proper, and may create a board of registrars if deemed best, and may delegate to, and place upon, said board of registrars any or all of the duties herein imposed upon the clerk [administrator] or the mayor and council, and they may place any or all of said duties upon any official or officials of said city they may designate, and provide additional compensation to be paid therefor if they see fit.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
Sec. 10.7. - Challenge.
Any candidate, election manager, or qualified elector may challenge any voter and upon such challenge an election manager shall cause the challenged voter to take the following oath: "I (name) do for members of the General Assembly of Georgia, that I solemnly swear that I meet the requirements of an elector, have resided in Palmetto for at least thirty (30) days preceding this election and that I have not previously voted in this election. So help me God." This oath shall be subscribed on the voter's list opposite the name of the challenged elector.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
State Law reference— Challenging voters, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-137 et seq.
Sec. 10.8. - Supplies.
The mayor and council shall direct that all necessary supplies including ballots needed for holding the election are placed in the hands of election managers.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
Sec. 10.9. - Counting the ballots, certifying results.
The election managers shall proceed to count the ballots when the polls are closed. When all votes have been recorded, the ballots will be sealed in a container and delivered to the city clerk [administrator] who shall retain them, unopened, for sixty (60) days. In the event the election is contested or a recount demanded, the election managers in the presence of the council shall reopen the ballots and conduct such recount or take other action as deemed necessary to assure that no mistake or fraud has occurred. Cases of contested elections shall be heard and decided by the mayor and council. If there is no contest, at the end of sixty (60) days the ballots will be destroyed by the clerk [administrator].
The tally sheets containing the results of the election, along with the voter's list shall be certified by the managers and the results made public immediately. The election managers shall place their signatures over the seal. The mayor shall call a meeting of the council not later than seventy-two (72) hours after the polls have closed and certify the result of the election and declare the results of the election. Those receiving the highest number of votes for any office shall be declared elected.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
Sec. 11.1. - Vacancies in office.
(a)
[Reasons for vacancy; appointment of successor.]
(1)
The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the general laws of the State of Georgia.
(2)
Upon the suspension from office of mayor or councilmember in any manner authorized by the general laws of the State of Georgia, the city council or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the duration of the suspension. If the suspension becomes permanent, then the office shall become vacant and shall be filled as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
[Special election.] In the event that the office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant, the city council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such official; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within two (2) years of the expiration of the term of that office, the city council or those members remaining shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2; H.B. No. 1919, Act. No. 755, § 1)
Sec. 12.1. - Recall, initiative and referendum.
modified
Any elective official of the city may be recalled by the electorate in the following manner: Those persons, qualified electors in the City of Palmetto, desiring to recall an elective official shall circulate a petition among the qualified voters of said city stating the name and office occupied by the person being recalled, and setting forth concisely the reasons for such action. When the petition contains the names of at least ten (10) percent of the qualified voters registered at the last regular election, said petition shall be presented to the clerk. The clerk shall then open a registration book for the purpose of registering those qualified voters who desire a referendum on the question. If within thirty (30) days, at least twenty-five (25) percent of the number of voters registered at the last regular election shall sign such book, then a referendum shall be called on the question not less than thirty (30) nor more than forty-five (45) days from such time as the necessary twenty-five (25) percent sign the book. Such referendum shall be governed by the procedure for regular elections and the ballot shall present the question: "For or against recall of ___________ from the office of ___________." Voters shall scratch one leaving their choice. If a majority vote for recall, the office shall be declared vacant and filled in the manner prescribed herein for filling vacancies.
Any ordinance may be proposed by the electorate through the initiative as follows: Those qualified voters desiring to initiate an ordinance shall have the same printed on a petition which they shall circulate among the qualified voters of the city. When at least five (5) percent of the number of qualified voters registered at the last regular election shall have signed the petition, it shall be presented to the mayor and council at the next regular council meeting. The mayor and council shall consider the ordinance and, within thirty (30) days from date of receipt of the petition, shall either vote to take no action thereon or shall proceed to pass the proposal in the manner fixed for enacting ordinances. If the vote is to take no action, the clerk will notify the petitioners of such action and shall open a special registration book which shall remain open for thirty (30) days. Whenever twenty-five (25) percent of the number of qualified voters registered at the last regular election shall sign said registration book, the clerk [administrator] shall notify the mayor who shall call a special election in the manner prescribed, and the election notice shall contain the proposed ordinance. If a majority of the qualified voters voting in the special election vote for the proposal, it shall be declared in force.
The electorate may call for a referendum on any ordinance enacted by the mayor and council, in the following manner: Those qualified voters desiring such referendum shall circulate among the qualified voters of the city a petition setting forth the ordinance on which a referendum is desired. When at least five (5) percent of the number of qualified voters registered at the last regular election shall have signed such petition, it shall be presented to the clerk [administrator] who shall open a special registration book. When twenty-five (25) percent of the number of qualified voters registered at the last regular election shall sign such book, the clerk [administrator] shall notify the mayor who shall suspend any action pursuant to the ordinance in question, and a special election shall be called on the question in the manner prescribed. The election notice shall set forth the ordinance on which the referendum is called. If a majority of the voters voting in the referendum vote for the ordinance, it shall be declared of full force and effect. If a majority of voters voting in the referendum vote against the ordinance, it shall be declared void.
(Acts 1977, p. 3688, § 2; Acts 1978, p. 4142, § 2)
State Law reference— Public Officers Recall Act, O.C.G.A. § 21-4-1 et seq.
ARTICLE IV. - [ASSUMING OFFICE BY MAYOR AND COUNCILMEN, DUTIES, MEETINGS]

Sec. 13.1. - Mayor and council, oath of office.
modified
Upon taking office the mayor shall take the following oath in the presence of the council and shall then administer the oath to the council members. Each oath shall be entered and subscribed on the minutes: "I _____(name)_____ do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully and to the best of my ability perform the duties of Mayor (Councilman) of the City of Palmetto, that I will uphold the Constitution and Laws of the United States and the State of Georgia, and that I will enforce the provisions of the Charter and all duly enacted ordinances of the City of Palmetto, so help me God."
Sec. 14.1. - Mayor, duties.
The mayor is the chief executive officer of the city and chairman of the council. He shall preside at all official meetings of the city government. He is responsible to the people for seeing that the provisions of this charter and all duly enacted ordinances are carried out. He shall supervise the administration of the city government. He shall appoint a recorder to preside over the municipal court established by this charter.
(Acts 1969, p. 2278, § 1)
Editor's note— Pursuant to Ga. Const. art. VI, § X, par. I and O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 "recorder's court" has been changed to "municipal court" in the above section.
State Law reference— Appointment of judges of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2.
Sec. 15.1. - Councilmen, duties; [mayor pro tempore].
The council is the legislative body of the city government and is charged with the responsibility and authority for exercising the powers and duties conferred by this charter and by ordinances enacted hereunder.
At the first council meeting after taking office the council shall elect a mayor pro tempore who shall exercise the authority and duties of the mayor in his absence, or in the event the office of mayor becomes vacant for any reason, he shall occupy such office until it shall be filled as provided herein.
Sec. 16.1. - Exercising the vote, quorum, veto.
The mayor and each councilman shall have one (1) vote on any measure, including ordinances, which is before the council. Four (4) members shall constitute a quorum for conducting business. A majority vote rules; provided, however, that the mayor shall have the authority to veto any measure passed by the council. Such veto must be exercised prior to the next succeeding regular council meeting to the one at which the measure was approved. The council may overrule the veto by a two-thirds vote of the full council.
Sec. 17.1. - Authority of mayor and council to maintain order.
The mayor and each councilman is hereby granted the authority to call forth any and all male citizens of said city to aid in the arrest and apprehension of persons disturbing the peace or violating any laws of said city, and to assist in suppressing riots or other public disturbances. It shall be a misdemeanor for any such citizen to fail to respond when so called unless he shall make proper showing that he was physically incapacitated at the time.
Sec. 18.1. - Council meetings, records.
The council shall hold its regular meetings at such time as fixed by ordinance, but they shall be held at least monthly and shall be open to the public. Special meetings shall be called at the discretion of the mayor or may be called by any four (4) councilmen. The minutes of every regular or special meeting shall be accurately recorded in a minute book to be kept as a public record in the office of the clerk [administrator] and they shall be signed for each meeting by the mayor, or by the clerk [administrator] in the name of the mayor.
Sec. 19.1. - Mayor and councilmen, salaries.
The compensation of the mayor and councilmembers shall be as prescribed by ordinance.
State Law reference— Compensation of members of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 20.1. - Mayor and councilmen excluded from other positions.
Neither the mayor nor any councilmember may occupy any other elective position within the city government.
ARTICLE V. - DEPARTMENTS, EMPLOYEES

Sec. 21.1. - Departments; employees.
The mayor and council shall have the authority to establish by ordinance such departments within the city government as they shall deem necessary and expedient to accomplish any purpose consistent with this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia. The officers, employees, and rules and regulations, including the fixing of compensation, duties and authority of personnel governing such departments shall be as established by ordinance. The appointment and discharge of all employees shall be within the exclusive authority of the council. In every case where an officer or employee of the city is discharged under circumstances which could be prejudicial he shall have the right to a public hearing before the council upon his written request.
(Ord. No. 75-5, § 1, 10-6-75)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 75-5 can be found in Acts 1976, p. 4647.
State Law reference— General authority relative to employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; authority to fix compensation and benefits for employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 22.1. - City clerk; [marshal].
The mayor and council at the first meeting each year shall elect a city clerk who shall act as clerk of council, keep the minutes, ordinances and resolutions, give notice of meetings and perform all other duties required by this charter or prescribed by the mayor and council. Either the chief of police or the clerk may act as marshal for the purposes of levying and collecting all fi. fa's. for taxes, assessments and fines due the city and both may levy and sell property in accordance with the laws in effect in this state governing sheriff's sales.
ARTICLE VI. - [LEGISLATION]

Sec. 23.1. - [Passage of] ordinances [and resolutions].
The mayor and council shall have the authority to pass any resolution or ordinance consistent with this charter, the constitution and general laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, morals, prosperity and well-being of the citizens of Palmetto. All resolutions and ordinances proposed shall be in writing and shall be read at an official meeting of the council. No resolution or ordinance shall be voted on at the meeting at which it is first read, but the vote thereon shall be called at a subsequent meeting on a separate day. The first reading, final passage and vote on every measure shall be recorded in the official minutes.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.
Sec. 24.1. - Codification.
The ordinances of the city, by-laws, and charter may at any time be codified into one (1) book to be known as the Code of the City of Palmetto and the same shall be adopted by the council. When said code is adopted it shall be admissible in evidence in any court of law upon the certificate of the clerk [administrator] in the name of the mayor stating that the same is the official code of the City of Palmetto.
Sec. 25.1. - Personal interest.
It shall be improper and illegal for the mayor or any councilmember to vote upon any question in which he has a personal interest.
Sec. 26.1. - Ordinances continued in force.
All duly enacted ordinances passed prior to the adoption of this charter shall continue in full force and effect, unless the same be in conflict herewith, until such time as they are amended or repealed in accordance with this charter.
ARTICLE VII. - [BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS][3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.

Sec. 27.1. - Power to regulate and license.
The power is hereby granted to the city to provide by ordinance for the registration and licensing of any trade, business, occupation, vocation, profession and any and every other undertaking pursued for the purpose of personal gain or profit of whatever nature, engaged in or carried on within the limits of the city, and regardless of whether or not the subject has an office or establishment within the city.
The mayor and council are authorized to fix the amount, terms and manner of issuing and revoking licenses, provided that this authority is subject to the constitutions and laws of the United States and the State of Georgia.
This power is conferred for the purpose of regulation under the police power of the city and for the purpose of raising revenue for the operation of the city government through the imposition of a tax or fee for the privilege of operating within the city. This authority extends over individuals, partnerships, associations and corporations and their agents.
Sec. 28.1. - Further power to regulate.
In addition to, or cumulative of, any other power and authority granted herein, the City of Palmetto shall have full power and authority to license, regulate, control or prohibit theatrical exhibitions, merry-go-rounds, circuses, dance halls, skating rinks, shows and exhibitions of all kinds, drays, automobiles, jitneys, trucks, taxis, and public and private vehicles of all kinds; traveling vendors or patent medicines, soaps, notions, and all other articles; also hotels, boarding houses, restaurants, lunch stands, drinking stands, fish stands or markets, meat markets, mercantile establishments, chain stores, laundries, billiard, pool and other kinds of tables, tenpins, shooting galleries, and bowling alleys, slot machines or any games operated by "coin-in-slot" devices for carrying on games; also bakeries, dairies, barbershops, livery stables, sales stables, slaughter houses, tanyards, garage or motor vehicle repair shops, blacksmith shops, gins, sawmills, planing mills; also auctioneers, peddlers, and pawnbrokers; all agents of fire, health, accident, indemnity, casualty, and life insurance companies; the sale of all kinds of beverages, alcoholic and nonalcoholic, cigars, cigarettes, and tobacco products of all kinds; also dealers in and/or dispensers of gasoline, either at wholesale or retail, from tanks, or otherwise; and all businesses, occupations, professions, callings, trades and avocations, which under the laws of this state are subject to license; provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to public utility corporations under the supervision of the Georgia Public Service Commission. And said city shall have the power to require registration of, and to assess and collect a license tax on all such businesses, etc., and all other businesses, trades, professions, occupations, or callings conducted or engaged in within the corporate limits of said city, and such occupation tax or license tax shall constitute a lien upon all the property of the taxpayer or person liable, and shall take rank and be enforceable by execution in the same manner as ad valorem taxes due said city; and said city may require the registration of, and payment of license tax on, all such businesses, etc., as a prerequisite to the right to operate or engage in said business in said city, and shall have power to punish anyone conducting or engaging in any such business, etc., without first registering and paying said license taxes. Said city shall have full and complete power to provide by ordinance for classification of all classes and businesses, and all other rules and regulations necessary and proper in the premises.
Sec. 29.1. - Franchises.
The authority is hereby vested in the city to exercise control over the use of its streets. The power is hereby conferred on the city to grant franchises for the use of its streets and alleys, for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone and electric companies and transportation companies. This franchise right extends to, but is not limited to, the erection of poles and stringing of wires, laying of pipes, lines or conduits, both above and below the surface. The mayor and council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of fifty (50) years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receive just and adequate compensation therefor.
The mayor and council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk [administrator] in a registration book to be kept by him. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the registration, within a reasonable time, of all franchises previously granted.
State Law reference— Authority to grant franchises, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2.
ARTICLE VIII. - TAXATION AND FINANCE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Taxation power, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, par. I.

Sec. 30.1. - Ad valorem tax.
For the purpose of defraying the cost of government, the mayor and council are hereby authorized to levy and collect an ad valorem tax on all property subject to taxation, both real and personal, within the city limits. The rate of taxation shall be as prescribed by ordinance within the maximum limits established by the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia. If additional funds over and above the amount realized from the maximum allowable rate are necessary to defray the cost of government, such additional amounts shall be raised in accordance with Georgia Code Annotated, Section 92-4104 [now ;hk; O.C.G.A. § 48-5-353], as it now exists or as it shall be amended or superseded.
Sec. 30.2. - Collections, returns, payment.
The city clerk [administrator], or other officer designated by the mayor and council, shall be the city tax collector. The manner and time of making returns and payments shall be as prescribed by ordinance. The mayor and council is empowered to provide for penalties and interest on delinquent taxes; provided, that any penalty shall not exceed an amount equal to the amount of the tax due plus interest at seven (7) percent from the date due.
The clerk shall enforce all taxes duly assessed under this charter by issuing execution against the delinquent party or his property. Such execution shall be directed to an officer authorized to execute same who shall levy on the property and conduct a sale in the manner prescribed for sheriff's sales in this state.
Sec. 30.3. - Payment by installment.
The mayor and council may provide for payment of taxes by installment; provided, however, that all installments shall become due within one (1) year from the date said taxes were due.
Sec. 30.4. - Assessors.
The mayor and council shall elect three (3) qualified voters of the city who shall constitute the board of tax assessors. Said tax assessors may be removed and replaced at the discretion of the mayor and council. Upon being appointed each tax assessor shall take the following oath: "I do solemnly swear to faithfully execute the duties of tax assessor to the best of my ability and to uphold the charter and ordinances of the City of Palmetto and the Constitution and Laws of the State of Georgia as they relate to my office. So help me God."
It shall be the duty of the board of tax assessors to assess the taxable property within the city and to cause the same to be placed on the digest, to equalize assessments, to discover and return for taxation any taxable property which has not been placed on the digest or returned by the owner as required by ordinance, and to review their assessments from time to time as necessary.
Appeals shall be made to the full board of tax assessors in a manner prescribed by ordinance and the decisions of the board shall be binding on the taxpayer.
Affidavits of illegality may be filed in the manner prescribed by state law for county taxes and directed to the superior court of Fulton County or Coweta County depending on which county the property is located in.
Sec. 30.5. - Professional assistance.
The mayor and council are authorized to hire and contract with professional corporations, firms and individuals for the purpose of securing advice and assistance for any matter pertaining to the proper administration of application of laws and ordinances of said city.
Sec. 31.1. - Further power to tax.
The mayor and council shall have the power to levy such other taxes, in addition to those enumerated herein, as shall be authorized by the General Assembly.
Sec. 32.1. - Bond issues.
The mayor and council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 33.1. - Annual budget and audit.
The mayor and council shall have the authority to adopt an annual budget and to provide for an audit of the city's finances. The governing authority may hire and contract with professional auditors for their services.
State Law reference— Bonds generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.
Sec. 34.1. - Power to borrow.
The mayor and council is hereby vested with the power to borrow money in the name of the city for the purpose of making up temporary deficits in the city treasury. Such loans shall not exceed one (1) mil, and shall be repaid within the fiscal year in which such loan is made.
ARTICLE IX. - [PUBLIC WAYS, SEWERS, DRAINS][5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; sewers generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.

Sec. 35.1. - Streets [powers generally].
The mayor and council is hereby vested with the power to lay out, open, widen, change, straighten, alter, improve, vacate, abandon and otherwise exercise complete control over its streets, alleys, squares and sidewalks.
Sec. 35.2. - Streets; eminent domain.
In order to carry out the powers granted, the power of eminent domain is conferred upon the mayor and council within or without the corporate limits of said city. The power of eminent domain shall be exercised in accordance with Georgia Code Annotated, Chapters 36-2 through 36-6 [now O.C.G.A. tit. 22 [22-1-1 et seq.]] and all laws amendatory or supplemental thereto.
State Law reference— Municipalities granted power of eminent domain, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, para. V.
Sec. 35.3. - Nuisances.
The mayor and council shall provide for the removal of any and all obstacles and nuisances in regard to the streets, alleys or sidewalks, or other public places within the city and shall adopt appropriate ordinances to accomplish this purpose.
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.
Sec. 35.4. - Street improvements.
At such time as Chapter 69-4, Georgia Code Annotated [now O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 39 [§ 36-39-1 et seq.]] is adopted by referendum as provided by Code Section 69-402 [now O.C.G.A. § 36-39-2], the same shall become a part of this charter, subject to all future amendments and supplements to said Chapter 69-4, and said Chapter 69-4 shall govern street improvements within the city.
Sec. 36.1. - Sewers and drains [eminent domain; tapping on].
The power is hereby granted to the mayor and council to provide for the establishment, extension and maintenance of a system of sewers and drains, together with a sewerage disposal system. This power includes the authority to extend said system beyond the corporate limits. For these purposes the city is granted the power of eminent domain both within and without the corporate limits. Power of eminent domain shall be exercised in accordance with Chapters 36-2 through 36-6, Georgia Code Annotated [now O.C.G.A. tit. 22 [§ 22-1-1 et seq.]], subject to such amendments and supplements as shall be enacted thereto.
The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for reasonable connection fees for tapping into the water and sewer lines of said city, and may compel citizens to tap into same when such service is made available.
ARTICLE X. - [ZONING AND PLANNING, CONSTRUCTION, UTILITIES, CEMETERIES]

Sec. 37.1. - Zoning and planning.
The mayor and council is hereby vested with such powers relative to zoning and planning within the corporate limits as are granted to municipalities under Chapter 69-8, Georgia Code Annotated [now repealed], and any amendments or supplements which may be enacted thereto.
State Law reference— Power to plan and zone, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, par. IV.
Sec. 38.1. - Building, electrical and plumbing regulations.
The mayor and council is hereby vested with the power to enact such reasonable rules and regulations as it may seem necessary or expedient regarding the construction of buildings, remodeling of buildings, plumbing and electrical wiring and equipping of buildings, in order to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens and to guard against fire or other property damage. This power may, in the discretion of the governing body, be exercised by adoption of such standard building, electrical and plumbing codes as may seem appropriate; provided, however, that no code so adopted, nor regulations promulgated in connection therewith, shall apply to communication equipment installations made by or for a utility rendering common carrier communication services and required by it to be utilized as a part of its plant in the rendition of its duly authorized services to the public. The mayor and council is empowered to engage the necessary personnel to enforce such rules and regulations as adopted, and to charge reasonable fees for inspection and permits; and may require the obtaining of a permit as a condition precedent to any construction, building, or electrical or plumbing work.
The mayor and council may enact all ordinances necessary to enforce said rules and regulations.
Sec. 39.1. - Municipal utilities.
The mayor and council is hereby granted the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, maintain and operate a waterworks system, electrical power system and gas systems; to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered by any of said systems; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with law; to exercise the power of eminent domain in regard to any of said systems, both within and without the corporate limits; to contract to furnish service through any of said systems to consumers outside the corporate limits.
State Law reference— Municipal water systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.
Sec. 39.2. - Telecommunications.
The City shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell, resell, build, maintain, operate and contract with respect to a telecommunications systems network in order to provide telecommunications services and similar other services, including cable television services (CATV), to establish and charge rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished or made available by such undertaking; to interconnect its system or services, or both, with the systems or services of consumers and other providers, to use telecommunications to respond to community needs, encourage the development of information-based organizations in the City of Palmetto, Georgia, to finance from time to time any such telecommunications systems through the issuance of revenue bonds as then permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia; and to make any contract with respect to and furnish the services of any said systems to consumers within or outside the corporate limits of the City.
(Ord. No. 02-02, § 1, 4-1-02)
Sec. 40.1. - Cemeteries.
The mayor and council is hereby granted the authority to purchase, acquire, lease, accept and hold property, or any legal interest therein, for the purpose of establishing and maintaining public cemeteries whenever the same shall be deemed in the best interest of the citizens of said city. The governing body may establish rules and regulations governing cemeteries, and may establish a schedule of fees and charges in connection therewith.
The power of eminent domain is granted, both within and without the city limits for the purpose of acquiring property for public cemeteries.
State Law reference— Eminent domain, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, par. V; O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.
ARTICLE XI. - MUNICIPAL COURT[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Pursuant to Ga. Const. art. VI, § X, par. I and O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 all references in this article to "recorder's court" are changed to "municipal court."
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 41.1. - Established.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the "Municipal Court of the City of Palmetto." Said court shall be presided over by a recorder appointed by the mayor in conformity with the provisions of this charter. Such recorder shall preside at the municipal court established by this charter and for all intents and purposes he is constituted an ex officio justice of the peace in the manner of and pertaining to criminal cases of whatsoever nature in the several courts of this state.
(Acts 1969, p. 2278, § 2)
State Law reference— Powers of judges of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3.
Sec. 41.2. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or such times as deemed necessary by the recorder to dispose of the business of the court or both. The court shall sit at a place designated by ordinance.
(Acts 1969, p. 2278, § 3)
Sec. 41.3. - Jurisdiction; powers.
The municipal court shall try and punish for crimes against the City of Palmetto and for violation of its ordinances. The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence, or so near thereto as to affect its operation, for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or twenty (20) days in jail or both. The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for one hundred eighty (180) days or both.
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violation of state law.
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations and may prescribe the conditions for forfeiture of the same.
The municipal court shall have authority to administer oaths and perform all other acts necessary or proper to the conduct of said court.
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears that a state law has been violated.
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena and warrants which may be served as executed by an officer so authorized by this charter or by state law.
(Ord. No. 95-02, § 1, 8-7-95)
Sec. 41.4. - Records.
The recorder shall cause the city clerk [administrator] to keep such records of proceedings as shall be necessary to a full understanding of the charge, evidence and disposition of each case tried before the municipal court.
(Acts 1969, p. 2278, § 4)
State Law reference— Powers and jurisdiction of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-32-3, 36-32-5 et seq.
Sec. 41.5. - Certiorari.
Certiorari from the municipal court to the superior court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as prescribed for certiorari from the various justice courts of the state.
Sec. 41.6. - Procedure.
All reasonable rules and regulations relative to procedure and to the operation of said municipal court may be enacted by the mayor and council, provided that such rules and regulations shall be consistent with the provisions set forth in this charter and in conformance with the constitutions of the United States and Georgia and all laws of general application thereunder.
Sec. 41.7. - Recorders' compensation.
The compensation of the recorder appointed hereunder shall be as prescribed by ordinance.
(Acts 1969, p. 2278, § 5)
State Law reference— Authority to establish salaries, ;hk; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 41.8. - Prosecution of nontraffic ordinances by summons.
Prosecution of nontraffic ordinance violations in the municipal court may be commenced and carried on by the issuance of a summons, without the necessity of a warrant where the violation occurs in the presence of a police officer of the city or other official otherwise authorized by ordinance to issue summons.
(Ord. No. 85-1, 5-14-85)
Sec. 41.9. - Penalty for failing to appear in court.
The failure of a defendant to appear in court as directed by summons or warrant issued under the provisions of this article may be treated by the judge of the municipal court as contempt and punishable as provided by the charter.
(Ord. No. 85-1, 5-14-85)
Sec. 41.10. - Cumulative procedure.
This article shall in no way be interpreted as prohibiting the application for or the issuance of a city warrant in any instance where the officer or other official deems such course to be appropriate, or where the ordinance violation is not committed in the presence of the arresting officer, or other official, and should be interpreted as constituting cumulative procedure insofar as the prosecution and disposition of nontraffic violations are concerned.
(Ord. No. 85-1, 5-14-85)
ARTICLE XII. - [LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS]

Sec. 42.1. - [Severability].
The provisions of this charter are severable, and should any part or parts thereof be held unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction the same shall not affect those portions remaining, but they shall remain of full force and effect.
Sec. 43.1. - Repeal [specifically].
An act entitled "An Act to create a new charter for the Town of Palmetto, in Campbell County (Fulton County), Georgia, and to repeal all acts theretofore passed creating a charter for said town or amending same, and for other purposes," (Ga. Laws 1920, pgs. 1380—1398) approved August 7, 1920, as amended by an act as approved July 29, 1926 (Ga. Laws 1926, pg. 675), as amended by an act approved August 15, 1927 (Ga. Laws 1927, pgs. 1462—1465), as amended by an act approved August 26, 1931 (Ga. Laws 1931, pgs. 915—916), as amended by an act approved March 15, 1943 (Ga. Laws 1943, pgs. 1501—1502), as amended by an act approved March 15, 1943 (Ga. Laws 1943, pgs. 1503—1504), as amended by an act approved February 25, 1949 (Ga. Laws 1949, pgs. 1535—1536), as amended by an act approved March 4, 1953 (Ga. Laws 1953, pgs. 2980—2985), as amended by an act approved March 3, 1962 (Ga. Laws 1962, pgs. 2851—2853), is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Sec. 44.1. - [Repeal generally].
All laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
