ARTICLE IV. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee saved from repeal, § 1-6(4); director of the emergency management agency, § 34-33; local administrator for flood damage prevention, § 42-81; officers of the tree commission, § 78-34.
State Law reference— Personal liability of councilmembers and other municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; power to define, regulate and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation and tenure of municipal officers, agents and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(2); code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1; fair Employment Practices Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.

Sec. 2-171. - Employees generally.
A personnel policy manual shall be kept on file in the city clerk's office.
(Code 1979, § 3-404)
Sec. 2-172. - Code of ethics.
(a)
Prohibited conduct. Public officials and employees of the city shall treat all citizens with courtesy, impartiality, fairness and equality under the law and shall avoid both actual and potential conflicts between their private self-interest and the public interest. Prohibited conduct of each such official and employee shall include but is not limited to the following:
(1)
Granting or making available to any person any special consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large;
(2)
Requesting, using or permitting the use of any publicly owned or publicly supported property, vehicle, equipment, labor or service for the personal convenience or the private advantage of himself or any other person, except as otherwise allowed by law;
(3)
Participating in the deliberation of or voting on any matter involving his financial or personal interest;
(4)
Engaging in private employment with or rendering services for any private person who has business transactions with the city unless he has made full public disclosure of the nature and extent of such employment or services;
(5)
Appearing on behalf of any private person, other than himself, before any public body in the city;
(6)
Accepting any gift, whether in the form of money, thing, favor, loan or promise, that would not be offered or given to him if he were not an official or employee;
(7)
Disclosing any confidential information concerning an official or employee, or any other person, or any property or governmental affairs of the city, without prior formal authorization of the governing body;
(8)
Using or permitting the use of confidential information to advance the financial or personal interest of himself or any other person; or
(9)
Appointing or voting for the appointment of any person related to him by blood or marriage to fill an office, position, employment or duty, when the salary, wages, pay or compensation is to be paid out of public funds.
(b)
Hearings and determinations. Upon the sworn complaint of any person alleging facts which if true would constitute a violation of this section, the council shall conduct a public hearing at which the accused shall be given an opportunity to be heard, either personally or through counsel. At the conclusion of the hearing, the council shall, in written findings of fact and conclusions based on such facts, make a determination concerning the propriety of the conduct of the official or employee in question.
(Code 1979, § 3-102)
Sec. 2-173. - Operation of administrative service.
All units in the administrative service shall:
(1)
Office hours. Be open between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on weekdays and shall be closed on Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays.
(2)
Make daily deposit. Make a daily deposit with the city treasurer of any moneys received directly from the public.
(3)
Payment of moneys. Pay out moneys belonging to the city only in the manner prescribed in this chapter.
(Code 1979, § 3-103(5))
Sec. 2-174. - Bonds.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the mayor and council may require any department head, city official or employee, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, to give good and sufficient bond in any amount decided by the mayor and council. This bond shall be payable to the city for the faithful performance of such duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures in office. These surety bonds shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the state and approved by the mayor and council. The premiums on the bond shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1979, § 3-104)
Sec. 2-175. - Retirement plan for employees.
A copy of the ordinance establishing a retirement plan for the employees of the city and setting forth the joint trust agreement and the contract for the administration of the plan by the city and the joint municipal employees' retirement system is on file in the city clerk's office. A copy of any amendments to the plan are attached to the ordinance.
(Code 1979, § 3-405)
Secs. 2-176—2-210. - Reserved.
