Chapter 10 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 26; noise from animals and birds, § 26-38; disposal of dead animals, § 42-10.
State Law reference— Authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Enforcement.
Any person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-11. Any fine, when collected, shall be paid to the city and shall become part of the city general fund. In addition to fines levied, any individual found to be in violation of this chapter will be required to reimburse the city general fund for any costs incurred by the city during abatement procedures.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 5)
Sec. 10-2. - Unattended animals at large.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal or any person having an animal to allow it to run at large unattended.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 1)
Sec. 10-3. - Animals at large.
(a)
On streets, highways. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal or any person having an animal in his custody, to allow it to run at large unattended on or about the streets and highways of the city.
(b)
On private property. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal or any person having an animal in his custody, to allow it to run at large unattended on the property of another person without permission of the owner of that property or of the person in possession of that property.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 2)
Sec. 10-4. - Control of animals.
(a)
Generally. It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal, or any person having any animal in his possession or custody, to ensure that the animal is enclosed by a fence or other enclosure or is restrained by a chain or leash or in some other physical manner or under control by a competent person so that it cannot wander off of the real property limits of its owner, possessor or custodian except as provided in this article.
(b)
Off premises of owner. It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal, or any person having an animal in his possession, to keep that animal under control at all times while the animal is off the real property limits of the owner, possessor, or custodian.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 2)
Sec. 10-5. - Fowl at large.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow fowl of any kind to run at large in the city.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 2)
Sec. 10-6. - Abandonment of animals.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to knowingly abandon any animal within the city. Each person who knowingly abandons an animal or willingly permits such abandonment, or aids in the abandonment of any animal, shall be in violation of this section.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 2)
Sec. 10-7. - Permit for wild, exotic, dangerous or nondomestic animals.
No person shall have, keep or maintain any wild, exotic, dangerous or nondomestic animal or reptile without first applying to and receiving from the police department a permit to do so. The charge for this permit shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 2)
Sec. 10-8. - Identification of owners.
It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal, or any person having any animal in his possession or custody, to ensure that the animal wears a collar with a tag identifying the name, address and telephone number of the owner.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 2)
Sec. 10-9. - Swine prohibited.
No hogs shall be kept within the city.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 2)
Sec. 10-10. - Agricultural animals.
No new agricultural animals such as cattle, sheep, goats, horses, gamebirds, etc., may be raised or kept within the city limits after December 5, 2000. Residents raising or keeping the aforementioned animals, on December 5, 2000, may continue to maintain their current animals but may not expand with new animals, or replace animals as they are sold, removed, die or are otherwise disposed of. However, should the keeping of animals in accordance with this section present a nuisance to the public, or to the immediate neighbors of the person owning or keeping such animals, then that issue will be addressed on a case by case basis by the municipal court.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 2)
Secs. 10-11—10-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ABATEMENT PROCEDURES

Sec. 10-41. - Initiation.
Proceedings to abate a violation of this chapter, whether public or private, shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint with the city police department. Such complaint shall state the nature and location of the violation and the name and address of the complainant or complainants. In the case of a private violation, the complaint shall be filed by the person injured by the violation. In the case of a public violation, the complaint will be filed on behalf of the public by a city official.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 4(1))
Sec. 10-42. - Notice of hearing.
If, upon investigation of a complaint under this article, the city police department finds evidence to support the complaint, a citation shall be issued, with such citation being bound over to municipal court.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 4(2))
Sec. 10-43. - Removal of animal.
If the owner of an animal running at large is known, the owner will be directed by the police to retrieve and properly control the animal. At the discretion of the police officer, the owner may be issued a citation to appear in municipal court for violation of this chapter. If the owner of an animal running at large cannot be determined, the city may arrange for the removal of the animal by the county animal control or by a private contractor.
(Ord. of 12-5-2000, § 4(3))
ARTICLE III. - ADOPTION OF CHEROKEE COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE

Sec. 10-44. - Adoption.
The city hereby adopts the Cherokee County Animal Control Ordinance, as codified in chapter 10 of the Cherokee County Code of Ordinances, in its entirety, with the exceptions that the phrase "Cherokee County" shall be replaced by the phrase "the City of Nelson" and that the phrase "the county" shall be replaced by the phrase "the city," unless such references relate to the agreement for Cherokee County to provide animal control services to the City of Nelson.
(Ord. of 8-4-2008)
Sec. 10-45. - Fees.
The incorporated areas of the City of Nelson shall be subject to the fees charged by the Cherokee County Marshal's Office and all of said fees shall be retained by Cherokee County to defray the costs of the marshal's office related to animal control.
(Ord. of 8-4-2008)
Sec. 10-46. - Conflicting provisions.
If any provision of the Animal Control Ordinance herein adopted conflicts with any other provision of the Code of the City of Nelson, the provisions of this article III shall control.
(Ord. of 8-4-2008)
Secs. 10-47—10-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ADOPTION OF PICKENS COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE

Sec. 10-61. - Adoption.
The city hereby adopts, for enforcement within the incorporated areas of the City of Nelson which are located within the boundaries of Pickens County, the Pickens County Animal Control Ordinance, as codified in chapter 14 of the Pickens County Code of Ordinances, in its entirety, with the exceptions that the phrase "Pickens County" shall be replaced by the phrase "the City of Nelson" and that the phrase "the county" shall be replaced by the phrase "the city," unless such references relate to the agreement for Pickens County to provide animal control services to the City of Nelson.
(Ord. of 2-7-2011)
Sec. 10-62. - Fees.
The incorporated areas of the City of Nelson shall be subject to the fees charged by the Pickens County Sheriff and all of said fees shall be retained by Pickens County to defray the costs of the sheriff related to animal control.
(Ord. of 2-7-2011)
Sec. 10-63. - Conflicting provisions.
If any provision of the Animal Control Ordinance herein adopted conflicts with any other provision of the Code of the City of Nelson, the provisions of this article IV shall control.
(Ord. of 2-7-2011)
