Chapter 46 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness saved from repeal, § 1-6(2); administration, ch. 2; finance, § 2-131 et seq.
State Law reference— Local government budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAXES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 46-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Location of office shall not include a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue-raising purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation is one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. This term shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 2.0)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 46-32. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 10.0)
Sec. 46-33. - Enforcement of provisions.
It is the duty of the city clerk, or the mayor or other appropriate officer, to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed; and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the court. It is the further duty of the city clerk, the mayor, and their assistants to inspect all occupation tax receipts issued by the city, as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the occupation tax receipt held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 31.0)
Sec. 46-34. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction before the city or county judge, be punished as provided in section 1-11 of this Code.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 17.0)
Sec. 46-35. - Required.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for such business, trade, profession, or occupation tax and any applicable occupation tax receipt shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the city, such business tax receipt shall be shown to the city clerk or his deputies or to any police officer of the city upon request.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 1.00)
Sec. 46-36. - Exemptions.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.)
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 19.0)
Sec. 46-37. - Administrative, regulatory fee structure.
(a)
A nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk, shall be required on all business and occupation tax accounts for the initial start-up, renewal, or reopening of those accounts.
(b)
A regulatory fee will be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on those applicable businesses. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee.
(c)
Each of the following listed occupations and professions shall pay a regulatory fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk:
Auto and motorcycle racing.
Boardinghouses.
Boxing and wrestling promoters.
Burglar and fire alarm installers.
Businesses providing bonds.
Carnivals.
Dealers in precious metals.
Escort services.
Firearm dealers.
Fortunetellers.
Garbage collectors.
Handwriting analysts.
Health clubs, gyms and spas.
Hotels and motels.
Hypnotists.
Landfills.
Locksmiths.
Massage parlors and therapists.
Modeling agencies.
Parking lots.
Pawnbrokers.
Peddlers.
Scrap metal possessors.
Shooting galleries and firearm ranges.
Stables.
Tattoo artists.
Taxicab and limousine operators.
Vending boxes and machines.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 3.0)
Sec. 46-38. - Levied.
(a)
Applicability. An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the city and/or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the following criteria:
(1)
The number of employees of the business or practitioner is the total number of salaried employees of the business plus the total number of equivalent full-time hourly employees.
(2)
To calculate the total number of equivalent full-time employees, first multiply the total number of all hourly employees of the business for the calendar year preceding the year for which the occupation tax is being levied times the total number of hours worked by all hourly employees of the business during such preceding calendar year. Then divide the total number of hours worked by all hourly employees by 2,000 to determine the total number of equivalent full-time hourly employees of the business.
(b)
Occupation tax schedule. The tax rate determined by the number of employees for each business, trade, profession, or occupation is as follows and will be developed and updated from time to time by the city:
EXPAND
Employees Tax Liability
1—3  $ 30.00 per employee
4—8  25.00 per employee
9—99 15.00 per employee
100 or more 1,500.00
  (Ord. of 12-5-1995, §§ 4.0, 16.0)
Sec. 46-39. - Exclusions.
(a)
No business or practitioner shall be required to pay more than one occupation tax for each of its locations.
(b)
No occupation tax shall be required from those real estate brokers, real estate agents, or real estate companies whose offices are located outside the jurisdiction and who sell property inside the jurisdiction.
(c)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to those professions which are subject to licensure and regulation by the state or state agency.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 4.0(c))
Sec. 46-40. - When tax due.
The amount of occupation tax shall be payable to the city, at the office of the treasurer, on January 1 each year and delinquent if not paid on or before February 1 each year. There is no provision for partial payment, and partial payments will be rejected.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, §§ 11.0(a), 21.0)
Sec. 46-41. - Effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
On any new profession, trade, or calling, the occupation tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a 25 percent penalty shall be imposed. The tax provided for by this article shall be issued by the city clerk. If any person whose duty it is to pay an occupation tax, after such occupation tax becomes delinquent, transacts in the city any of the kind of profession, trade, or calling subject to this article without having first paid such tax, such offender shall, upon conviction by the municipal judge, be punished as provided in section 1-11 of this Code.
(b)
In addition to the remedies provided by this article, the city may proceed to collect any delinquent occupation tax in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 11.0)
Sec. 46-42. - Issuance.
The occupation tax receipt provided for by this article shall be issued by the city clerk.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 11.0(a))
Sec. 46-43. - Paying tax of business with no location in state.
An occupation tax is imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the city and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 5.0)
Sec. 46-44. - Identification of separate lines of business.
(a)
The occupation tax receipt of each business operated in the city's jurisdiction shall identify the line or lines of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the city and that line of business being noted by the city upon the occupation tax receipt, which is to be displayed by the business owner.
(b)
The occupation tax receipt of each business operated in the city shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 6.0)
Sec. 46-45. - Separate businesses at separate locations.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 7.0)
Sec. 46-46. - Professionals as classified in state law.
(a)
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on the number of employees as set forth in other provisions of this article.
(2)
A fee, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk, per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service. Such tax shall be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this subsection shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to the gross receipts of the business or practitioner. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(b)
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by January 1 of each year.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 8.0)
Sec. 46-47. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentalities of the United States, the state or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 6.0)
Sec. 46-48. - Exemption for charitable purpose.
No business on which an occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from such tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose unless 50 percent or more of the entire proceeds from such business are devoted to such purpose.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 12.0)
Sec. 46-49. - Evidence of state license required, display.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. tit. 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state license before the city occupation tax receipt may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 13.0)
Sec. 46-50. - Evidence of qualification required.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of the city occupation tax receipt, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 14.0)
Sec. 46-51. - Liability of officers, agents.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary occupation tax receipt for such business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain an occupation tax receipt. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall likewise pay the occupation tax required by this article before commencing the same; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the city, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so complied with this article, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 15.0)
Sec. 46-52. - Subpoena, arrest powers.
The city's duly designated officer and inspectors or its successors shall be classified as deputy marshal-business inspectors with full subpoena and arrest powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to this article.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 18.0)
Sec. 46-53. - Tax inapplicable where prohibited or otherwise provided by law.
An occupation tax shall not apply to a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by state law or law of the United States.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 20.0)
Sec. 46-54. - Payment of tax by newly established businesses.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the city in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager, or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees from the commencing date to the end of the calendar year and such tax shall be paid on the basis of that estimate prior to commencing business. Where a taxpayer fails to make such payment prior to commencing business, a penalty will be imposed as provided by section 1-11 of this Code.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 22.0)
Sec. 46-55. - Multiple business locales, lines.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, such business shall be required to pay the appropriate occupation tax for each location and line and in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate for each location and line.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 23.0)
Sec. 46-56. - Returns confidential.
Except in the case of judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the occupation tax levied by this article, it shall be unlawful for any officer, employee, agent, or clerk of the city, or any other person to divulge or make known in any manner the amount of any particulars set forth or disclosed in any occupation tax return required under this article. All contents of such returns are for the purpose of this occupation tax levy and the collection of the tax. Independent auditors or bookkeepers employed by the city shall be classified as employees. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the publication by the city officials of statistics, so classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns and items thereof; or the inspection of the records by duly qualified employees of the tax departments of the state, the United States, and other local governments.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 24.0)
Sec. 46-57. - Inspection of books and records.
In any case the city clerk, through his officers, agents, employees, or representatives, may inspect the books of the business for which the returns are made. The city clerk shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the city, and upon demand of the city clerk such books or records shall be submitted within 30 days for inspection by a representative of the city. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the occupation tax receipt currently existing to do business in the city. Adequate records shall be kept in the city for examination by the city clerk at that officer's discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of underreporting, a penalty of 125 percent of the prime interest rate times the amount deficient will be assessed for the period delinquent. For purposes of this section, the prime interest rate shall be that which is published by The Wall Street Journal on the first business day of the year in which the underreporting is identified.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 25.0)
Sec. 46-58. - Revocation generally.
Upon the failure of any business to pay the occupation tax imposed by this article, or any part thereof, before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to fully comply with the provisions of this article, any occupation tax receipt granted by the city under this article permitting the owner of such business to do business for the current year shall be revoked. No new occupation tax receipt shall be granted by the city for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid, or to an individual, firm, or corporation who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the city clerk in accordance with provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 26.0)
Sec. 46-59. - Effect of noncompliance with article; continuing business after revocation.
(a)
Any person, his manager, agent, or employee, who does business in the city without full compliance with the provisions of this article shall be subject to penalties as provided in section 1-11 of this Code.
(b)
Regarding those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax. These penalties may consist of either a percentage of the amount due or a flat fee fine.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 27.0)
Sec. 46-60. - Lien taken for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies provided for the collection of the occupation tax levied by this article, the city clerk, upon any such tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of such tax against the person liable for such tax, which such execution shall bear interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date when such tax becomes delinquent, and the lien shall convert the property in the city of the person liable for such tax, all as provided by the ordinances and charter of the city and state law. The lien of such occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the city marshal or other appropriate officer of the city upon the property of the defendant located in such jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of such execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by the ordinances and charter of the city and state law, and the defendant in such execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the city clerk against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him as though he had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 28.0)
Sec. 46-61. - Amendment, repeal of provision.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the council to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Such amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the jurisdiction of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property, or business.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 29.0)
Sec. 46-62. - Continuity of provisions.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the council. All provisions of this article relating to any form of tax levied by this article shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 32.0)
Sec. 46-63. - Public hearing before tax increase.
The council shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 33.0)
Sec. 46-64. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in tax.
The council may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in the occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in the occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 12-5-1995, § 34.0)
Secs. 46-65—46-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - INSURERS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted July 11, 2011, repealed the former Art.III, §§ 46-101—46-107, and enacted a new Art. III as set out herein. The former Art. III pertained to similar subject matter and derived from an ordinance adopted on Dec. 6, 1994, §§ 1—6.

Sec. 46-101. - Insurers license fees.
There is hereby levied for the year 2012 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the City of Nelson, Georgia in the amount of $25.00. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by section 46-102, which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount of $25.00. For the purposes of this article, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(Ord. of 7-11-2011)
Sec. 46-102. - License fee for insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations.
For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, said insurer shall pay an additional license fee of $10.00 per location for the year 2012 and for each year thereafter.
(Ord. of 7-11-2011)
Sec. 46-103. - Gross premiums tax imposed on life insurers.
There is hereby levied for the year 2012 and for each year thereafter an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the State of Georgia in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. Gross direct premiums as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 46-101 of this article.
(Ord. of 7-11-2011)
Sec. 46-104. - Gross premiums tax, all other insurers.
There is hereby levied for the year 2012 and for each year thereafter an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in subsection 1 of O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5, doing business within the State of Georgia in an amount equal to two and one-half percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. Gross direct premiums as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 46-101 of this article.
(Ord. of 7-11-2011)
Sec. 46-105. - Due date for license fees.
License fees imposed in sections 46-101 and 46-102 of this article shall be due and payable on the first day of 2012 and on the first date of each subsequent year.
(Ord. of 7-11-2011)
Sec. 46-106. - Administrative provisions.
The city clerk is hereby directed to forward a duly certified copy of this article to the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Georgia within 45 days of its enactment.
(Ord. of 7-11-2011)
Sec. 46-107. - Effective date.
This article shall become effective January 1, 2012.
(Ord. of 7-11-2011)
Sec. 46-108. - Severability.
In the event any portion of this article shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, it is the intention of the City Council of the City of Nelson, Georgia, that such adjudication shall in manner affect the other sections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this article which shall remain in full force and effect, as if the invalid or unconstitutional section, sentence, clause or phrase were not originally a part of the article.
(Ord. of 7-11-2011)
Sec. 46-109. - Repealer.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this article are hereby repealed.
(Ord. of 7-11-2011)
Secs. 46-110—46-140. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Finance, § 2-131 et seq.
State Law reference— Local depository financial institutions business license tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 46-141. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Gross receipts has the same meaning as is ascribed to the term "gross receipts" for each such depository financial institution in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 46-142. - Tax levied.
(a)
Pursuant to the authority contained in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is levied for each year, upon each state and national bank, each federal savings and loan association, and each state building and loan association located in the city, not exempted by state law, an annual business license tax at the rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of each such institution, or $1,000.00, per annum, whichever amount is greater.
(b)
The taxes levied by subsection (a) of this section for each year shall be levied on the amount of gross receipts received by each such depository financial institution during the immediately preceding calendar year.
Sec. 46-143. - Returns.
Each depository financial institution subject to the tax levied by this article shall file with the city not later than March 1 of each year a return of its gross receipts received by it during the immediately preceding calendar year. The returns shall be made in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of banking and shall be based on the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The tax levied pursuant to this article shall be assessed and collected based upon the information provided in the return.
Sec. 46-144. - When taxes due and payable.
The taxes levied by this article shall be due and payable on April 1 of each year.
