Chapter 42 - SOLID WASTES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; environment, ch. 26; manufactured housing, ch. 34.
State Law reference— Unlawful placement of signs within right-of-way of public road, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-51; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2); Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1.

Sec. 42-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Garbage means all household or domestic waste, including waste from the preparation and cooking of food, vegetable, fruit and meat scraps, ashes, cans and bottles, paper, floor sweepings, cardboard and other such material to be disposed of from residences, churches, schools, office buildings, and small business establishments and similar places.
Incineration means the process of converting any combustible material into an inert noncombustible ash or residue by burning.
Industrial refuse means waste material from industrial processes, automobile bodies or other motor vehicle bodies, manufacturing, textile or otherwise, canneries, slaughterhouses, packing plants, poultry processing plants, or similar industries, and large quantities of condemned foods.
Private contractor means any person, other than a municipality, who collects, removes, salvages, scavenges and/or disposes of refuse from one or more public or private premises, other than his own, whether or not under written contract, and whether or not for compensation.
Refuse means garbage, rubbish, and/or industrial refuse.
Refuse receptacle means a can, compartment, bin or other container used to keep, collect, or store refuse pending its removal for disposal.
Rubbish means tree branches, twigs, grass, shrub clippings, weeds, leaves and/or street sweepings.
Sanitary landfill means the orderly deposition of refuse so as to prevent any stench and/or nuisance.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 42-2. - Obstruction of ways.
At no time shall refuse and/or refuse receptacles be placed in such a manner as to obstruct gutters, drains, walkways, streets, or other passageways.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 2)
Sec. 42-3. - Dumping prohibited on roads.
No road ditches or road rights-of-way shall be used for the dumping or disposal of refuse.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 2)
Sec. 42-4. - Dumping prohibited in waterways.
No dumping or disposal of refuse shall be in any stream, creek, lake, swamp or other body of water.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 2)
Sec. 42-5. - Burning industrial waste prohibited.
No industrial refuse shall be burned.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 2)
Sec. 42-6. - Refuse collection equipment.
(a)
All equipment used for the collection and transportation of refuse shall be so designed as to prevent the escape of any refuse therefrom. Such equipment shall be provided with a watertight body designed so as to prevent the escape of any liquid. All surfaces of collection and transportation equipment coming in contact with garbage or organic industrial waste shall be smooth, nonabsorbent and in good repair.
(b)
All equipment used in the collection and transportation of refuse shall be thoroughly washed and treated with an approved insecticide so as to prevent flybreeding or odor nuisance. All refuse spilled during collection or transportation shall be promptly removed by the refuse collector.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 3)
Sec. 42-7. - Refuse disposal.
All refuse accumulating within the city shall be disposed of at a sanitary landfill; provided, however, other methods of disposal may be used with the written permission of the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 4)
Sec. 42-8. - Disposal generally.
No person shall establish or operate any new disposal facility without first submitting plans and specifications to the mayor and council and receiving its written approval as regards disposal site, methods of disposal, adequacy of equipment and supervision, and other pertinent matters. Existing disposal facilities shall be operated in such a manner as to prevent nuisance or menace to the public health.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 4)
Sec. 42-9. - Closure of nonconforming facilities.
The mayor and council shall have the authority to close or cause to be closed, abandoned, improved, repaired or revised, any refuse disposal facility or collection equipment which does not comply with this regulation or which is a nuisance or menace to the public health.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 4)
Sec. 42-10. - Disposal of dead animals.
Dead animals shall be buried deeply enough to prevent any stench and/or nuisance. The responsibility for proper disposal of dead animals shall belong to the owners.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 4)
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 10.
Sec. 42-11. - Private contractor; permit.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any private contractor to collect, scavenge and/or dispose of refuse or to salvage any component thereof within the city, who does not hold an unrevoked permit from the mayor and council. Only private contractors who comply with the requirement of this section shall be entitled to receive and retain such permit. The fee for such permit shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Such a permit may be temporarily suspended by the mayor and council upon the violation by the holder of any of the terms of this section, or revoked after opportunity for a hearing by the mayor and council upon serious or reported violation.
(Ord. of 6-3-1975, § 5)
