DIVISION 2. - SEWER CONSTRUCTION AND ASSESSMENTS

Sec. 32-216. - Compliance with agreements.
The operation of the sanitary sewer system shall remain in compliance with all sanitary sewer usage agreements between the county and the city, as well as between the county and other counties, municipalities and agencies.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 1)
Sec. 32-217. - Sanitary sewer main extensions.
(a)
The county sanitary sewer main extension policy shall apply to the extension or replacement of existing sanitary sewer mains on existing city roads or other dedicated rights-of-way to serve new developments. The city hereby adopts the county sanitary sewer main extension policy by reference as it currently exists and as it may be amended in the future. A developer may request the application of this policy if a project site is not adjacent to an existing main or the existing main is inadequate to serve the proposed development.
(b)
The developer may apply for preapproval of the sewer main extension application with the understanding that such reimbursement shall be made only after the developer has complied with all the requirements of this section. Conversely, the developer may apply for reimbursement after complying with all the requirements of this section and such reimbursement shall be made on approved applications if funds are available for that purpose. Approval of all application requests shall be within the sole discretion of the county or, if designated by agreement, the city.
(c)
Sanitary sewer mains approved and installed under this section shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1)
All materials shall meet the specifications of the county department of watershed management.
(2)
A sanitary sewer main design shall be prepared by and furnished to the county or, if designated by agreement, the city by a registered professional engineer licensed by the state.
(3)
The developer shall contract for the installation of the sewer lines and shall furnish the county and the city a copy of the contract. When the work has been completed according to the specifications and duly inspected by the county or its designee, the developer shall provide as-built drawings and any required easements of the sewer main installation to the county and the city. As-built drawings shall be completed under the direction of an engineer/land surveyor licensed in the state and sealed.
(4)
After the work has been completed and inspected to the satisfaction of the county and, if designated, the city, the developer shall provide a maintenance bond equal to ten percent of the costs of the construction of such facilities. The developer may provide a letter of escrow or letter of credit acceptable to the county and the city in lieu of the maintenance bond required in this section.
(5)
After receiving the maintenance bond, letter of escrow or letter of credit, the county shall reimburse the developer a sum equivalent to 50 percent of the cost of the sewer main materials required to supply the proposed development. An eight-inch main will be considered as the minimum size main required to supply a development of any size. In the event the county's plans for future sewer service call for a sewer main to be installed larger than the size of the main required to supply the development, then the county may:
a.
If the size of sewer main planned by the county is 15 inches or smaller, pay the difference in cost of the materials to install the size main required by the county plans.
b.
If the size of sewer main planned by the county is greater than 15 inches, pay the difference in both the cost of labor and materials to install the size main required by the county plans.
(6)
The developer shall be required to maintain the sanitary sewer lines for a period of 12 months. During this developer maintenance period, the county, or its designee shall make inspections and instruct the developer by letter as to what corrections must be made, if any.
(7)
At the end of the 12-month developer maintenance period, the county and the city shall make a final inspection and notify the developer and the bonding company, if any, of any corrections to be made. If the work is acceptable at this time, the maintenance bond, letter of escrow or letter of credit shall be released pursuant to the county policy.
(8)
If required corrections are not made within 30 days of notice, the county shall have the authority to make these corrections at the expense of the bonding company. In cases where funds are being held under letter of credit or letter of escrow, the cost of making these corrections shall be drawn by the county from these funds, and the developer charged with any costs above the amount of such funds.
(9)
The county shall have the full authority to inspect and test all sanitary sewer mains installed under this section.
(10)
No use shall be made of such systems nor shall the county, or the city, accept such systems until the developer has complied with all the requirements of this section and until satisfactory tests and inspections have been completed.
(11)
In calculating the county participation for material costs, the maximum material costs considered will be the county's contract price for like material.
(d)
Private sanitary sewer extensions will not be accepted for maintenance by the county unless materials used for installation are inspected and approved by the county prior to construction and are found to meet the county specifications and unless the installation was inspected by the county during construction.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 2)
Sec. 32-218. - Submission of petition.
(a)
Whenever the owners, as listed on the latest ad valorem tax digest, of 51 percent or more of the property within any designated area, petition the county for sewer facilities, and this action requires the laying of a lateral sewer, the petition shall be filed with the department. The petition shall be examined to see if the signatures are valid and if it sufficiently describes the services required. Then, the county shall initiate, per its adopted policies, a preliminary engineering survey to make sure that the proper designated area is described. Cost for construction and engineering services are also estimated at this time. The petition would then be advertised, and a public hearing would be held before the county board of commissioners. If the county approves the petition, construction will be programmed.
(b)
All assessments against property and the owners thereof for the construction of sewers shall be liens upon the property by the county or, if designated by agreement, the city from the date of adoption of the resolution authorizing the construction of the sewer lines.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 3)
Sec. 32-219. - Public hearing; public notices.
(a)
When a petition for the construction of a sanitary sewer line has been filed on behalf of a person or when a recommendation for construction has been made by the head of any board or department of the county or the city, then a public hearing will be held before the county board of commissioners. The department shall notify the county board of commissioners of the impending petition. The department shall then give notice to all persons concerned by publication of a notice pursuant to the county policy for placing notices of public hearings for a period of at least 20 days prior to the hearing. The notice shall state the date and location of the proposed public hearing and shall give a general description of the proposed sanitary sewer construction.
(b)
All owners of property abutting the proposed sanitary sewer line who shall be assessed for the cost of construction shall be notified in writing by the county at least 20 days prior to the hearing. All notices pursuant to this section shall be addressed to the owners listed on the latest ad valorem tax digest of the county at the addresses indicated.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 4)
Sec. 32-220. - Notification of abutting property owners of public hearing.
In addition to the published notice of a public hearing on a petition for sanitary sewer construction, all owners of property abutting the proposed sanitary sewer line who shall be assessed for the cost of construction shall be notified in writing by the department at least 20 days prior to the hearing. All notices pursuant to this section shall be addressed to the owners listed on the latest county ad valorem tax digest at the addresses indicated. The records of the county showing evidence of the mailing of the notices shall be prima facie evidence, and failure of the owner of any property concerned to receive a notice shall in no way affect the validity of the proceedings or the assessment. The purpose of this written notice is to furnish the owner with an additional statement of the public hearing.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 5)
Sec. 32-221. - Conduct of hearing.
At the hearing provided for in this division, any person whose property or interests are affected by the proposed sanitary sewer may appear before the county board of commissioners, in accordance with the county rules for same. The decision of the county with respect to the approval or rejection of the proposed sanitary sewer shall be final and conclusive. Any decision by the county in favor of the construction will indicate a public need for the sanitary sewer, and this shall make all matters pertaining to the construction of the sanitary sewer and the assessment of costs against the abutting property owners legal and binding.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 6)
Sec. 32-222. - Procedures after plans and specifications received.
When the county has received plans, specifications and necessary engineering data, the county will determine the names of all property owners affected, and the city will procure the necessary right-of-way and/or easement for construction of the sanitary sewer line as specified. Before final approval of any plans, the county will also ensure that sufficient stub-out connections are designated to adequately serve the territory affected.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 7)
Sec. 32-223. - Performance of construction.
All sanitary sewers will be constructed by the county or by such contractors as the county may designate from time to time. All sanitary sewer construction performed by a private contractor shall be guaranteed against defects in contractor-supplied material and workmanship for a minimum period of one year from the final inspection date. Construction will be under the supervision of the county.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 8)
Sec. 32-224. - Assessments generally.
(a)
After the construction of a sanitary sewer line has been completed, the department shall make up an assessment roll properly describing the sanitary sewer line and containing the names of all owners of abutting property. Each owner's property abutting the sanitary sewer shall be correctly described as it pertains to the construction. The cost of the sanitary sewer shall then be shared among the various property owners on a prorated basis depending on the number of linear feet each has abutting the sanitary sewer line. The actual assessment shall be calculated using a value in dollars and cents per linear foot based on the average cost for construction of all petitioned sanitary sewer lines in the county the previous year. Assessment rates will be approved by the county on an annual basis.
(b)
The minimum assessment shall be for 65 feet, whether or not a sanitary sewer line has to extend that distance to service a property or not.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 9)
Sec. 32-225. - Assessment computations; double-frontage lots, owners previously assessed, residences not totally served by gravity sewer.
(a)
Whenever a tract of land abuts a sanitary sewer line on both the front and the rear, and the tract of land cannot be subdivided into two or more separate lots fronting each of the abutting sewers, then the property shall be assessed only for the side with the greater frontage.
(b)
Several considerations shall be made before determining whether or not a tract of land can be subdivided. If the topography of the land makes it impractical to construct a building on one of the lots, or to provide sanitary sewer service to one of the lots, then the tract of land is not suitable for subdivision.
(c)
Property owners who have contributed to the cost of existing sanitary sewers, whether by private contract, the original subdivisions or previous the county assessment, shall be exempted from current assessment. However, if property owners or previous owners did not contribute to the construction cost of existing sanitary sewers, they shall be assessed in the same manner as any other abutting property owner.
(d)
When all floor levels of a residential unit are not served by the sewer by gravity, then the property will be assessed a percentage of the total assessment equal to a percentage of the total number of fixtures in a house or building that are actually served by the sewer main by gravity.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 10)
Sec. 32-226. - Assessment of corner property.
Corner property shall be assessed under this division in the following manner:
(1)
Where the sanitary sewer abuts the property only on the front, the property shall be assessed for the amount of frontage.
(2)
Where the sanitary sewer abuts the property on both the front and side, the property shall be assessed for the frontage; the first 150 feet of the side abutting shall be exempted from assessment; the next 100 feet of the side abutting shall be subject to assessment; and the remainder of the side abutting beyond 250 feet shall be treated as outfall sewer and not assessed.
(3)
Where the sanitary sewer abuts the property on the side only, the property shall be assessed for the frontage; the first 150 feet abutting on the sides shall be exempted; the next 100 feet of the sides abutting shall be subject to assessment; and the remainder of the side abutting beyond 250 feet shall be treated as outfall sewer and not assessed.
(4)
Where the sanitary sewer abuts property that is pie-shaped or has an unusual frontage and that frontage is greater than the largest normal-shaped and assessed property, the property will be assessed for the same number of front feet as the largest, normal-shaped assessable property in the petitioned area. The county shall have the responsibility for determining what properties are to be considered pie-shaped or unusual.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 11)
Sec. 32-227. - Outfall sewers.
(a)
In this section, the term "outfall sewer" means a section of sanitary sewer line, either in a public street or across private property, which normally does not provide direct service to the abutting property. Usually, the outfall sewer is a section of a trunk sewer providing service to several street sanitary sewers serving properties, and its cost is not included in the assessment rate. However, when an outfall does provide direct service to the abutting property, the cost of constructing the outfall shall be assessed against the abutting property owners.
(b)
Property owners desiring connection to outfall sewers may do so with concurrence of the director and shall pay an assessment based on the current year linear foot rate prior to their obtaining a sewer connection permit.
(c)
Exceptions to the provisions of this section may be granted by the department upon application.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 12)
Sec. 32-228. - Payment of assessments.
Whenever a sanitary sewer line has been constructed in accordance with this division and the cost thereof has been assessed against the benefiting property, then the respective owners shall be notified of the assessment, and they shall be required to pay in cash, within 60 days, to the county finance department, pursuant to the intergovernmental agreement with the city, the amount of the assessment. If the amount of the assessment causes a financial burden on the owner, then the owner may extend the assessment and pay it in annual installments. However, no less than one-fifth of the total assessment shall be paid within 60 days after notification.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 13)
Sec. 32-229. - Extension of payments.
If the property owner requires an extension in the payment of an assessment under this division, then the owner must execute in writing an extension agreement with the county stating that the owner shall pay a 20-percent down payment and, in a maximum of four equal annual installments, the amount of the assessment, less the cash down payment put forth on the due date. The extension agreement must be executed on or before the due date of the assessment. In the agreement, the owner must acknowledge the fact that throughout, the extension remains legal and valid, and all liens remain in force. The unpaid portion of the assessment shall bear interest at a rate specified by the DeKalb County Code. Interest charges shall be assessed from the due date and shall be included in the installments. The agreement shall be negotiable in form, and the county will reserve the right to transfer or assign it to third parties. If ever the owner defaults in the payment of any installment, then the entire assessment shall immediately become due and payable.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 14)
Sec. 32-230. - Executions for failure to pay.
Should the owner of any property against which a sanitary sewer assessment has been levied fail to execute a payment extension agreement as provided in this article, or fail to pay the assessment in cash within 60 days, or fail to pay the remainder of the assessment after default on extension, then an execution shall be issued in rem against the property and in personam against the owner in the name of the county board of commissioners. The execution shall be recorded on the general execution docket in the office of the clerk of the county superior court and shall include sums to cover principal, interest and administrative costs. All adjoining property owned by the same party or parties shall be covered in the execution.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 15)
Sec. 32-231. - Assessments to be liens.
All assessments against property and the owners thereof for sanitary sewer construction shall be liens upon the property from the date the county authorizes construction. All assessments shall be posted in an improvement docket and kept on file with the county finance department. Properties assessed shall be described in the docket in a manner sufficient to identify them with the section of the sanitary sewer they abut.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 16)
Sec. 32-232. - Assessments after previous exemptions.
(a)
The department may grant property abutting sanitary sewer lines an exemption from assessment. Often this occurs when private property is used, through negotiation of an easement, in the laying of a sanitary sewer line. Property thus exempted can be connected to the sewerage system at any future date without being liable for assessment.
(b)
If, however, the property was exempted for another reason, such as the elevation of the property, and it is improved at a later date to a condition whereby sanitary sewer service can be attained and is required, then, if this occurs within 25 years after the completion of the sanitary sewer, the property is subject to assessment under the provisions of this division. If the improvement occurs more than 25 years after construction, the property may not be assessed.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 17)
Sec. 32-233. - Service connections.
(a)
After sanitary sewer lines have been constructed and tied into the county sewerage system, each abutting property owner who has contributed to the costs of construction through assessment may desire a service connection. To make such a connection, the property owner shall hire, at the owner's expense, a plumber or contractor to lay pipe from the building drain to the stub-out provided. Before this service line can be connected to the sanitary sewer, the owner shall secure a permit from the county by paying a plumbing fee and a sewer tap fee. If the service line then passes the inspection criteria of the county, the owner may have it connected into the sewerage system.
(b)
When no stub-out or other means of connection is provided so as to service the building drain, it shall be the responsibility of the county to provide a stub-out for the property owner at no cost if the property owners, present or past, have contributed to the cost of the existing sewer either by the original subdivision or by the county assessment.
(c)
When a property owner desires connection to the sewerage system after construction of the sanitary sewer line, and no owner of the property has contributed to the costs of constructing the sanitary sewer line, the owner must pay a proportionate cost of construction based on the current year linear foot rate prior to obtaining a sewer connection permit.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 2, § 18)
Secs. 32-234—32-259. - Reserved.
