DIVISION 8. - PHOSPHORUS CONTROL

Sec. 32-440. - Declaration of policy.
O.C.G.A. § 12-5-27.1 provides that whenever a local government entity is required by the environmental protection division to reduce phosphorus in its wastewater being discharged into the waters of the state, such local government entity shall pass an ordinance mandating the retail sale of low phosphorus household laundry detergent as part of its phosphorus reduction process. It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the city to encourage the use of clean phosphate-free household laundry detergents and to prohibit the sale of household laundry detergents which contain more than 0.5 percent phosphorus by weight. The city adopts the county's findings that such use and sale will be a cost-effective way to reduce the amount of phosphorus in wastewater discharge so as to protect the state's rivers and lakes downstream; promote health, safety, and welfare; and prevent injury to human health, plant and animal life, and property. It is vital to the health, well-being, and welfare of present and future inhabitants of the city that these sources be protected against contamination and pollution.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 7, § 1)
Sec. 32-441. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Household laundry detergent.
(1)
The term "household laundry detergent" means a laundering cleaning compound in liquid, bar, spray, tablet, flake, powder, or other form used for domestic clothes-cleaning purposes.
(2)
The term "household laundry detergent" shall not mean:
a.
A dishwashing compound, household cleaner, metal cleaner, degreasing compound, commercial cleaner, industrial cleaner, or other substance that is intended to be used for nonlaundry cleaning purposes;
b.
A detergent used in dairy, beverage, or food processing cleaning equipment;
c.
A phosphorus acid product, including a sanitizer, brightener, acid cleaner, or metal conditioner;
d.
A detergent used in hospitals, veterinary hospitals or clinics, or health care facilities or in agricultural production;
e.
A detergent used by industry for metal cleaning or conditioning;
f.
A detergent manufactured, stored, or distributed for use or sale outside of the state;
g.
A detergent used in any laboratory, including a biological laboratory, research facility, chemical laboratory, and engineering laboratory; or
h.
A detergent used in a commercial laundry that provides laundry services for hospitals, health care facilities, or veterinary hospitals.
Phosphorus means elemental phosphorus.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 7, § 2)
Sec. 32-442. - Sales prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at the retail level a household laundry detergent which contains greater than 0.5 percent phosphorus by weight and is intended to be used for domestic clothes-cleaning purposes.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 7, § 3)
Sec. 32-443. - Penalties for violation.
Any person who violates any provision of this division shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the maximum fine allowed under this Code. Each sales transaction shall constitute a separate offense.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 7, § 4)
Sec. 32-444. - Civil action.
In addition to the penalty provided in section 32-443, the county and/or the city may maintain an action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or restrain any violation of this division.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 7, § 5)
Sec. 32-445. - Individual right to damages.
Nothing in this division shall be construed to abridge, limit or otherwise impair the right of any person to damages or other relief on account of injuries to persons or property arising out of a violation of this division and to maintain any action or other appropriate proceeding thereof.
(Comp. Ords. 2008, ch. 25, art. III, div. 7, § 6)
Secs. 32-446—32-473. - Reserved.
