ARTICLE II. - COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Boards and commissions, § 4-103.

Sec. 11-16. - Created.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the municipality which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the city planning commission, hereinafter referred to as the planning commission, is hereby created and established as authorized by state laws. The planning commission shall be organized and empowered as set out in this article.
Sec. 11-17. - Membership; terms of members; vacancies; compensation.
(a)
Membership. The planning commission shall consist of five (5) members, who shall be residents of the city appointed by the mayor and council of the city.
(b)
Terms. The terms of the members shall be for four (4) years, except that in the appointment of the first planning commission under the terms of this section, the first member shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year, the second member shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, the third member shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years, and the remaining members shall be appointed for terms of four (4) years each.
(c)
Vacancies. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor and council of the city, who shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing.
(d)
Compensation. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Code 1976, § 3-701)
Sec. 11-18. - Election of officers; rules of procedure; organization.
The planning commission shall elect a chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman shall be one (1) year with eligibility for reelection. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the municipality. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record. The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the state planning agency, city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts received, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the mayor and council of the city.
(Code 1976, § 3-701)
Sec. 11-19. - Powers and duties.
From and after the time when the planning commission shall have organized and selected its officers and shall have adopted its rules of procedure, the planning commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act of 1957.
(Code 1976, § 3-701)
Secs. 11-20—11-30. - Reserved.
