ARTICLE V. - FINANCE[4]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-299. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31.
Secs. 2-300—2-316. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUDGETS AND AUDITS

Sec. 2-317. - Annual operating budget.
modified
(a)
Time for submission. On or before August 15 of each year, the city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the city manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget, and such other comments and information as may be deemed pertinent.
(b)
Filing; open for public inspection. The operating budget, the capital improvements budget, the budget message, and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
Sec. 2-318. - Amendment to budget.
The city council may amend the operating budget proposed by the city manager, except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this Code and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year. The total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
Sec. 2-319. - Adoption of operating budget; appropriations ordinance.
The city council shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than 15 days prior to the start of each year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by said date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the then current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly, until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity as set out in the budget preparation ordinance.
Sec. 2-320. - Levy of taxes.
Following adoption of the operating budget, the city council shall levy, by ordinance such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expense of the general government of the city.
Sec. 2-321. - Changes in appropriations.
The city council may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting or special or emergency meeting called for such purposes.
Sec. 2-322. - Annual capital improvements budget.
On or before August 15 of each year, the city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing year. The city council shall have the power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The city council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget or the budget as amended by the mayor and city council.
Sec. 2-323. - Adoption and amendment of capital improvements budget.
The city council shall adopt by ordinance the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than January 31 of each year. No appropriations provided for in a prior capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriations were made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, the city manager may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year accompanied by his recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance.
Sec. 2-324. - Annual audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal government may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this Code. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing costs to the public.
Secs. 2-325—2-351. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CONTRACTING AND PURCHASING

Sec. 2-352. - Contract requirements.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless it is in writing and made or authorized by the city council and such approval is entered in the city council journal of proceedings.
Sec. 2-353. - Purchasing agent.
modified
(a)
Office; term; assignment. There is hereby created the office of purchasing agent for the city. The term of the office shall be for an indefinite period or until a successor is appointed and installed. Unless otherwise provided by the council, the city manager shall fill the position of purchasing agent.
(b)
Duties. The duties of the purchasing agent shall be to ensure that all the steps of the purchasing policies and procedures, as prescribed in this division, are followed and completed; that the prices for items ordered are the best that can be obtained in the local market or elsewhere; that the necessary forms and reports are prepared and filed; and such other duties as may be necessary to ensure efficient purchasing practices or responsibilities as may be prescribed by the mayor or the city council, or both.
(c)
Purchase requisition forms; mandatory procedure. All requests for purchases will be submitted to the purchasing agent on a requisition form. All nonemergency requisitions shall be submitted not less than two weeks before the service or item is required. No officer or employee of the city shall handle purchasing operations for any materials or services except through the purchasing agent; no bid shall be honored or awarded if this method is not followed. It shall be considered a breach of duty on the part of any officer or employee of the city who ignores proper purchasing procedures and does not follow the policies prescribed by this division.
(d)
Open records; compliance with procedure. It shall be the responsibility of the purchasing agent to make all purchases in accordance with the provisions of this division. Record of all bids for goods, services or materials of any kind or character purchased by the city shall be subject to inspection at any time by the public.
Sec. 2-354. - General purchasing procedures.
Unless otherwise provided herein, and subject to the local preference provided in this division, the following provisions shall control all purchases made by the city:
(1)
Purchases of property or services valued at $3,000.00 or less, shall be negotiated, authorized and executed as directed by the city manager and approved by the city council; provided, however, that the maximum amount of any one purchase approved by department heads and the purchasing agent will not exceed the listed monetary values:
EXPAND
Electrical department $3,000.00
Water and sewer department $1,500.00
Police department $1,500.00
Sanitation $1,500.00
Street $1,500.00
  (2)
Purchases of property or services valued at $3,001.00 or more shall be approved by resolution of the mayor and council and shall be negotiated and authorized only after the purchasing agent has solicited three or more competitive bids, with the exception of emergency purchases as provided herein.
(3)
Whenever an item is purchased under a state contract, such purchase is exempt from the bid requirements of this section; that is, acceptance is at the state price and terms from the vendor who has been awarded the contract for purchase by the state as to the item being purchased for the year in which the item is being purchased.
(4)
Any sole source purchase of $2,500.00 or more must be approved by the city council, except for emergency purchases as provided herein.
(5)
All emergency purchases of goods and services requiring the expenditure of $2,500.00 or more shall be approved by the mayor, or in his absence, the mayor pro tem, and three councilmembers. If necessary, the purchasing division may secure permission of the mayor, or mayor pro tem, and three councilmembers by telephone.
(6)
All purchases of professional services shall be exempt from the bid requirements of this section unless otherwise directed by the mayor and council. Professional services means those services provided by persons defined by the laws of the state to be professionals (accountants, clergy, physicians, engineers, lawyers, dentists, etc.), or any other services (in that provision of these services involves extended analysis; exercising discretion and independent judgment in their performance; and an advanced and specialized type of knowledge, expertise, or training customarily acquired either by prolonged course of study or equivalent experience in the field or both).
Sec. 2-355. - Determination of selected bidder.
In determining the most responsible bidder, in addition to price, the following shall be considered:
(1)
The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the contract;
(2)
Whether the bidder can perform the contract within the time specified, without delay or interference;
(3)
The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and efficiency of the bidder;
(4)
The quality of performance under previous contracts;
(5)
The previous compliance by the bidder with laws and ordinances relating to the contract;
(6)
Sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the contract and provide the service;
(7)
The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or contractual services to the particular use required;
(8)
The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service for the use of the contract under consideration;
(9)
The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid;
(10)
The local preference provided in this division; and
(11)
Such other factors as appear to be pertinent to either the bid or the contract under all of the circumstances involved.
Sec. 2-356. - Policy of nondiscrimination.
In the award of contracts for the sale or purchase of goods or services, the city shall not discriminate against minority-owned businesses, women-owned businesses or handicapped-owned businesses.
Sec. 2-357. - Preference to state suppliers.
In the purchase of, and in contracting for, any city supplies, materials, equipment, and printing, and in the award of contracts following competitive bidding, the city's purchasing agent shall give preference as far as may be reasonable and practicable, and not exceeding five percent of the purchase amount in additional costs, to such materials, supplies, equipment, and printing as may be manufactured or produced in this state. It is the intention of this section that the city use, insofar as is practicable, state products and state labor; provided, however, that in giving such preference, no sacrifice or loss in price or quality shall be permitted.
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-60.
Secs. 2-358—2-387. - Reserved.
