ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-206. - Department heads.
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of the department or agency. Department heads shall be appointed as provided by the city Charter. They shall be under the direct supervision of the city manager.
Sec. 2-207. - Boards.
The city council shall establish such boards as it deems necessary or advisable, in accordance with the procedure provided by the city Charter. Except as otherwise provided by this Code or by law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairperson and one member as vice chairperson, and may elect as its secretary one of its members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this Code or the city Charter, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of his duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules, and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Secs. 2-208—2-237. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 2-238. - Established.
The city council, in order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city that will, in accordance with existing and future needs best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, has established the planning commission.
Sec. 2-239. - Composition; term; compensation.
The planning commission shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the city, appointed by the mayor and city council. The terms of the members shall be for three years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor and city council who shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
Sec. 2-240. - Chairperson; secretary.
The planning commission shall elect a chairperson from among its members. The term of the chairperson shall be one year with eligibility for reelection. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the municipality.
Sec. 2-241. - Rules of procedure; meetings.
The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meetings. All meetings of the planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record.
Sec. 2-242. - Personnel; contracts; finances.
The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the Middle Flint Area Planning and Development Commission, city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the mayor and city council.
Sec. 2-243. - Powers and duties.
The planning commission shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities conferred upon it by the Georgia Constitution, state statute, the city Charter, this Code, and as time to time lawfully extended by ordinance of the city council.
Secs. 2-244—2-264. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COUNTY RECREATION COMMISSION

Sec. 2-265. - Established.
The city, in cooperation with the county board of commissioners of roads and revenues, has established the county recreation commission.
State Law reference— Authority for joint recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-4.
Sec. 2-266. - Composition; appointment; compensation.
The recreation commission shall consist of seven persons serving without pay appointed from the two local governing bodies. The county shall appoint persons to fill the positions identified as Post I, Post III, and Post V. The city shall appoint persons to fill the positions identified as Post II and Post IV.
Sec. 2-267. - Term of office; vacancies.
The term of office for each commission member shall be five years, or until his successors are appointed. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled by the mayor or chairperson of the county governing body, depending on the post being filled. The appointment for a vacancy shall be for the remaining term of the post filled.
Sec. 2-268. - Officers.
The commission shall elect annually a chairperson and such other officers as the commission deems necessary.
Sec. 2-269. - Bylaws, rules, and regulations.
The recreation commission shall have power to adopt bylaws, rules, and regulations for the proper conduct of recreation for the city.
Sec. 2-270. - Powers and duties.
The recreation commission shall provide, conduct and supervise public playgrounds, playfields, indoor recreation centers, and other recreation facilities owned or controlled by the city. It shall have the power to conduct any form of recreation or cultural activity that will employ the leisure of the people in a wholesome or constructive manner. It may conduct such activities on properties under its own control, on public properties with the consent of the authorities thereof, and on private properties with the consent of the owners.
Sec. 2-271. - Recreation director; other personnel.
The recreation commission shall have the power to appoint or designate someone to act as recreation director who is trained or properly qualified for the work, and such other personnel as the commission deems proper.
Sec. 2-272. - Budget; annual report.
Annually, the recreation commission shall submit an annual budget to the city and the county governing authorities for approval. The recreation commission shall make an annual report to the city and such other reports as from time to time may be requested.
Sec. 2-273. - Donations.
In addition to the funds appropriated by the governing body, the commission may accept any grant or devise of real estate or any gift or bequest of money or other personal property or any donation to the applied principal or income, for either temporary or permanent use for playgrounds, or recreation purposes, but if the acceptance thereof for such purposes will subject the governing body to additional expense for improvements, maintenance, or renewal, the acceptance of any grant or devise of real estate shall be subject to the approval of the governing bodies. Money received for such purposes, unless otherwise provided by the terms of the gift or bequest, shall be deposited in the funds of the recreation commission.
Sec. 2-274. - Fees for recreational activities.
The commission may also charge a nominal fee for a variety of activities, which may not be included in the original budget request. All monies received by appropriation or otherwise shall be deposited to the account of the recreation commission.
Sec. 2-275. - Liability of city.
The city shall not be liable for accidents that occur through the conducting of the recreation program.
Secs. 2-276—2-298. - Reserved.
