Chapter 114 - RESOURCE PROTECTION STANDARDS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 114-1—114-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WETLANDS PROTECTION

Sec. 114-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Jurisdictional wetlands means an area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetlands determination means a delineation of jurisdictional wetlands boundaries by the act of the United States Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 USC 1344, as amended.
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States, excepting those activities exempted in section 404 of the federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.A. 1344).
Wetlands means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophilic vegetation. The term "wetlands" generally includes swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetlands map means the current United States Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory Maps for Long County and the City of Ludowici, which ever applies.
Wetlands protection district means all wetlands within the jurisdiction of Long County or the City of Ludowici, as indicated on the wetlands map; provided, however, that the wetlands map does not necessarily represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands with Long County or the City of Ludowici, and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the United States Army Corps of Engineers as required in section 404 of the federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.A. § 1344), as amended. Any local government action under this article does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 16.1)
Sec. 114-20. - Permitting.
(a)
Prior to the approval of any subdivision or manufactured housing park development by the governing authority, the applicant must offer documentation that the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers or their designated representative has made a wetland determination on the development proposal in the context of its physical location.
(b)
Applications for a subdivision or manufactured housing park that encompass wetlands or are within 200 feet of wetlands, regardless of an Army Corps of Engineers 404 permit determination, shall include a separate site plan drawn at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, and cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale, and vertical scale must be shown on cross-sectional drawings.
(2)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site, for a distance of 100 feet.
(3)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(4)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 100 feet at contour intervals no greater than two feet.
(5)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(6)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 16.2)
Sec. 114-21. - Design standards.
(a)
Structures shall be 200 feet from wetlands or 36 inches above flood stage.
(b)
Roadways shall be elevated at 18 inches above wetlands.
(c)
Elevation of structures. Structures shall be 18 inches above finish floor elevation with a minimum of six inches in natural soil or a certified compaction test by a licensed soil scientist.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 16.3)
