ARTICLE VIII. - VARIANCES; EXCEPTIONS

Sec. 118-564. - Variances.
When, due to a particular hardship experienced by an owner of a tract of land, such as inadequate size, shape, drainage, etc., it is impractical for a developer to comply with the interpretations of the design requirements of these regulations, the planning board shall be authorized to recommend variances to such requirements, provided the intent and purpose of these regulations are not violated. Such variations, and the reasons for granting them, shall be considered for approval by, and entered into the minutes of, the governing authority. The conditions for granting the variance by the governing authority/designee are as follows:
(1)
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to this particular piece of property because of its size, shape or topography;
(2)
The application of the standards to this particular property would create an unnecessary hardship;
(3)
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and
(4)
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of the regulations.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, ยง 6.22.1)
Sec. 118-565. - Exceptions.
In order to promote the public welfare and enhance the safety and health of the public, it may be in the best interests of the governing authority/designee to modify or provide exceptions to certain development and design standards. The planning board shall be authorized to consider exceptions to such requirements, provided the intent and purpose of these regulations are not violated. All exceptions, and the reasons for granting them, shall be entered into the minutes of the planning board and also the approving governing authority.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, ยง 6.22.2)
Sec. 118-566. - Special developments.
Exceptions to design standards may be considered, when due to particular and unique proposed development standards such as: equestrian developments, developments proposed to follow low impact design to improve the quality and reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff, developments which promote enhanced walkability and bicycling, and those developments which meet a majority of, or all of, the quality development guidelines in article VII, division 9 of this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, ยง 6.22.2.1)
Sec. 118-567. - Private street exception.
Private streets may be considered as an exception by the planning board and may be permitted by the planning board with the approval of the county if they meet all of the following conditions:
(1)
Private streets shall meet the requirements of this chapter regarding preliminary and final plat, as well as receiving all required permits and construction inspection of infrastructure.
(2)
Private streets in subdivisions shall be platted and constructed according to the design standards established for public streets.
(3)
All private streets and street name markers shall be maintained by the owners of the property within such subdivisions and the governing authority has no responsibility whatsoever for their maintenance and repair until and unless improved to approved street standards and dedicated and accepted by the governing authority.
(4)
All lots or parcels abutting any private street subsequently sold following this exception shall include a disclosure that the street is not a public street, and the street shall be maintained by the owners of the property within such subdivisions and the governing authority has no responsibility whatsoever for their maintenance and repair until and unless improved to approved street standards and dedicated and accepted by the governing authority.
(5)
A property owners' association must be created to maintain all private streets, and be filed with the clerk of superior court, and, as a minimum, shall provide for: mandatory and automatic membership in the property owners' association before any individual properties are sold; all owners to have equal access and right to use all shared private facilities; perpetual and continued maintenance of the private streets and any open space; bond instruments to ensure maintenance of streets and common areas; bond or tax liability in the case of default; the method of assessment of dues; maintenance and related costs; and restoration in the event of damage or destruction.
(6)
Where this section requires or allows the preservation and maintenance of private streets and other open space through a property owners' association, and if the property owners' association fails to maintain the private streets and common property in a reasonable condition, the governing authority shall serve written notice upon the association and upon the individual property owners, setting forth the manner in which the organization has failed to maintain common open space and private streets in a reasonable condition. The notice shall include a demand that these deficiencies of maintenance are corrected within 30 days of the notice. If the deficiencies are not corrected within 30 days, the governing authority, in order to preserve the taxable values of the properties within the development and to prevent the common open space and private streets from becoming a public nuisance, may enter upon the common open space and private streets and maintain it for one year and thereafter until the association is prepared to provide maintenance. The cost of this maintenance by the governing authority shall be assessed against the maintenance bond established and funded by the property owners' association or, if the bond has been allowed to lapse, the cost shall be assessed against all properties within the developments that have a right of enjoyment of the private streets, and shall become a lien upon the properties.
(7)
A perpetual maintenance bond with the governing authority as the beneficiary is required for the completed paving, curb and gutter, sidewalks, drainage, water and sewer facilities, and other required improvements. The bond shall be written in the amount of 25 percent of the construction cost of the work. The amount of the maintenance bond shall be reviewed and approved by the governing authority's engineer as sufficient to cover maintenance. The bond may be released or reduced only if the governing authority accepts any or all improvements for maintenance. If at any time the property owners' association fails to make prompt repairs or fails to maintain the road and other improvements to the satisfaction of the governing authority, the governing authority may inform the association and utilize bond funds or guarantee funds as needed.
(8)
Private streets shall always remain open for police, fire, ambulance, and other vehicles of all government agencies.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, ยง 6.22.2.3)
