ARTICLE II. - INTERPRETATION AND AMENDMENTS

Sec. 118-41. - Interpretation.
In their interpretation and applications, the provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general welfare. These regulations shall be construed broadly to promote the purposes for which they are adopted.
(1)
Public provisions. These regulations are not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of law except as provided in these regulations. Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, the provision that is more restrictive or imposes higher standards shall control.
(2)
Private provisions. These regulations are not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction, provided that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant, or other private agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern. Where the provisions of the easement, covenant, or private agreement or restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive or standards that are higher than the requirements of these regulations, or the determinations of the governing authority in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these regulations, and the private provisions are not inconsistent with these regulations or the determinations made under these regulations, then the private provisions shall be operative and supplemental to these regulations and the determinations made under the regulations.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.8.1)
Sec. 118-42. - Saving provision.
These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or as waiving any right of the city or county under any section or provision existing at the time of adoption of the ordinance from which these regulations are derived, or as vacating or annulling any rights obtained by any persons, firm, or corporation by lawful action of the city or county, except as shall be expressly provided for in these regulations.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.8.3)
Sec. 118-43. - Amendments.
For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare, the governing authority may, from time to time, propose amendments to these regulations which shall then be approved or disapproved by the governing authority at a public meeting following public notice. Before enacting any amendment to this subpart, the governing authority shall hold a public hearing within 30 days after the date of the submission of a request for an amendment. A public notice shall be given at least 15 days prior to the public hearing in the legal organ of the city or county.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.8.4)
Secs. 118-44—118-74. - Reserved.
