ARTICLE VI. - REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 118-212. - Installation; exceptions.
A well designed subdivision or development includes improvements that provide for the safety and security of all citizens, includes adequate open spaces for recreation and circulation, preserves and protects wetlands, streams and marshes, and promotes the overall public good. A subdivision means little to a prospective lot buyer until such buyer can see actual physical transformation of raw land into lots with all necessary improvements provided. Likewise, a subdivision is not an asset to the community until the necessary improvements have been installed and provide adequate levels of service. In order that prospective lot purchasers may get useable products, and new subdivisions may be an asset rather than a liability to the community, the subdivider shall install and/or pay for the improvements required by these regulations necessary to serve the subdivision prior to the approval of the final plat. Any request for an exception to these required improvements must be documented by the developer, and address the reason for the exception and why it meets the spirit and intent of these regulations.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1)
Sec. 118-213. - Natural gas.
When gas lines are located in a street right-of-way, where possible, such lines shall be located outside the portion of the street to be surfaced as per the typical roadway detail to prevent having to cut into the paved surface to serve abutting properties.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.1)
Sec. 118-214. - Water supply.
All lots, tracts or parcels must be served by a water source. The water source may be an individual water system, a municipal/county water system, or a community water system. The water source must be approved by the governing authority, the health department and, when necessary, the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources. All required improvements must meet the requirements of these agencies. Individual wells shall be installed in accordance with the rules and administrative regulations of the county health department.
(1)
Subdivisions located in any municipality, or near or adjacent to an existing municipal/county water supply, shall connect to that municipal/county water supply, unless the municipality/county certifies that it will not supply water to the proposed development.
(2)
Subdivisions not located within and served by a municipality/county owned water system and located adjacent to an existing private water supply may connect to that water supply provided that the owner agrees to the connection in writing, that the proposed system is approved as mentioned above, and that the existing system is capable of providing an adequate supply of water.
(3)
When the water main is located in the street to serve the abutting lots, a water service line shall be stubbed out to the property line to serve each lot before the street is surfaced. The location of each service line shall be marked clearly on the record drawings and submitted to the governing authority.
(4)
All developments shall address provisions for fire protection. For developments with municipal/county or community water systems, appropriate water sources, water flows and pressures must be provided for fire protection and be approved by the county's fire coordinator and building official. For developments of more than ten lots, where the minimum lot size is one or more acres, and all lots are served by individual private water systems, dry hydrants or other means of fire protection shall be considered. For developments with individual water systems:
a.
With ten or fewer lots where the minimum lot size is one or more acres; or
b.
When the minimum lot size for the development is three or more acres, no provision for community or central fire protection is required, but individual building protection (such as sprinkler systems) is encouraged.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.2)
Sec. 118-215. - Sanitary sewerage.
Amended by Ordinance of 03-02-2021 (1)
Subdivisions located in any municipality, or near or adjacent to an existing municipal/county sanitary system, shall connect to that system, unless the municipality/county certifies that it will not provide sanitary sewerage services.
(1)
In other areas not served by municipal/county systems or other public systems, a community water system and a community sanitary sewerage system shall be installed in a subdivision with more than 50 lots or with potential for more than 50 lots. A variance from the community sanitary sewerage system requirement for subdivisions with more than 50 and less than 100 lots may be granted by the governing authority if the lot sizes are one acre or more, and the soil conditions are able to support the required number of on-site sewage disposal units. The variance request must be accompanied by a detailed soils report by a qualified professional attesting to the conditions of the site. For subdivisions with 100 or more lots or with potential for more than 100 lots, a variance from the requirement for a community water and sewer system may be granted by the governing authority only if the lots are five acres or more, and if unique conditions meeting the requirements in section 118-564exist, and the soil conditions are able to support the required number of on-site sewage disposal units. The variance request must be accompanied by a detailed report by a qualified soils professional and a qualified engineer attesting to the conditions of the site. If a sanitary sewerage system is installed in a subdivision, the proposed sewerage system shall be installed in accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the local governing authority's engineer/designee, and the requirements of the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
(2)
Individual septic systems, if approved, shall be installed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications and in accordance with the rules and administrative regulations of the local governing authority and the county health department.
(3)
Subdivisions located near or adjacent to a private sewerage system may connect to that system provided that the owner agrees to the connection in writing, that the extension is reviewed and approved as provided in subsection (1) of this section, and that the existing system is capable of providing adequate treatment and disposal.
(4)
When the sewer line is located in a street right-of-way and it will be necessary to cut into the street surface to serve the abutting lots, a connection shall be stubbed out to the property line to serve each lot prior to surfacing the street. The location of each service line shall be marked clearly on the record drawings and submitted to the governing authority.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.3)
Sec. 118-216. - Sewage disposal systems.
Amended by Ordinance of 03-02-2021 (1)
Prior to the construction of any community sewerage disposal system such as private septic tanks, an oxidation pond or other facility, the location, size, plans, and specifications of such a facility shall be approved by and be in accordance with the rules and administrative regulations of the governing authority, the county health department, and the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.4)
Sec. 118-217. - Curbs and gutters.
Concrete curbs and gutters shall be installed along new streets and roadways. Existing public roadways that are included in or are adjacent to the development or subdivision shall be developed and improved to the same curb and gutter and sidewalk standards as new streets. All concrete curbs shall be installed in accordance with the approved plans and standard specifications. All streets designated and shown shall be constructed and surfaced with the requirements of this article and with the details, drawings and specifications as published by the governing authority. A copy of the standard specifications will be kept on file at the planning board. Higher standards than those required by the standard specifications may be required by the governing authority to provide adequately for unusual soil conditions, extraordinary traffic volume or other abnormal conditions. Curbs and gutters may not be required by the governing authority when the subdivider provides for "low impact design" and/or "clustering" of development to address runoff in a way that improves the quality and reduces the quantity of runoff. Approval of the developer's plans by the reviewing engineer and the governing authority is required.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.5)
Sec. 118-218. - Street grading and surfacing (local streets).
Street grading, base preparation and surfacing of local streets shall be carried out in accordance with the approved plans and specifications. Grading, base preparation, and surfacing of local collection and arterial streets shall be installed in accordance with the standard specifications. Approval of the developer's plans by the county engineer/designee and governing authority is required.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.6)
Sec. 118-219. - Storm drainage.
An adequate drainage system, including necessary open ditches, pipes, culverts, storm sewers, storm drains, drop inlets, bridges, and other necessary appurtenances shall be installed by the subdivider in accordance with the plans, standard specifications, and soil erosion and sedimentation provisions of chapter 18, article II. Approval of the developer's plans by the county engineer/designee and governing authority/designee is required.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.7)
Sec. 118-220. - Signs.
Street name signs shall be approved by the code enforcement office/designee and installed at all intersections within a subdivision. Traffic control signs shall be installed in accordance with the Uniform Manual of Traffic Control Devices. The governing authority/designee shall approve the location and design.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.8)
Sec. 118-221. - Topsoil.
Topsoil shall not be removed from residential lots or used as spoil, but shall be redistributed so as to provide at least six inches of cover on the lots and at least four inches of cover between sidewalks and curbs, and shall be stabilized by seeding or planting.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.9)
Sec. 118-222. - Sidewalks.
Sidewalks shall be installed in all approved subdivisions in accordance with section 118-319. For residential subdivisions, sidewalks may be installed on individual lots at the time of home construction and made a condition of the certificate of occupancy. However, all sidewalks must be installed within 24 months of final plat approval.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.10)
Sec. 118-223. - Nonpotable re-use water system.
A nonpotable re-use water system shall be installed in all approved subdivisions and other planned developments where re-use water will be available in accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the governing authority/designee.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.11)
Sec. 118-224. - Street lights and poles.
Installation of street lights and poles shall be done by the developer, and shall be approved by the appropriate electric utility company and the governing authority/designee. A street lighting plan, developed by the appropriate utility company, shall be submitted with the preliminary plat.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.12)
Sec. 118-225. - Electric and other utilities.
All utilities and systems (electric, telephone, cable, etc.) shall be placed underground by the developer, and shall be installed as approved by the appropriate utility company and the governing authority/designee. A variance from this requirement may be granted by the governing authority/designee if unique conditions meeting the requirements in section 118-564 exist.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.13)
Sec. 118-226. - Other required improvements.
Following a detailed review of the impact of the proposed subdivision or other planned developments described in section 118-474 on the infrastructure systems of the governing authority, other improvements, either on or off the site under development, may be required to be installed or paid for by the developer. The governing authority staff shall determine and approve the need and cost for all other required improvements and shall submit a report to the governing authority for approval.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.14)
Sec. 118-227. - Minimum corner clearance.
(a)
Roadway classification intersecting clearance (in linear feet as measured from the curb return of the intersecting street to the first curb return of the driveway) is as follows:
(1)
Arterial to arterial: 250***.
(2)
Arterial to collector: 125***.
(3)
Arterial to local: 50.
(4)
Collector to all: 50.
(5)
Local to all: 50.
(b)
Properties which do not meet the above minimum distance requirements may be approved as "right in - right out" only, provided that no driveway may be located closer than 50 linear feet from the curb return of the intersecting street.
***It must be proven by an engineering traffic study that left-hand turn storage is sufficient for both the intersection and the proposed full access driveway. If more intersection clearance distance is required based on the study, then that shall be the minimum corner clearance distance. In no event shall it be less than the minimums stated herein.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.1.15)
Sec. 118-228. - Installation guarantee.
In lieu of requiring the completion of all required improvements prior to the acceptance of a final plat, the governing authority may, at its discretion, accept a bond or guarantee from the subdivider, whereby the subdivider shall guarantee to complete all required improvements by this Code or otherwise specified by the county engineer/designee or his designated representative, to the satisfaction of the local governing authority. Remaining primary improvements must be completed within six months from the date of final plat approval by the governing authority. Remaining secondary improvements must be completed within two years from the date of final plat approval by the governing authority. The amount of the guarantee shall be 115 percent of the construction cost of the required improvements. The developer's engineer shall estimate cost for construction or a copy of the construction contract shall be provided. The amount of the guarantee must be approved as adequate to the local governing authority or representative. The time of guarantee shall be 12 months and shall automatically renew until released by the governing authority/designee. The guarantee shall be in the form of one of the following alternatives:
(1)
Performance bond.
(2)
Irrevocable letter of credit and its accompanying agreement.
(3)
Cash bond and escrow agreement.
(4)
Such other security arrangements as may be approved by the governing authority's attorney.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.4)
Sec. 118-229. - Inspections.
All subdivisions within the territorial jurisdiction of the governing authority shall be inspected and approved by the governing authority's engineer and/or their authorized representative. Sufficient inspections shall be made to ensure compliance with the specifications set forth in these regulations. A registered engineer, employed by the developer, shall also certify in writing to the governing authority that he has inspected each and all phases of the development and finds all construction, including, but not limited to, the installation of all drainage systems, streets, sidewalks, water, nonpotable reuse water lines, and sewerage systems to be in compliance with the approved development plans, specifications and standard specifications as set forth in these regulations.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.5)
Sec. 118-230. - Acceptance of improvements.
At the time of final plat approval, any completed public improvements required as a condition of final plat approval may be accepted by the governing authority. Upon completion of the remaining public improvements, if any, the governing authority may accept the public improvements provided that roadway improvements deemed acceptable for public use and maintenance shall be adopted by resolution of the governing authority in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 and recorded in the minutes of said governing authority. Each portion of these improvements must have also been inspected and approved by the engineer or his designated representative, and/or the governing authority. All primary and or secondary improvements must also have been constructed in accordance with the standard specifications. Prior to acceptance of any primary and/or secondary public improvements, the governing authority must obtain the engineer's certificate referred to in section 118-229 and a maintenance bond referred to in section 118-232.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.6)
Sec. 118-231. - Building permits.
No building permit in a subdivision shall be issued and no building other than a farm building shall be erected on any lot unless the street giving access to the lot upon which the building is proposed to be placed has been accepted, or shall have otherwise been approved, by the governing authority.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.7)
Sec. 118-232. - Maintenance bond.
(a)
A maintenance bond (warranty bond) is required for acceptance of any completed public primary and or secondary improvements. The bond shall be written in the amount of 15 percent of the construction cost of the work. The amount of the maintenance bond shall be reviewed and approved by the designated engineer as sufficient to cover maintenance. The maintenance bond shall guarantee the work for a period of one year, from the date of acceptance of the improvements by the local governing authority as shown in section 118-230.
(b)
During the period of the one-year guarantee, any maintenance, replacement or repair required will be the responsibility of the developer. The required improvements will be inspected by the governing authority/designee at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the maintenance bond. Any required maintenance shall be completed prior to release of the bond. If maintenance is not completed, the bond will be forfeited to the governing authority. Upon expiration of the one-year period, the governing authority shall consider for acceptance the public primary and secondary improvements for maintenance pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 as may be amended from time to time. Prior acceptance by the governing authority shall not relieve the developer of responsibility for subsequent failures occurring within the period of the one-year guarantee. If at any time during the one-year period the developer fails to make prompt repairs or fails to maintain the road to the satisfaction of the governing authority, the governing authority may inform the developer and utilize bond funds or guarantee funds as needed.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19.8)
Sec. 118-233. - Dedications.
After the adoption of a major street plan as provided by law, the county or other public authority shall not accept, lay out, open, improve, grade, pave, or light any street or authorize the laying of water mains, sewers, connections, or other facilities or utilities in any street within the territorial jurisdiction of the planning board unless such street has been accepted or opened as, or shall otherwise have received the legal status of, a public street prior to the attachment of the planning board subdivision jurisdiction, or unless such street corresponds in its location and lines with a street shown on a subdivision plat approved by the planning board and the local governing authority. The governing authority/designee may locate and construct or may accept any other street if the ordinance or other measure for such location and construction, or for acceptance, is first submitted to the planning board for its approval, and if disapproved by the planning board is approved by the governing authority. A street approved by the board upon submission, or by the governing body having appropriate jurisdiction or constructed or accepted the governing authority after disapproval by the board, shall have the status of an approved street as though it had originally been shown on a plat approved by the planning board or on a plat made and adopted by the planning board.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.19)
Sec. 118-234. - Record drawing electronic submission requirement.
Upon completion of the installation and inspection of the required improvements in a subdivision/development, an electronic copy showing all record drawing information of all required improvements must be submitted to the governing authority. The information must be reviewed and accepted by the local governing authority prior to the final approval of the required improvements in a subdivision/development. Submitted drawings must be compatible and be coordinated with that information submitted in accordance with section 118-167, final plat electronic copy submission requirement. Technical details for submission of the electronic copy and layering convention are on file at the county code enforcement office. The release of any performance bonds or letters of credit, as well as final approval and acceptance of improvements by the local governing authority, shall not be given until the required as-built plans are submitted and approved by the governing authority.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.18.6)
Sec. 118-235. - Maintenance of common areas and private facilities.
(a)
If any development includes private facilities and common areas, a property owners' association must be created to maintain all private facilities and areas, and be filed with the clerk of superior court and, as a minimum, shall provide for: mandatory and automatic membership in the property owners' association before any individual properties are sold; all owners to have equal access and right to use all shared private facilities; perpetual and continued maintenance of the private facilities and any open space; tax liability in the case of default; the method of assessment of dues; maintenance and related costs; and restoration in the event of damage or destruction.
(b)
Where this section requires or allows the preservation and maintenance of private facilities and other open space through a property owners' association, and if the property owners' association fails to maintain the common property in a reasonable condition, the governing authority shall serve written notice upon the association and upon the individual property owners, setting forth the manner in which the organization has failed to maintain common open space and private streets in a reasonable condition. The notice shall include a demand that these deficiencies of maintenance are corrected within 30 days of the notice. If the deficiencies are not corrected within 30 days, the governing authority, in order to preserve the taxable values of the properties within the development and to prevent the common open space and private facilities from becoming a public nuisance, may enter upon the common open space and private facilities and maintain it for one year and thereafter until the association is prepared to provide maintenance. The cost of this maintenance by the governing authority shall be assessed against the properties within the developments that have a right of enjoyment of the common open space and private facilities, and shall become a lien upon the properties.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.23.5)
Sec. 118-236. - Guideline for minimum guarantees.
The following is a guideline for minimum guarantees that can be accepted:
(1)
The applicant shall be the developer.
(2)
The beneficiary shall be the county.
(3)
The governing authority must be able to draw on the letter of credit when a signed statement from the governing authority is shown to the lending institution. Such statement must certify that the developer is in default of the accompanying agreement. The statement must also show the amount of money due as a result of such default.
(4)
Credit must be automatically extended for an additional period of one year from the present and each future expiration date unless the governing authority is notified not less than 45 days in advance of an expiration date. The letter of credit shall not be withdrawn or reduced until all required improvements are completed and accepted by the local governing authority.
(5)
The governing authority must be able to draw the outstanding balance of money upon presentation of a signed statement by the governing authority as a cash bond to secure continued adherence to the terms of the agreement. This clause would be utilized in the event the lending institution chooses not to extend the expiration date and improvements are not complete.
(6)
The lending institution will receive the original letter of credit marked "Cancel" upon tender of payment or upon completion of improvements to the satisfaction of the governing authority.
(7)
The lending institution must agree to be responsible for the governing authority's court costs and attorney fees in the event the governing authority initiates a suit under the letter of credit.
(8)
The letter of credit must state that the letter of credit is specifically governed by the uniform commercial code (or similar code) in force in the state.
(9)
An example of an irrevocable letter of credit is available in the office of the zoning administrator. Other types of bonding, guarantees, sureties or other similar security arrangements may be accepted if approved by the governing authority's attorney.
(Ord. of 2-3-2015, § 6.23.8)
Secs. 118-237—118-265. - Reserved.
