Chapter 12 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Regulations continued in effect.
All ordinances, resolutions, motions and orders pertaining to civil defense, emergency management and disaster relief, which are not in conflict with this chapter, are continued in full force and effect. Such ordinances, etc., are on file in the office of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. of 7-9-2012, § 1)
Sec. 12-2. - Emergency management and response powers.
(a)
Declaration of local emergency.
(1)
Grant of authority. In the event of an actual or threatened occurrence of a disaster or emergency, which may result in the large-scale loss of life, injury, property damage or destruction or in the major disruption of routine community affairs, business or governmental operations in the County and which is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary assistance by Federal, State and local departments and agencies to supplement the efforts of available public and private resources, the Chair of the Board of Commissioners may declare a local emergency for Montgomery County. The form of the declaration shall be similar to that provided in subsection (b) of this section.
(2)
Request for State assistance. Consistent with a declaration of local emergency, the Chair may request the Governor to provide assistance, provided that the disaster or emergency is beyond the capacity of the County to meet adequately and State assistance is necessary to supplement local efforts to save lives and protect property, public health and safety, or to avert or lessen the threat of a disaster.
(3)
Continuance. The declaration of local emergency shall continue until the Chair finds that emergency conditions no longer exist, at which time, the Chair shall execute and file with the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners a document marking the end of the state of emergency. No state of local emergency shall continue for longer than 30 days, unless renewed by the Chair. The Board of Commissioners may, by resolution, end a state of local emergency at any time.
(4)
Effect of declaration of emergency.
a.
Activation of emergency operations plan. A declaration of emergency by the Governor or a declaration of local emergency by the Chair shall automatically activate the County Emergency Operations Plan and shall be the authority for deployment of personnel and use of any forces to which the plan applies and for use or distribution of any supplies, equipment, materials, and facilities assembled, stockpiled or arranged to be made available pursuant to the Georgia Emergency Management Act or any other laws applicable to emergencies or disasters.
1.
The County Emergency Management Agency (EMA) Director shall have the legal authority to exercise the powers and discharge the duties conferred upon the Emergency Management Agency, including the implementation of the emergency operations plan, coordination of the emergency responses of public and private agencies and organizations, coordination of recovery efforts with State and Federal officials, and inspection of emergency or disaster sites.
2.
In responding and conducting necessary and appropriate investigations, the Director or his designee is authorized to enter at a reasonable time upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating and inspecting sites involved with emergency management functions. The Director is authorized to execute a right of entry and/or agreement to use property for these purposes on behalf of the County; however, any such document shall be later presented for ratification at a meeting of the Board of Commissioners.
3.
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the County who requests entry for purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials. Nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while that individual is in the process of carrying out his official duties.
b.
Emergency powers. Following a declaration of emergency and during the continuance of such state of emergency, the Chair is authorized to implement local emergency measures to protect life and property or to bring the emergency situation under control. In exercising this authority, the Chair may cause to become effective any of the following sections of this chapter as appropriate: section 12-5 (registration of building and repair services) to become effective if the Governor declares a state of emergency; and section 12-6 (closed or restricted areas and curfews). If any of these sections are included in a declaration of local emergency, the same shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners and shall be in effect until the declaration of local emergency has terminated.
c.
Authority to waive procedures and fees. Pursuant to a declaration of emergency, the County Board of Commissioners is authorized to cause to be effective any of the subsections of section 12-4 as appropriate. The implementation of such subsections shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk of the County Board of Commissioners.
d.
Additional emergency powers. The Chair of the County Board of Commissioners shall have, and may exercise for such period as the declared emergency exists or continues, the following additional emergency powers:
1.
To direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the population from any stricken or threatened area, for the preservation of life or other disaster mitigation, response or recovery;
2.
To prescribe routes, modes of transportation and destinations in connection with evacuation;
3.
To suspend or limit the sale, dispensing or transportation of alcoholic beverages, firearms, explosives and flammable liquids and substances;
4.
To make provision for the availability and use of temporary emergency housing, emergency shelters and/or emergency medical shelters;
5
To transfer the direction, personnel or functions of any county departments and agencies or units thereof for the purpose of performing or facilitating emergency services;
6.
To utilize all available resources of the County and subordinate agencies over which the County has budgetary control as reasonably necessary to cope with the emergency or disaster;
7.
To utilize public property when necessary to cope with the emergency or disaster or when there is compelling necessity for the protection of lives, health and welfare; and/or the property of citizens;
8.
To suspend any law, Code provision or regulation prescribing the procedures for conduct of County business, or the orders, rules or regulations of any County agency, if strict compliance with any ordinance, resolution, order, rule or regulation would in any way prevent, hinder or delay necessary action in coping with the emergency or disaster, provided that such suspension shall provide for the minimum deviation from the requirements under the circumstances and further provided that, when practicable, specialists shall be assigned to avoid adverse effects resulting from such suspension;
9.
To provide benefits to citizens upon execution of an intergovernmental agreement for grants to meet disaster-related necessary expenses or serious needs of individuals or families adversely affected by an emergency or disaster in cases where the individuals or families are unable to meet the expenses or needs from other means, provided that such grants are authorized only when matching State or Federal funds are available for such purposes;
10.
To perform and exercise such other functions, powers and duties as may be deemed necessary to promote and secure the safety and protection of the civilian population, including individuals with household pets and service animals prior to, during and following a major disaster or emergency.
(b)
Form of declaration of local emergency. Upon the declaration of local emergency, an official "Declaration of Local Emergency," in substantially the same form set forth below, shall be signed and filed in the office of the County Clerk and shall be communicated to the citizens of the affected area using the most effective and efficient means available. The declaration shall state the nature of the emergency or disaster, the conditions that require the declaration and any sections of this chapter which shall be in effect. The following measures also be implemented: [If deemed appropriate, select items from Section 12-2(a)(4)c. or d. or such other measures as appropriate.]
Time: ___________ Date:___________.
Chairperson, Montgomery County Board of Commissioners"
Signature of Chairperson ___________
(c)
Contracts with municipalities. In addition to the normal agreements embodied in the County's emergency operations plan for mutual emergency assistance, the Board of Commissioners may contract with any municipality for the administration of an emergency response program.
(Ord. of 7-9-2012, § 2)
Sec. 12-3. - Enforcement and remedies.
(a)
Law enforcement. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 38-3-4, the County Sheriff's Office shall be authorized to enforce the orders, rules and regulations contained in this chapter and/or implemented by the Chair or local governing authority during a declared emergency.
(b)
Penalties. Failure to comply with any of the requirements or provisions of the regulations contained in this chapter, or with any Code section, order, rule or regulation made effective by the Chair or local governing authority upon or after the declaration of an emergency shall constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter. Any person who violates any provision in this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, for each violation. Each person assisting in the commission of a violation shall be guilty of separate offenses. Each day during which a violation or failure to comply continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(c)
Injunctive relief. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 38-3-5, in addition to the remedies prescribed in this section, the EMA Director is authorized to obtain an injunction to restrain violation of laws, Code sections, orders, rules and regulations which are contained in the Georgia Emergency Management Act and/or this Code, and/or which are implemented by the local governing authority during a declared emergency.
(d)
Enforcement. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, this chapter may be enforced by the County Sheriff's Office, the County EMA Director and the Chairperson of the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. of 7-9-2012, § 3)
Sec. 12-4. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
County business. Upon declaration of an emergency or disaster by the Governor or Chair of the Board of Commissioners, the affairs and business of the County may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual location, within or outside of the County, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the County, all actions taken by the Board of Commissioners shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the County. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Public works contracts. Upon declaration of an emergency or disaster by the Governor or Chair of the County Board of Commissioners, the Board of Commissioners may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that the emergency must be of such nature that immediate action is required and that the action is necessary for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare. Any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the County as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-91-22(e).
(c)
Purchasing. Upon declaration of an emergency or disaster by the Governor or Chair of the County Board of Commissioners, the purchasing ordinances, regulations or policies may be suspended. County officials shall continue to seek to obtain the best prices during the state of local emergency.
(d)
Code enforcement. Upon declaration of a state of emergency or disaster by the Governor or the Chair of the County Board of Commissioners, the Board of Commissioners may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Code of Ordinances of the County, or any portion thereof, where the emergency is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required, such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare, and such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(e)
Fees. Upon declaration of a state of emergency or disaster by the Governor or the Chair of the County Board of Commissioners, the Board of Commissioners may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" include fees or rates charged by the County for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" does not include fees collected by the County on behalf of the State or Federal Government or fees charged by the County pursuant to a State or Federal statute or regulation.
(f)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency or disaster by the Governor or Chair of the County Board of Commissioners, the Board of Commissioners or its designees may issue temporary permits for mobile homes, trailers, recreational vehicles or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district, even though not otherwise permitted by the Development Code, while the primary dwelling is being repaired, provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the County Health Department and Development Services. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of a continuing hardship, and in the discretion of the Board of Commissioners or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period of up to an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit and/or extension, the temporary dwelling must be removed.
(Ord. of 7-9-2012, § 4)
Sec. 12-5. - Registration of building and repair services.
(a)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 38-3-56, before building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to any real property, including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures or fixtures within an area in the unincorporated area of the County designated in a declared emergency or disaster, any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity must register with the County Development Services Department and secure a building permit that is posted at the work site. Each day any such entity does business in the unincorporated areas of the County without complying with this chapter constitutes a separate offense.
(b)
The cost of registration fees in a declared emergency or disaster is fixed at a per annum charge. The administrative fee shall be in an amount as established by the Board of Commissioners from time to time. Registration is nontransferable. The cost of the emergency building permit shall be equal to the cost for a building permit under existing regulations.
(1)
Applicant's Social Security number or Federal employer identification number;
(2)
If applicant is a corporation, the state and date of incorporation;
(3)
Tag registration information for each vehicle to be used in the business;
(4)
List of cities and/or counties where the applicant has conducted business within the past 12 months;
(5)
Georgia sales tax number or authorization;
(6)
Georgia business license number, if required;
(7)
Copy of license from the Secretary of State, if required.
(c)
Effective date. This section shall become effective only upon a declaration of emergency by the Governor and a local declaration stating this section is in effect. Unless otherwise specified in the declaration of emergency or otherwise extended by the Board of Commissioners, the provisions of this section shall remain in effect during the state of emergency and for a subsequent recovery period of three months.
(Ord. of 7-9-2012, § 5)
Sec. 12-6. - Closed or restricted areas and curfews during emergency.
(a)
To preserve, protect or sustain the life, health, welfare or safety of persons, or their property, within a designated area under a declaration of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person to travel, loiter, wander or stroll in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, lanes, parks or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots or any other place during a declared emergency between hours specified by the Chair until the curfew is lifted.
(b)
To promote order, protect lives, minimize the potential for looting and other crimes, and facilitate recovery operations during an emergency, the Chair shall have discretion to impose re-entry restrictions on certain areas. The Chair shall exercise such discretion in accordance with the County emergency operations plan, which shall be followed during emergencies.
(c)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons acting in the following capacities:
(1)
Authorized and essential law enforcement personnel;
(2)
Authorized and essential health care providers;
(3)
Authorized and essential personnel of the County;
(4)
Authorized National Guard or federal military personnel;
(5)
Authorized and essential firefighters;
(6)
Authorized and essential emergency response personnel;
(7)
Authorized and essential personnel or volunteers working with or through the County Emergency Management Agency (EMA);
(8)
Authorized and essential utility repair crews;
(9)
Citizens seeking to restore order to their homes or businesses while on their own property or place of business;
(10)
Other authorized and essential persons as designated on a list compiled by EMA, the Director of Public Safety and/or the Sheriff of the County.
(d)
Enforceability. This section shall be enforced by officers of the law enforcement personnel approved to provide aid and assistance during the emergency. Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit a law enforcement officer from bringing other charges under State law.
(e)
Effective date. This section shall become effective only upon the signing of a declaration of emergency, stating this section is in effect.
(Ord. of 7-9-2012, § 6)
Sec. 12-7. - Regulations continued in effect.
All ordinances, resolutions, motions and orders pertaining to civil defense, emergency management and disaster relief that are not in conflict with this chapter are continued in full force and effect. Such ordinances, etc., are on file in the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. of 7-9-2012, § 7)
Sec. 12-8. - Standard for incident management.
The County adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under Federal Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 5 and the Unified Command System as established under O.C.G.A. § 38-3-57 as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents and directs all incident managers and response organizations in Montgomery County train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Res. No. 19-11-01, (Att.), 11-12-2019)
Secs. 12-9—12-32. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - E-911 SYSTEM
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 12-33—12-51. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - 9-1-1 CHARGES ON TELEPHONE SERVICES AND WIRELESS ENHANCED 9-1-1 CHARGES OTHER THAN PREPAID WIRELESS SERVICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Div. 2, § 12-53, has been amended by the editor, inasmuch as it appears to have been superseded by Res. No. 18-11-03, §§ 1—4, adopted Nov. 19, 2018. Said div. 2, § 12-53, pertained to imposing a monthly E-911 charge and was derived from Code 2003, ch. 9, art. II; and a resolution adopted June 1, 1993.

Sec. 12-52. - Definitions.
Unless specified otherwise in this division, all terms shall be defined in the same manner as specified in O.C.G.A. § 46-5-122.
(Res. No. 18-11-03, § 1, 11-19-2018)
Sec. 12-53. - 9-1-1 charges on monthly services.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-133(a), there is imposed a monthly 9-1-1 charge upon each telephone service, subscribed to by a telephone subscriber, whose exchange access lines are in the areas served or which could be served by the 9-1-1 service. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-l34(a)(i)(A), the amount of such 9-1-1 charge shall be $1.50 per month per telephone service provided to the telephone subscriber.
(b)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-133(a), there is imposed a monthly wireless enhanced 9-1-1 charge upon each wireless telecommunications connection, other than a connection for prepaid wireless service, subscribed to by a telephone subscriber whose place of primary use is within the geographic area that is served by Montgomery County, Georgia, or that would be served by Montgomery County, Georgia, for the purpose of such an emergency 9-1-1 system. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(a)(2)(A), the amount of such enhanced wireless 9-1-1 charge shall be $1.50 per month per wireless telecommunications connection provided to the telephone subscriber.
(c)
The 9-1-1 charges under this section shall commence March 20, 2019.
(Res. No. 18-11-03, § 2, 11-19-2018)
Sec. 12-54. - Collecting and remitting of 9-1-1 charges.
All such 9-1-1 charges collected by service suppliers shall be remitted to the Georgia Department of Revenue, as the contracted collection partner of the Georgia Emergency Communications Authority, at the times and in the manner provided by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-185, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-186, and any other Georgia Department of Revenue or Georgia Emergency Communications Authority rule or regulation adopted pursuant to Article 12 of Chapter 13 of Title 38 of the O.C.G.A. and Chapter 13 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Administrative Procedures Act."
(Res. No. 18-11-03, § 3, 11-19-2018)
Sec. 12-55. - Deposit and use of proceeds.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134, all proceeds received by Montgomery County from 9-1-1 charges imposed by this division shall be deposited in the Emergency Telephone System Fund maintained by the County; kept separate from general revenue of the County; and used exclusively for the statutorily authorized purposes.
(Res. No. 18-11-03, § 4, 11-19-2018)
Secs. 12-56—12-78. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - 9-1-1 CHARGES ON PREPAID WIRELESS SERVICES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Div. 3, § 12-80, has been amended by the editor, inasmuch as it appears to have been superseded by Res. No. 18-11-04, §§ 1—4, adopted Nov. 19, 2018. Said div. 3, § 12-80, pertained to imposing a charge for E-911 service on wireless telecommunication devices and was derived from Code 2003, ch. 9, art. III; and a resolution adopted Feb. 6, 2007.

Sec. 12-79. - Definitions.
Unless specified otherwise in this division, all terms shall be defined in the same manner as specified in O.C.G.A. § 46-5-122.
(Res. No. 18-11-04, § 1, 11-19-2018)
Sec. 12-80. - 9-1-1 charges on monthly services.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134.2(b)(1), there is imposed a prepaid wireless 9-1-1 charge and the amount of such 9-1-1 charge shall be $1.50 per retail transaction occurring within the jurisdiction of public safety answering point.
(b)
The 9-1-1 charges under this section shall commence January 1, 2019.
(Res. No. 18-11-04, § 2, 11-19-2018)
Sec. 12-81. - Collecting and remitting of 9-1-1 charges.
All such 9-1-1 charges collected by service suppliers shall be remitted to the Georgia Department of Revenue as the contracted collection partner of the Georgia Emergency Communications Authority, at the times and in the manner provided by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-185, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-186, and any other Georgia Department of Revenue or Georgia Emergency Communications Authority rule or regulation adopted pursuant to Article 12 of Chapter 13 of Title 38 of the O.C.G.A. and Chapter 13 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Administrative Procedures Act."
(Res. No. 18-11-04, § 3, 11-19-2018)
Sec. 12-82. - Deposit and use of proceeds.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134, all proceeds received by Montgomery County from 9-1-1 charges imposed by this division shall be deposited in the Emergency Telephone System Fund maintained by the County; kept separate from general revenue of the County; and used exclusively for the statutorily authorized purposes.
(Res. No. 18-11-04, § 4, 11-19-2018)
Secs. 12-83—12-103. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - ENHANCED 911 ADDRESSING

Sec. 12-104. - Enactment and short title.
The Board of County Commissioners hereby enacts and adopts the following division, which shall be known and cited to as the "Montgomery County Enhanced 911 Addressing Ordinance."
(Ord. of 4-1-2008, § 1)
Sec. 12-105. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official means a person whom the Commissioners have appointed to administer and enforce the provisions of this division. Such official may also be referred to as "Code Enforcement Official".
(Ord. of 4-1-2008, § 2)
Sec. 12-106. - Purpose.
The purpose of this division is to improve the County E-911/Emergency Communication System and to provide for a uniform County wide addressing system with respect to street or house numbers assigned to all residences and principal buildings and businesses within the County. This will assist fire and rescue companies, law enforcement agencies, the United States Postal Service, parcel delivery companies, utility companies, tax appraisal, public works, planning and the general public in the timely and efficient provision of services to residents and businesses in the County.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008, § 3)
Sec. 12-107. - Display required.
Every location furnished with a 911 address outside of any incorporated area must display that address so that it is visible from the public roadway. Mobile home parks and apartment complexes, including duplex dwelling structures, shall also be required to have each individual pad, lot number or apartment number displayed in a readily visible manner and in compliance with the requirements of this division. Such lot, pad or apartment numbers shall be in sequence unless directional signs are provided for numbers not in sequence.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008, § 4)
Sec. 12-108. - Method of display.
(a)
Assigned E-911 address numbers may be fixed to the house, apartment, business or other location itself, provided that such house, apartment, business or other location is not more than 60 feet from the centerline of the roadway or the road or street in front of such location, and the number must be readily visible from the street or road by persons traveling along the street or road in each direction. E-911 address numbers may also be placed on mailboxes or signs located on the premises in front of the location, as long as the mailboxes or signs are on the same side of the road as the house, apartment, business or other building or location. If the addresses or numbers are displayed on signs, such signs must be of a durable type, and must be located not more than 60 feet from the centerline of the street or road in front of the property. The numbers on such signs shall be readily visible from the street by persons traveling along the street in each direction. If not on signs or mailboxes, the address must be located within ten feet of the access from the public road. If the road in front of the location is unpaved, said sign should be located not more than 45 feet from the edge of the road nearest the location.
(b)
If the house, apartment, business or other building or location to be numbered is more than 60 feet from the centerline of the street or roadway in front of the property, or if for any reason a street address number affixed to the location would not be readily visible from the street or roadway by persons traveling along the street or roadway in each direction, then the 911 address numbers shall be displayed on a sign or mailbox in the premises next to the public roadway in front of the structure, and complying with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008, § 5)
Sec. 12-109. - Size, condition of addresses.
Assigned 911 addressed numbers and/or characters shall be a minimum of three inches in height and 1½ inches in width. Address numbers and characters for businesses shall be a minimum of four inches in height and two inches in width. All numbers or characters shall be reflective on a contrasting background so as to be clearly visible. It is recommended to use white reflective numbers and/or characters on a green background.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008, § 6)
Sec. 12-110. - Proper maintenance.
It shall be the responsibility of each property owner to properly maintain his E-911 address sign. Tall grass or bushes are to be kept cut or trimmed so as to not obstruct said signs. Also, any faded or missing numbers or characters shall be replaced so that the location may be located easily and at all times by emergency personnel.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008, § 7)
Sec. 12-111. - Duty of owner; notification and enforcement.
(a)
The obligation of complying with the provisions of this division shall be upon the owner of the property. Failure to comply shall constitute a violations article of this article. Upon such violation, notice shall be given the owner of the property, or his agent, specifying the nature of such violation, and requiring that such violation be remedied and brought into compliance within ten days after receipt of such notice. Notification shall be made by the designated County Building Official.
(b)
Any property owner who does not comply with this article shall be in violation of this article, and said violation shall result in a penalty of not more than $100.00 plus the cost of enforcement and prosecution. Said prosecution will be pursued through the Magistrate Court. The designated County Building Official shall be responsible for enforcement of this provision.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, damage, alter or deface any posted E-911 address sign in the County. Violators shall be subject to prosecution. Upon conviction, the violator will be liable of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 plus the cost of enforcement and prosecution. Said prosecution shall be pursued through the Magistrate Court.
(Ord. of 4-1-2008, § 8)
Secs. 12-112—12-135. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - ESTABLISH E-911 SERVICE

Sec. 12-136. - E-911 Service established.
The County Board of Commissioners establishes an E-911 service to be operated in the County. The Board of Commissioners authorizes the Sheriff of the County to hire an E-911 director and qualified staff to manage and operate the E-911 service. This includes establishing procedures and policies to operate the E-911 service. The County Board of Commissioners will act as the fiscal agent for the E-911 service. The E-911 service shall have its own budget separate from the Sheriff's Office. Management of the E-911 service will be responsible for submitting an annual operations and maintenance budget for the Board of Commissioners to consider and adopt. The Board of Commissioners recommends the E-911 Director to establish an advisory team for the purpose of hearing complaints and making suggestions on improving service. Team members shall be at the E-911 Director's discretion.
(Ord. of 3-10-2014)
