ARTICLE III. - BUILDINGS

Sec. 26. - Fire limits; building construction.
The council of said city shall have the full power and authority to lay out a fire district in said city, and from time to time enlarge, change or make smaller the same, as to them may seem meet and proper; to prescribe when and how, and of what material, and [any] building or structure may be built in said fire limits; to prescribe of what material the roof may be made, how thick, and how high the walls shall be, how thick, and of what material, and how high the chimneys or flues shall be made, and generally to do all things that may be necessary to prevent fires in said fire district. They shall have authority to require all persons whomsoever to submit to them for approval all plans and specifications of all buildings or structures before same are commenced to be erected or built within said fire limits, and by appropriate ordinances prescribe penalties for the failure so to do. They shall have power to order any building to be so arranged as to make it more safe from fire, and they shall have the right to change, remove or repair any chimney or flue within said fire limits that may endanger the property of another, and to assess the cost of the same against the owner.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 38)
Sec. 27. - Condemnation, removal of buildings; collection of cost.
The council shall have power and authority by ordinance or resolution to condemn as a nuisance and to remove any burned or untenantable buildings in said city, and to assess the entire cost of said removal against the property on which said building is located and against the owner thereof. They are hereby empowered to enforce the payment of said assessment for the removal of said buildings by execution against the property and the owner thereof, which said execution shall be issued and levied like executions for taxes under existing ordinances, or such as may hereafter be made applicable to the subject, and said property shall be sold in the same manner and shall be subject to all the incidents of purchase by the city and redemption by the owner as provided by section 92-4401 of the Code of Georgia of 1933 [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359]; provided, however, that to an execution issued under the provisions of this section the defendant shall have the right to file an affidavit denying the whole or any part of the amount for which the execution is issued is due, and the reason why same is not due, which amount so admitted shall be paid before the affidavit is received, and said affidavit so received shall be returned to the Superior Court of Colquitt County and there tried, and the issue determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all the pains and penalties provided for in cases of illegalities filed for delay.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 39)
State Law reference— Sales for municipal taxes, redemption of property sold, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359.
