ARTICLE XI. - PUBLIC PROPERTY

Sec. 111. - Public parks, streets, alleys, sidewalks, crosswalks, drains, gutters; eminent domain.
The council shall have full and complete control of and authority over the public parks, streets, alleys, sidewalks, crosswalks, drains and gutters in said city and shall have full power and authority to lay out, open, vacate, close, abolish, alter, curb, pave and keep in good order and repair public parks, streets, alleys, sidewalks, crosswalks, drains and gutters in said city, and shall have full power and authority to condemn property for the purpose of opening and laying out new streets and alleys, and for widening, straightening, or otherwise changing the streets, sidewalks, or alleys, and grading the streets, sidewalks or alleys of the city; and whenever the council shall desire to exercise the power and authority granted in this section, it may be done, whether the land sought to be condemned is in the hands of control of the owner, trustee, executor, administrator, agent, guardian, or other person, in the manner provided by sections 36-301 et seq., Code of Georgia 1933 [O.C.G.A. § 22-1-6 et seq.], and the amendment thereto.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 30; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 3023, § 2)
Sec. 112. - Sidewalk, etc., maintenance, repair; assessment of costs.
(1)
The council of said city shall have full power and authority, in their discretion, to pave, curb, gutter, remove or repair, or otherwise permanently improve any of the sidewalks of said city, with whatever material they may think best, and in any manner they may see fit. That in order to carry into effect that section they may assess any part or all of the cost of improving such sidewalks, including all necessary curbing, gutter, and other expenses therewith connected, on the land and the owners thereof abutting the sidewalk so paved or improved according to the frontage owned by them thereof; and the council is hereby authorized and empowered to pass all necessary ordinances to carry out the provisions of this section.
(2)
Said city shall have power and authority by ordinance to grade, pave, macadamize or improve, for travel or drainage any of the streets, alleys or ways of said city, and to assess any part or all of the cost of such grading, paving, macadamizing or improvement against the owners of the property abutting on each side of the streets, alleys or ways so graded, paved, macadamized or improved, according to the frontage owned by each on such streets, alleys or ways, and said city shall have power and authority to grade, pave, macadamize and otherwise improve, as it shall deem proper, the width of two feet on said side of the tracks of any street railway company, or steam railway company, that may run, now or hereafter, through or across the streets, alleys or ways of said city, and to assess the entire cost of such improvement against such street railway company or steam railway company, and the same shall be enforced and collected by execution as is provided in paragraph (3) of this section.
(3)
The said City of Moultrie is hereby empowered to enforce the payment of the assessments provided for by paragraphs (1) and (2) of this section by execution against the abutting property owners and the abutting property, which said execution shall be issued and levied like executions for taxes under existing ordinances, or such as may hereafter be made applicable to the subject, and said property shall be sold in the same manner, and shall be subject, to all the incidents of purchase by the city and redemption by the owner, etc., as is provided by section 92-4401 of Code of Georgia of 1933 [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359]; provided, however, that to an execution issued under the provisions of this section the defendant shall have the right to file an affidavit denying that the whole or any part of the amount for which the execution is issued is due, and the reason why same is not due, which amount so admitted to be due shall be paid before the affidavit is received, and said affidavit shall be received for the balance, and said affidavit so received shall be returned to the Superior Court of Colquitt County, and there tried and the issue determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all the pains and penalties provided for under cases of illegalities filed for delay.
(4)
When any property of Colquitt County abuts upon any sidewalk in said city, the said City of Moultrie shall have power and authority to pave, curb, remove, or repair the same and assess the whole cost of the same against the county, according to frontage, and when such property abuts upon any street, alley, or way that is graded, paved, or otherwise improved by the said City of Moultrie, said city shall have power and authority to assess against said Colquitt County, its proportionate part of any part of all of the cost of such grading, paving or improving, according to frontage, and the method of collection, in case of refusal to pay, shall be by suit against the county commissioners of Colquitt County in some court of competent jurisdiction.
(5)
One publication of the ordinance or ordinances providing for the improvements mentioned in this section, in the newspaper in Colquitt County in which the sheriff's advertisements are published, shall be sufficient notice to abutting property owners, or street railway companies or steam railway companies having tracks on the street, alleys or ways to be improved, of the contents and provisions of such ordinances, and of the fact that such improvements are to be made.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1458, § 32; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1448), § 9)
