Chapter 42 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; land development ordinance and subdivision regulations, ch. 26; manufactured homes, ch. 30.
State Law reference— Probate court's jurisdiction involving the removal of obstructions from roads, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.1; damaging, injuring or interfering with utilities, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 et seq.; state, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; state grants for construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.; inspection of and reports on roads and bridges by county police, O.C.G.A. § 36-8-6; authority to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 42-1—42-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARADES, DEMONSTRATIONS, ASSEMBLIES AND PICKETING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Preventing or disrupting lawful procession, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-34; authority to regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(3); funeral processions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-76; operation of motorcycles and motor vehicles in parades, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-7.

Sec. 42-31. - Permit requirements; application.
Any person, persons or group desiring to stage a parade, demonstration, or assembly or engage in picketing, in the unincorporated portions of the county, shall make application for a permit to the board of commissioners not later than ten days before such proposed activity is intended to be staged or carried out. Such application shall be filed with the board of commissioners, who shall forward the application to the sheriff. Such permit shall be granted by the sheriff, but the sheriff or chairman of the commissioners shall be empowered to determine and reasonably restrict the time and duration of the proposed activity, the number of units or automobiles to be involved, the number of persons to participate in such activity, the streets or locations where such activity shall be allowed, so as not to impair the safety and convenience of the public generally, after giving due consideration to such factors. In the absence of the sheriff, such duties and powers hereby delegated to the sheriff may be performed and exercised by the chairman of the board of commissioners or his designee.
(Res. No. 94-12, § 1, 9-6-1994)
Sec. 42-32. - Application and permit required for each activity.
An application and permit shall be required for each such activity, provided, however, only one application and permit shall be required for each proposed parade, demonstration, assembly, or picketing site and course of picketing.
(Res. No. 94-12, § 2, 9-6-1994)
Sec. 42-33. - Supervision of activities.
All such activities shall be conducted under the supervision of the person or persons making application for the permit, and shall be conducted in a peaceable and orderly manner in compliance with the laws and ordinances of the state and the county which are applicable thereto.
(Res. No. 94-12, § 3, 9-6-1994)
Sec. 42-34. - Placement of signs and banners.
In the conduct of such activities, no signs, shields or banners shall be placed or carried by any persons upon the roads, highways, rights-of-way and public property within the county that extend beyond the width of the person's body or extend more than 24 inches above the person's head; and the persons carrying any such signs, shields or banners shall be at least ten feet apart, shall not stand or loiter in front of any doorway, driveway or street intersection and shall not interfere with the general flow of traffic, whether pedestrian or vehicular.
(Res. No. 94-12, § 4, 9-6-1994)
Sec. 42-35. - Terms defined.
For the purposes of this article, the term "parade" shall be defined as any procession exempting funerals, containing 25 or more persons or five or more vehicles; and for the purposes of this article, an "assembly" shall be defined as a crowd of more than four persons standing, congregated or assembled upon any of the rights-of-way or streets, roads or highways or public property in the county. For the purposes of this article the terms "demonstration" and "picketing" shall be given their usual meaning, considering the context in which they are used in this article.
(Res. No. 94-12, § 5, 9-6-1994)
Editor's note— The application and permit forms utilized in conjunction with this article have been omitted from this codification. Copies of such forms are available through the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
