ARTICLE III. - PARTNERSHIP FOR FAMILIES, CHILDREN, AND YOUTH[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1994 Ga. Laws, page 4076, which created the Walton County Commission on Children and Youth. The Partnership for Families, Children, and Youth was created as the successor to such commission by 2003 Ga. Laws, page 3633. Amendments to the original act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Created; membership; appointments.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Partnership for Families, Children, and Youth, which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the state and a public corporation by that name, style, and title and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The partnership shall have perpetual existence and shall be the successor to the Walton County Commission on Children and Youth created under the prior provisions of this Act, which commission is abolished upon the effective date of this subsection in 2003. Any reference in this Act to such commission shall be deemed to refer to such partnership. The terms of office of those members of the commission serving as such immediately prior to the date this subsection becomes effective in 2003 shall expire upon that effective date with their successors upon the partnership appointed within 30 days after such effective date. The partnership shall be composed of 21 members as follows:
(1)
Twelve members to be appointed by the members of the Board of Commissioners of Walton County, other than the chairperson, with each such board member appointing one partnership member to serve for an initial term of one year and appointing one partnership member to serve for an initial term of two years;
(2)
One member to be appointed by the chairperson of the Board of Commissioners of Walton County to serve for an initial term of two years; and
(3)
Eight members to be appointed by majority vote of the judges of the following courts of Walton County: the superior court, the juvenile court, the magistrate court, and the probate court, with four of such partnership members designated in such appointments to serve for initial terms of one year and four such partnership members designated in such appointments to serve for initial terms of two years.
Appointments to the partnership shall include at least one member from each of the following fields or professions:
(1)
Law enforcement;
(2)
Child welfare;
(3)
Medical;
(4)
Education; and
(5)
The business, civic, and faith community.
(b)
All appointments to the commission [partnership] shall be made within 30 days after the effective date of this Act. All persons appointed to serve on the Walton County Commission on Children and Youth [Partnership for Families, Children, and Youth] shall be residents of said county. If a member of the commission moves his or her residence from the county, that member's position shall immediately become vacant and shall be filled in the same manner as the initial appointment. Following the initial appointments, all appointments shall be made for terms of two years and until a successor is appointed and qualified. Members shall be eligible for reappointment.
(1995 Ga. Laws, page 3899; 2003 Ga. Laws, page 3633)
Section 2. - Organizational meeting; selection of chairperson.
The full membership of the commission shall hold an organizational meeting within 30 days after appointment of all members of the commission. The members shall select a chairperson from their number at the organizational meeting.
Section 3. - Duties; chairperson; rules and procedures.
The commission shall undertake a study of the needs, issues, and problems outlined in this Act and any and all related matters. The commission may meet at such times and places as it deems necessary to perform its duties and accomplish the goals and purposes of this Act. The members of the commission shall elect a chairperson and such other officers as it deems necessary from its membership at the organizational meeting. The commission may adopt such rules or procedures as it finds necessary or desirable for the governance of its operations. The members of the commission shall serve without compensation or reimbursement for expenses from public funds.
Section 4. - Receiving, accepting and expending funds; coordinator.
The commission is authorized to receive, accept, and expend funds from public or private sources for programs to benefit the children and youth of Walton County. The commission is authorized to expend such funds to employ a coordinator for such programs who shall not be a member of the commission. The salary of such coordinator shall be set by the commission.
Section 5. - Annual report.
The commission shall make an annual report on July 1 of each year of its findings and recommendations to the members of the Walton County legislative delegation, the Board of Commissioners of Walton County, and the judicial officers of Walton County. The annual report shall be made available for public inspection by the citizens of Walton County.
Section 6. - Oath.
Each member of the commission shall take the following oath to be administered by the senior judge of the Superior Court of Walton County:
"Recognizing that there are many social, economic, and educational issues which prevent our children and youth from achieving their full potential and desiring to play a part in improving the adverse conditions facing our children and youth, I, _______, do solemnly swear that as a member of the Walton County Commission on Children and Youth I will fulfill the duties and responsibilities of my appointment to the best of my ability."
Section 7. - When act to become effective.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Section 8. - Conflicts.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
