ARTICLE II. - SALARY SYSTEM FOR CERTAIN COUNTY OFFICERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1977 Ga. Laws, page 3924, which provides a salary system for certain county officers in order to reflect increases in the cost of living. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words or phrases shall have the following meanings:
(a)
"General law" means any of the following Code sections of the O.C.G.A.:
(1)
O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183, providing a schedule of minimum salaries for tax collectors and tax commissioners of the various counties within the State of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended;
(2)
O.C.G.A. §§ 15-16-20 and 15-16-20.1, providing a schedule of minimum salaries for the sheriffs of the various counties within the State of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended;
(3)
O.C.G.A. §§ 15-6-88, 15-6-89, and 15-6-90, providing a schedule of minimum salaries for the clerks of the superior courts of the various counties within the State of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended; and
(4)
O.C.G.A. §§ 15-9-63, 15-9-64, 15-9-65, and 15-9-66, providing a schedule of minimum salaries for the judges of the probate courts of the various counties within the State of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended.
(b)
"Walton County officers" means the Sheriff, the Tax Commissioner, the Judge of the Probate Court, the Clerk of the Superior Court and the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Walton County.
(1996 Ga. Laws, page 4362)
Section 2. - Base salary.
(a)
(1)
(A) On and after the effective date of this Act, each Walton County officer who is elected for the first time after January 1, 1996, shall receive an annual base salary which shall be equal to the highest minimum annual salary established by any general law for any county officer of Walton County as of the first day of January of each such year.
(B)
The base salary provided for a county officer in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall be increased by 5 percent for each four-year term of office served by the individual county officer, calculated at the end of each such period of service.
(2)
(A)
The compensation of any Walton County officer who was elected for the first time prior to January 1, 1996, shall not be decreased below the amount of the compensation that officer was receiving on January 1, 1996. On and after the effective date of this Act, each Walton County officer who was elected for the first time prior to January 1, 1996, provided that such base salary shall be increased whenever the minimum annual salary of the sheriff is increased pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. § 15-16-20, and such increase shall be equal to the amount of increase or percentage of increase provided for sheriffs as calculated under the said general law.
(B)
The base salary provided for a county officer in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall be increased by 5 percent for each four-year term of office, including any unexpired term being served by a county officer as of January 1, 1996, served by the individual county officer, calculated at the end of each such period of service.
(3)
The salaries set out in this subsection shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Walton County.
(b)
Each Walton County officer shall also be entitled to any expenses or allowances, other than salary, provided by local law.
(c)
In addition to the salary and expenses provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Walton County shall receive an expense allowance of $300.00 per month payable from the funds of Walton County.
(d)
In addition to compensation and expenses provided for by other provisions of this Section, Walton County officers and their employees may, at the option of each such county officer, participate in any group health insurance plan, in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plan, provided for by the governing authority of Walton County, and any funds necessary as an employer contribution to effectuate such participation shall be paid from the funds of Walton County. The County Attorney shall have the right to participate in any group and health insurance plan, in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plan, provided for by the governing authority of Walton County, and any funds necessary as an employer contribution to effectuate such participation shall be paid from the funds of Walton County.
(1981 Ga. Laws, page 4226; 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3829; 1996 Ga. Laws, page 4362)
Section 3. - Intent.
It is the intent of this Act to provide a salary system for certain officers of Walton County in order to reflect increases in the cost of living.
