Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING CONSTRUCTION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Exemption from self-inspection of water and sewer lines.
The city is exempted from the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d) relating to the self-inspection of certain water and sewer lines, and such provisions shall not be applicable in the city.
Secs. 14-2—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODES

Sec. 14-31. - Adopted.
(a)
The city, in order to protect the health and safety of its citizens, hereby adopts by reference the following, to wit:
(1)
Life Safety Code, NFPA 101;
(2)
International Building Code, Chapter I; and
(3)
International Property Maintenance Code.
(b)
Said codes shall be enforced by the building inspector, fire marshal, police department or any other similar governmental official as appointed by the mayor.
(c)
Said inspector shall enter upon and inspect any property, building, or structure to assure they are in compliance with these within codes.
(Ord. of 11-19-2009)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, §§ II, III; construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25.
Sec. 14-32. - Compliance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the construction or erection of any building, whether commercial, business, or residential, unless such construction is accomplished in strict compliance with the various construction codes adopted by this article.
Sec. 14-33. - Enforcement.
When reference is made to the duties of certain officials named in the various construction codes adopted by this article, the designated city official shall be deemed to be the responsible official for the enforcement of such codes.
Sec. 14-34. - Penalty for violation of construction codes.
(a)
Any person violating any provision of the various construction codes adopted by this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(b)
A conviction of any provision of the various construction codes adopted by this article shall automatically suspend the business license of the offending contractor. The license may be reinstated by an application to the mayor and council upon a showing of good cause.
Sec. 14-35. - Permit and inspection fees.
Permit and inspection fees and any other charges imposed or due under the various construction codes adopted by this article shall be as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 14-36. - Building permits and certificates of occupancy—Public utilities.
(a)
No public utility may furnish temporary electrical, water, or gas connection for construction purposes, unless the contractor has been issued a construction permit by the chief building official.
(b)
No public utility may furnish permanent electrical, water, or gas connections until the contractor has been issued a certificate of occupancy by the chief building official.
(c)
No public utility may furnish power to a mobile home site until the owner has been issued either a building permit or a certificate of occupancy by the chief building official.
Sec. 14-37. - Building permits and certificates of occupancy—Water supply and sewage disposal facilities.
(a)
Building permits will not be issued until plans for water supply and sewage disposal have been approved by the county board of health.
(b)
Certificates of occupancy will not be issued until the completed water supply and sewage disposal facilities have been approved by the board of health.
State Law reference— Regulations for septic tanks in unincorporated areas, conformity prerequisite to building permit, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.1.
Secs. 14-38—14-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FLOW-RATE RESTRICTIONS ON PLUMBING FIXTURES[2]

Sec. 14-71. - Purpose of article.
It is the purpose of this article to:
(1)
Require the use of ultra-low-flow plumbing fixtures in all new construction or when replacing plumbing fixtures during renovation or remodeling of existing buildings;
(2)
Require the certification of plumbing fixtures regarding flow rates and serviceability standards;
(3)
Promote compliance with state laws for the purpose of conserving water;
(4)
Maintain the integrity of drinking water supplies; and
(5)
Reduce wastewater flows.
Sec. 14-72. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial building means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building, and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
Plumbing fixture means any toilet, urinal, showerhead, bathroom, lavatory, and kitchen faucet and replacement aerators.
Residential building means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling, but shall not include a hotel or motel.
Toilet means any fixture consisting of a water-flushed bowl with a seat, used for the disposal of human waste.
Urinal means any fixture consisting of a water-flushed bowl used for the disposal of human waste.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-73. - Fixture standards.
No plumbing fixture shall be installed which does not meet the standards listed in this section or the state plumbing code, whichever is stricter. This includes all plumbing fixtures installed in newly constructed buildings or when replacing plumbing fixtures during remodeling or renovation of existing buildings, except as noted in subsection (5) of this section. The effective date of this requirement for residential buildings shall be April 1, 1992; and for commercial buildings, the effective date shall be July 1, 1992.
(1)
All plumbing fixtures installed as referred to in this section shall not exceed the following maximum water use rates:
EXPAND
Fixture Type Maximum Water Use Rate (gallons)
Toilet 1.6 per flush
Urinal 1.0 per flush
Showerhead 2.5 per minute, at 60 psi gauge pressure
Kitchen faucet 2.5 per minute
Bathroom and lavatory faucets 2.0 per minute
  (2)
The flow restriction device in a showerhead must be a permanent and integral part of the showerhead and must not be removable to allow flow rates in excess of that stated in subsection (1) of this section.
(3)
Lavatory faucets located in restrooms intended for use by the general public shall be of the metering or self-closing type, in addition to the flow requirement listed in subsection (1) of this section.
(4)
The flow rates for all showerheads, kitchen, bathroom, and lavatory faucets shall be determined in accordance with ANSI/ASME A112.18.lM-1989 Plumbing Fixture Fittings, as amended; except that maximum flow rates may not exceed those given in subsection (1) of this section.
(5)
All toilets and urinals shall be certified to meet the hydraulic performance standards for low-consumption water closets specified in ANSI/ASME A112.19.2-1990 Vitreous China Plumbing Fixtures, as amended, and ANSI/ASME A112.19.6-1990 Hydraulic Requirements for Water Closets and Urinals, as amended.
Sec. 14-74. - Product certification; labeling.
The manufacturer shall certify compliance with the standards in section 14-73 by labeling the fixture and packaging as described in this section and providing, upon request, appropriate certification by an independent national testing organization acceptable to the city building official. Effective April 1, 1992, all toilets, urinals, showerheads, or faucets shall be clearly labeled to indicate the maximum flow rate or water usage of the fixture at the specified test pressure. Toilets and urinals shall additionally be labeled ASME A112.19.2M, as prescribed in section 8 of such standard. The label shall be affixed to the fixture and remain there until the proper building and/or plumbing inspections have been conducted. Also, the packaging must be clearly marked to identify water use rates when offered for retail.
Sec. 14-75. - Exceptions.
Permission for the exceptions listed in this section must be obtained from the building official. New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building may be exempt from the standards of section 14-73 for the following:
(1)
Showers and faucets installed for safety purposes, such as emergency eye wash stations, etc.
(2)
Plumbing fixtures specifically designed for the physically handicapped.
(3)
Fixtures specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or for installation in a correctional institution, which may require more water for proper operation.
(4)
Instances of building renovation where significant plumbing modifications would be required to accommodate the lower flows or for specialized purposes that cannot be accommodated by existing technology.
Sec. 14-76. - Enforcement; penalty for violation of article.
Citations for violations of this article may be issued by the building official or his authorized representative. Any person violating this article shall be tried before the municipal court. Upon conviction, such person found guilty of a violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
