ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Charter reference— Power to create, alter, abolish offices, §§ 1.12(38), 2.18(c); executive branch, § 3.10 et seq.; city manager, § 3.20; city attorney, § 3.30; administrative officers, § 3.40 et seq.; official bonds, § 7.10.

Sec. 2-116. - Mayor; duties.
The mayor shall be chief executive officer and have general superintendence of the affairs of the city. It shall be the duty of the mayor to:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the council and to cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(2)
See that the laws and ordinances are enforced.
(3)
See that each and every officer performs his duty.
(4)
Cause any officer to be prosecuted for neglect or violation of duty or immoral conduct.
(5)
Examine the digest of tax return, the reports of the city officers, the books of the clerk or council and city auditor, or appoint suitable committees to examine and report on the same.
(6)
Appoint at the first regular meeting of each term standing committees to whom may be referred such business as the council may deem proper, viz., committees on streets, finance, ordinance, public squares, etc.
(Ord. No. 1, § 1, 3-4-75)
Sec. 2-117. - Mayor pro-tem.
The mayor pro-tem may act in the absence, sickness, disqualification or inability of the mayor to act, and when so acting shall have all the powers of the mayor. Upon the death of the mayor, the mayor pro-tem shall discharge the duties of the office of mayor until the vacancy is filled by the election of a successor. Any council member may try offenders against the laws and ordinances of the city whenever from any cause it is not possible for the mayor pro-tem to act. When so sitting such council member shall be clothed with all the powers of the mayor.
(Ord. No. 1, § 2, 3-4-75)
Sec. 2-118. - Clerk.
The clerk shall attend each meeting of the council, keep a record of the minutes of the same, issue all summonses of the same, processes, subpoenas and executions as may be necessary in the enforcement of the laws and ordinances, issue all licenses granted by the mayor or mayor and council and keep a record thereof and have charge of and carefully and securely keep all the books and papers belonging to the council. He shall keep a book in which he shall enter all moneys received and from whom, also in which he shall enter all moneys paid out and for what purpose; he shall take receipts for all moneys paid out. Such books and receipts shall be subject at all times to the inspection of the mayor or any committee appointed by him for the purpose.
(Ord. No. 1, § 3, 3-4-75)
Sec. 2-119. - Auditor.
The city auditor shall receive and pay out all moneys belonging to the city. He shall pay out no moneys without a warrant or order duly passed by the council, signed by the mayor, and countersigned by the clerk with the seal of the city impressed thereon. Every such order so paid shall be marked "Paid" across its face and filed by him as a voucher. He shall keep a book and enter therein promptly and fairly all the money received by him, by whom and what for. He shall also make entry of all money paid out, specifying particularly the number and date of the warrant on which payment is made, and the consideration for which the warrant purports to have been given, and shall submit at each regular meeting of the council a report of all his receipts and disbursements. His books shall be at all times subject to the inspection of the mayor and council and at the first regular meeting in January of each year he shall submit a complete report showing the entire receipts and disbursements during the past year, exhibiting as clearly as practicable the main sources from the income has been received, and principal objects for which the expenditures have been made. He shall have charge of all tax or other executions and place them in the hands of the chief of police when so directed by the mayor and council and report to the council any neglect of the chief of police in collecting the same, together with all his actions and doings in relation thereto.
(Ord. No. 1, § 4, 3-4-75)
Sec. 2-120. - City manager.
modified
(a)
Creation of office. The office of city manager was created by the City Charter.
(b)
Appointment of city manager.
(1)
Pursuant to section 3.20 of the City Charter (all references to Code sections shall hereinafter refer to the City Code, unless otherwise noted), the city manager shall be appointed by majority vote of the city council for an indefinite term.
(2)
As allowed by section 62-61, the manager shall be chosen by the council solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications with specific reference to actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practice with respect to the duties of the office hereinafter set forth.
(c)
Removal of the city manager.
(1)
The city council may suspend, with or without pay, terminate, or take other disciplinary action against the city manager at any regularly or specially called meeting by a majority vote of the entire council, provided all terms of the city manager's contract regarding discipline are adhered to. The mayor has the authority to vote in the case of tie vote.
(2)
In the event the city council choose to suspend, discipline, or terminate the city manager as provided herein, the city manager shall have the right to request an appeal of that action within 72 hours of date of suspension, disciplinary action, or termination. If an appeal is requested, the appeal shall be heard by the city council within 30 days of the suspension, disciplinary action, or termination. By majority vote, the council may either affirm the previous action or reverse the decision.
(3)
The city manager serves at the pleasure of the city council, as an at will employee, subject only to those provisions contained in his or her employment contract, if any, the City Charter, the City Code, and city personnel policies.
(d)
Power and duties of the city manager. The city manager shall be the chief administrative and budgeting officer of the city and shall be responsible to the city council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city. To that end, the manager shall have the power and shall be required to:
(1)
Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the council together with the important features and be responsible for its administration after adoption.
(2)
Act as a liaison between the mayor/city council and the public by responding to inquiries and resolving conflicts.
(3)
Represent the mayor and city council at various meetings and social functions as needed.
(4)
Develop materials for meetings of the city council; attend all council meetings, unless excused therefrom; attend committee meetings when requested; make recommendations to the city council as needed; and implement decisions made by the council. The manager shall be given notice of all regular and special meetings of the council.
(5)
Ensure that city ordinances, resolutions are executed and enforced.
(6)
Administer policies and programs as approved by the mayor and council by directing departments in the procedures necessary for implementation.
(7)
Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies, and equipment for which funds are provided in the budget; let contracts necessary for operation and maintenance of city services for amounts up to and including $1,000.00; receive sealed bids for purchases or contracts in excess of $100,000.00; and present all bids (sealed or otherwise) to the council.
(8)
Keep the council advised of the financial and administrative affairs affecting the city; prepare progress reports; and make such recommendations as may be deemed desirable.
(9)
Develop short and long-term plans for city operations and act as city's principal liaison on economic development activities.
(10)
Recommend to the governing body (from time to time), adoption of such measures as may be deemed necessary of expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the community or for the improvement of administrative services.
(11)
Investigate the affairs of the city or any department or division thereof; investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the administration of the government of the city and with regard to services maintained by the public utilities in the city; and see that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed.
(12)
Provide reports and information to the media as requested.
(13)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the council not inconsistent with the City Charter, laws, or ordinances.
(14)
Supervise all the employees of the city, including but not limited to the director(s) and employees of the administration department, police department, public works department, economic development department, community development department, finance department, and director(s) and employees of any other department that may be created in the future.
(15)
Recommend to the mayor and council for appointment or removal city clerk, the city attorney, the city auditor, city judge, city solicitor, and all other appointed officials or consultants of the city who are not categorized in the position classification and pay plan as employees of the city.
(16)
Act as the hiring, disciplinary, evaluator, and removing authority for all city employees. The city manager shall have the authority to hire, fire, discipline, promote, task, assign and reassign duties, evaluate, and adjust employee pay within the position classification and pay plan without first seeking the approval of the city council or mayor for all city employees.
(17)
The city manager has the authority to transfer up to $2,000.00 from the budget contingency fund to any line item in the budget. Upon so doing, the city manager must immediately notify the city council upon each such occurrence.
(18)
The city manager is authorized to approve step increases at the end of a new employee's six-month probationary period, if warranted.
(e)
Bond. The city manager shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by the council, said bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of all the manager's duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city.
(f)
Emergencies. In case of accident, disaster, or other circumstance creating a public emergency, the city manager may award contracts and make purchases for the purpose of meeting said emergency, but the manager shall file promptly with the council a certificate showing such emergency and the necessity for such action, together with an itemized account of all expenditures.
(g)
Compensation. The city manager shall receive such compensation as the council shall fix from time to time by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. No. 112, §§ I—VII, 12-12-00; Ord. No. 115, § III, 6-6-01; Ord. No. 115-B, § 1, 5-11-04; Ord. No. 112-A, § 1, 9-13-05; Ord. No. 112-B, § 1, 10-4-05; Ord. No. 115-C, § 1, 1-10-06; Ord. No. 463 , § 1, 10-29-18; Ord. No. 464 , § 1, 10-22-18; Ord. No. 481 , § 1, 8-13-19; Ord. No. 544 , § 1, 5-11-21; Ord. No. 559 , § 1, 9-14-21; Ord. No. 567 , § 1, 3-8-22)
Sec. 2-121. - Compensation.
(a)
The mayor shall be compensated for services to the city in the amount of $10,800.00 per year, to be paid in 12 monthly installments of $900.00 each.
(b)
Each council member shall be compensated for services to the city in the amount of $8,400.00 per year, to be paid in 12 monthly installments of $700.00.
(Ord. No. 167, § 1, 9-10-02)
Secs. 2-122—2-145. - Reserved.
