Chapter 36 - OFFENSES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; crimes generally, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1 and 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 36-1—36-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER

Sec. 36-19. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense of disorderly conduct which is defined as consisting of any or all of the following described acts:
(1)
Acting in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any person is placed in fear of safety for his life, limb or health.
(2)
Acting in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby public property or property of any other person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(3)
Endangering lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry threats and abusive conduct.
(4)
Causing, provoking or engaging in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or public property.
(5)
Assembling or congregating with another or others for the purpose of causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl.
(6)
Jostling or roughly crowding or pushing any person in any public place.
(7)
Collecting in bodies or in crowds for unlawful purposes.
(8)
Assembling or congregating with another or others for the purpose of or with the intent to engage in gaming.
(9)
Frequenting any public place with intent to obtain money from another by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice or device.
(10)
Assembling with another or others for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person in the city, or aiding or abetting therein.
(11)
Uttering, while in a state of anger, in the presence of another, any lewd or obscene words or epithets.
(12)
Frequenting any place where gaming or illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or tolerated.
(13)
Acting in a dangerous manner toward others.
(14)
Using fighting words directed towards any person who becomes outraged and thus creates turmoil.
(15)
Assembling or congregating with another or others for the purpose of doing bodily harm to another.
(16)
By acts of violence, interfering with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(17)
Congregating with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having authority.
(18)
Making any unreasonably loud and unnecessary noise.
(19)
Damaging, befouling or disturbing public property or the property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition.
(20)
Consuming alcoholic beverages on any public street, sidewalk or any other public property within the corporate limits of the city. Possession of open containers of alcoholic beverages or containers with the seal broken shall be prima facie evidence of consumption.
(21)
Consuming alcoholic beverages whether in a vehicle or not on any public or private parking lot within the corporate limits of the city, except those maintained as establishments holding a valid on-premises license for the retail sale of beer or wine. Possession of open containers of alcoholic beverages or containers with the seals broken shall be prima facie evidence of consumption.
(Code 1992, § 11-1; Ord. No. 91-6, § B, 5-7-1991)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 36-20. - Unlawful assembly.
It shall be unlawful for any person, in association or agreement with one or more persons, to assemble, congregate, or meet together in the vicinity of the premises of another, or upon the streets, approaches, or places adjacent thereto, for the purposes of inciting a riot or for the purpose of violating the rights of any citizen of the city defined under federal, state, or city law or for the purpose of prohibiting the exercise of any right defined thereunder.
State Law reference— Unlawful assembly, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-33; inciting to riot, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-31.
Sec. 36-21. - Resisting, interfering with officers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make resistance to or in any manner to interfere with a police officer or firefighter in the discharge of his official duties.
(Code 1992, § 11-10; Ord. of 3-3-1981)
State Law reference— Obstructing or hindering law enforcement officers, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24; obstructing or hindering firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1.
Sec. 36-22. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in an intoxicated condition on the streets of the city or any public place in the city or place of business patronized by the public in the city or within the curtilage of any private residence in the city not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant in the city.
(Code 1992, § 11-11; Ord. No. 91-5, § A, 5-7-1991)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.
Sec. 36-23. - Driving while intoxicated.
No person shall occupy the driver's seat of a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or other public place in the city immediately under the steering wheel, while under the influence of intoxicating liquors and or drugs.
(Code 1992, § 11-14; Ord. of 10-4-1983(3))
Sec. 36-24. - Operating vehicle without insurance.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly operate or knowingly authorize the operation of a motor vehicle without effective insurance of such vehicle or without an approved plan of self-insurance as required by the Georgia Motor Vehicle Accident Reparations Act, O.C.G.A. § 33-34-1 et seq.; within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Any person who is charged with the offense as specified in subsection (a) of this section, such offense having occurred within the corporate limits of the city, may be tried in the municipal court, which court may try and dispose of the case.
(c)
Any defendant charged with a misdemeanor under Georgia Motor Vehicle Accident Reparations Act, O.C.G.A. § 33-34-1 et seq. in the municipal court shall be entitled on request to have the case against him transferred to the state court of the county.
(Code 1992, § 11-15; Ord. No. 85-6, §§ 1—5, 10-1-1985)
State Law reference— Jurisdiction of municipal courts in cases of operating motor vehicle without effective insurance, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-7.
Sec. 36-25. - Loitering or prowling within the city.
(a)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when he is in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(b)
Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it impractical, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself and explain his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the law enforcement officer failed to comply with the foregoing procedure or if it appears at the trial that the explanation given by the person was true and would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
(Code 1992, § 11-16; Ord. No. 92-5, §§ 1—3, 7-7-1992)
State Law reference— Loitering or prowling, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-36.
Sec. 36-26. - Discharging firearms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a rifle, pistol or any other slug propellant firearm within the city.
(Code 1992, § 11-12; Ord. of 6-6-1967)
State Law reference— Discharge of firearms, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-103.
Sec. 36-27. - Yard sales, estate sales, and other similar sales.
(a)
Definitions:
(1)
Yard sales, estate sales and other similar sales shall mean and include all sales entitled "yard sale", "estate sale", "garage sale", "lawn sale", "attic sale", "rummage sale", "flea market sale", or any similar casual sale of tangible personal property which is advertised by any means whereby the public at large is or can be made aware of said sale and for which the city does not require a license.
(2)
Goods are meant to include any merchandise, personal property or other property capable of being the object of a sale regulated hereunder.
(3)
Person shall mean and include individuals, partnerships, corporations, and any other legal entity.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or conduct any sale, as defined herein more than four times not to exceed three days each during a 12-month period.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to erect or post signs advertising said sale or sales more than seven days prior to the date of the sale and any sign advertising said sale shall be removed within 24 hours of the end of the sale. All signs erected or posted advertising said sale or sales shall comply in all respects with all state and local laws.
(Ord. No. 2013-9, 12-3-2013)
Secs. 36-28—36-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS

Sec. 36-56. - Marijuana possession.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to be in possession of one ounce or less of marijuana within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Any person who is charged with the possession of one ounce or less of marijuana, such offense having occurred within the corporate limits of the city, may be tried in the municipal court of the city, which court may try and dispose of the case.
(c)
Any defendant charged with possession of an ounce or less of marijuana in the municipal court shall be entitled to have the case against him transferred to the state court of the county.
(Code 1992, § 11-5; Ord. of 4-6-1982(2), § 5)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-30(j).
Sec. 36-57. - Possession of drug-related objects prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use, or possess with intent to use, any object or materials of any kind for the purpose of planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body marijuana or a controlled substance as defined in the Georgia Controlled Substances Act, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-20 et seq.
(Code 1992, § 11-17; Ord. No. 2004-91, 4-29-2004)
Sec. 36-58. - Obscenity, indecency, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in any public place in the city, naked or in any indecent or lewd dress; or to make any indecent exposure of his person; or to be guilty of any indecent or lewd act or behavior; or to exhibit or sell or offer for sale any obscene, vulgar or licentious books, pictures or paintings; or to exhibit or perform in any hall, house or public place in the city any indecent, immoral or lewd play or dance; or to sing to a public audience any sacrilegious, indecent, vulgar or lewd song.
(Code 1992, § 11-6; Ord. of 1-6-1981(1))
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-8.
Sec. 36-59. - Gambling.
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, have or keep in his possession any wheel, table, machine, implement or device which although not designed for gambling purposes, has been or is used for gambling purposes or for gambling. The winning of a free game partially through skill shall not be construed as gambling.
(Code 1992, § 11-7; Ord. of 1-6-1981(2))
State Law reference— Gambling, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-20 et seq.
Sec. 36-60. - Prostitution, pandering, etc.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, driver of any public conveyance, automobile, vehicle or common carrier of any kind to transport, carry, convey or assist of any kind, to transport, carry, convey or assist by abetting, encouraging, requesting or otherwise in transporting, carrying, conveying or accompanying any woman from any point within the city to any point outside the city, or from any point outside the city to any point within the city, for any immoral purpose, or for the purpose of prostitution.
(b)
Giving information about, or directing any other person to any house for immoral purposes, or to any immoral woman, whether the communication is by word of mouth, by telephone or in writing within the city is unlawful.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to invite or entice any person upon any avenue, street, road, alley, highway, open space or public square or enclosure within the city to accompany or follow him to any place for immoral purposes, or to invite, entice or address any person from any door, window, porch of any house or building to enter any house or accompany or follow him to any place whatsoever for immoral purposes.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person after being invited or enticed into an avenue, street, road, alley, highway, open space or public square, or other place within the city for immoral purposes to go with the person.
(Code 1992, § 11-8; Ord. of 1-6-1981(3), §§ A—D)
State Law reference— Prostitution, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-9; pimping, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-11; pandering, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-12.
Sec. 36-61. - Maintaining disorderly house.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bawdy or disorderly house means a place where noisy, riotous people assemble to the annoyance of the neighborhood.
(b)
Unlawful. It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate a bawdy or disorderly house that tends to annoy or disturb the usual manner of life in the community or tends to upset the same.
(c)
Police department authorization. The police department is hereby authorized to issue a summons to any offender of this section to appear in municipal court and upon proof of a violation of this section shall be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-15.
(Code 1992, § 11-19; Ord. of 1-6-1981(4))
State Law reference— Maintaining a disorderly house, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-44.
Secs. 36-62—36-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY

Sec. 36-81. - Shoplifting.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the first, second, or third offense of theft by shoplifting when the property which was the subject of the theft was valued at $300.00 or less within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Any person who is charged with the first, second, or third offense of theft by shoplifting when the property which was the subject of the theft was valued at $300.00 or less, such offense having occurred within the corporate limits of the city, may be tried in the municipal court of the city, which court may try and dispose of the case.
(c)
Any defendant charged with the first, second, or third offense of theft by shoplifting when the property which was the subject of the theft was valued at $300.00 or less, shall be entitled upon request to have the case against him transferred to the state court of the county.
(d)
It shall be the duty of the clerk of the municipal court to make reports of adjudications of guilt of violations of state law under this section to the state crime information center as required under O.C.G.A. § 35-3-2.
(Code 1992, § 11-2; Ord. No. 88-1, §§ I—VI, 6-7-1988; Ord. No. 2006-17, 11-21-2006)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 16-8-14.
Sec. 36-82. - Injuring, tampering with utility apparatus, city property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
(1)
Negligently and without authority to injure or destroy any meter, pipe, conduit, wire, line, post, lamp or other apparatus belonging to the city or a company engaged in the manufacture or sale of electricity, gas, water, sewer, telephone or other public services;
(2)
Negligently and without authority to prevent a meter from properly registering the quantity of such service supplied;
(3)
In any way to interfere with the proper action of the city or such company;
(4)
Negligently to divert any services of the city or such company; or
(5)
Otherwise negligently and without authority to use or cause to be used, without the consent of the city or such company any service manufactured, sold or distributed by the city or such company.
(b)
Where there is no evidence to the contrary, the person performing any of the illegal acts set forth in subsection (a) of this section and the person who with knowledge of such violation receives the benefit of such service without proper charge as a result of the improper action shall be presumed to be responsible for the act of tampering or diversion.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally and without authority to injure or destroy any traffic-control equipment, sign, vehicle, recreation equipment, recreation property, lock, padlock, building or other such property belonging to the city.
(Code 1992, § 11-3; Ord. No. 87-3, 7-7-1987)
State Law reference— Damaging, injuring or interfering with property of public utility companies, municipalities or political subdivisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 36-83. - Theft or destruction of road and traffic signs.
It shall be illegal for any person to steal, vandalize, destroy or otherwise damage any public road or traffic sign in the city.
Secs. 36-84—36-109. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - MINORS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 36-110—36-131. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CURFEW

Sec. 36-132. - Purposes.
The city council has determined that:
(1)
Persons under the age of 18 are particularly susceptible by their lack of maturity and experience to participate in unlawful activity and to be victims of older perpetrators of crime.
(2)
There has been a significant breakdown in the supervision and guidance normally provided by parents for minors resulting in an increase in the crimes, substance abuse, and school dropout rates, juvenile pregnancy, and other illicit behavior.
(3)
The city has an obligation to provide for the protection of minors from each other and from other persons, for the enforcement of parental control over and responsibility for children, for the protection of the general public, and for the reduction of the incidence of juvenile criminal activities which are not easily controlled by existing laws and ordinances.
(4)
A curfew for those under the age of 16 years will be in the interest of the public health, safety, and general welfare and will help attain the foregoing objectives and diminish the undesirable impact of such conduct on the citizens of the city and will promote the public good, safety and welfare.
(5)
Parental responsibility for the whereabouts of children is the accepted norm and legal sanctions to enforce such responsibility have had demonstrated effectiveness in many cities.
(6)
A curfew will increase parental responsibility for minors within their control and decrease minor delinquency.
Sec. 36-133. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency errand means a mission that results from an unforeseen combination of circumstances that call for immediate action. The term "emergency errand" includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
Minor means any unemancipated person under the age of 16 years.
Public place means any place to which the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, alleys or rights-of-way, to include sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, malls, or other places or buildings open to the public; any cemeteries, schoolyards, bodies of water or watercourses; any privately or publicly owned places of amusement, entertainment or public accommodation, including parking lots; and any vacant lot or land.
Sec. 36-134. - Hours; prohibited conduct.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to walk, loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play or to be present in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other grounds, public places and public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other such places on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of every week between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, official city time, and on Friday and Saturday of every week between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, official city time; provided, however, that the provisions of this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by his parent or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor at that time, or where the minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed in writing, dated and signed by his parents, guardian or adult person having custody of the minor.
(b)
Any minor under the age of 18 years who shall do any of the acts prohibited by subsection (a) of this section shall, upon request, furnish to the officers his name and address and that of his parents or guardian or person having custody and care of such minor and then be directed by any officer of the police department to return to his dwelling place or residence. Upon the failure or refusal of such minor to return forthwith, he shall be turned over to the appropriate court for disposition.
(Code 1992, § 11-13(a), (b); Ord. of 10-7-1969, § 4)
Sec. 36-135. - Parental responsibility.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 18 years to allow, permit, make possible, tolerate or condone such minor to walk, loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play or to be present in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other grounds, public places and public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of every week between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, official city time, and on Friday and Saturday of every week between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, official city time.
(b)
The parent or guardian or person having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 18 years, which minor shall have failed to return forthwith to his dwelling place or residence after having been requested to do so by an officer of the police department, shall, upon proof that such parent or guardian or person having custody or care of the minor has permitted the minor to do any of the acts prohibited to minors by this section, be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in section 1-15.
(Code 1992, § 11-13(c), (d); Ord. of 10-7-1969, § 4)
Sec. 36-136. - Exceptions; defenses.
It is an exception to, and shall be an affirmative defense to any charge of violations of the terms of this article, if the minor is involved in any of the following activities:
(1)
Emergency errand. The minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his parent, guardian, or other adult person 21 years of age or older having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(2)
School activity. The minor is returning directly home from a school activity;
(3)
Employment. The minor is traveling to, or returning directly home from, lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in the places referenced in section 36-135 during the proscribed period of time;
(4)
Constitutional rights. The minor is attending or traveling directly to or from an activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech, freedom of assembly, or free exercise of religion;
(5)
Travel. The minor is engaged in interstate and intrastate vehicular travel through the city with parental consent;
(6)
Residence. The minor is on the sidewalk adjoining the property where the minor resides or on the property where the minor resides or on either side of or across the street from the property where the minor resides and the adult or the owner or resident of that property has given permission for the minor to be there; and
(7)
Marriage. The minor is married or has been married pursuant to state law.
