ARTICLE VI. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT

Sec. 4-450. - Findings and purpose.
(a)
Based on the demonstrated experience of other urban counties and municipalities, including, but not limited to, Atlanta and Fulton County, Georgia; DeKalb County, Georgia; Orlando, Florida; Orange County, Florida; Indianapolis, Indiana; Los Angeles, California; Beaumont, Texas; Phoenix, Arizona; St. Paul, Minnesota; and Austin, Texas, which experience is found to be relevant to the problems that face the City of Centerville, Georgia, the city council take note of the notorious and self-evident conditions and secondary effects attendant to the commercial exploitation of human sexuality, which do not vary greatly among the various communities within our country, particularly the problems of crime, blight, and deterioration which are brought about by alcohol and live nudity.
(b)
It is the finding of the city council that public nudity, either partial or total, under circumstances related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in so-called "nude bars" or establishments offering so-called "nude entertainment" or "adult entertainment" in conjunction with the sale of alcoholic beverages, begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions.
(c)
Among the acts of criminal behavior found to be associated with nudity and alcohol are disorderly conduct, prostitution, public indecency and drug trafficking. Among the undesirable community conditions identified with the concentration of adult entertainment establishments are depreciation of property values in neighborhoods surrounding nude bars or adult entertainment establishments where alcoholic beverages are sold, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burdens on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior described in this subsection, and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of adult establishments in particular areas.
(d)
Other negative effects which were found by the city council are the apparent connection of these establishments to organized crime and illegal drug sales; the potential spread of communicable diseases to law enforcement personnel who answer calls at adult establishments and to patrons of such establishments; and the potential proliferation of adult entertainment establishments after the initial siting of an adult entertainment establishment in a particular neighborhood.
(e)
The city, therefore, finds that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare, safety and morals and preservation of its businesses, neighborhoods, and of churches, schools, and parks to prevent the adverse impact of adult entertainment establishments. Therefore, the city finds that the prohibition of live nude conduct in establishments licensed to serve alcohol for consumption on the premises is in the public welfare by furthering legitimate government interests, such as reducing criminal activity, protection against property devaluation and deterioration, and eliminating undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments which serve alcohol and allow and/or encourage nudity, and that such prohibition will not infringe upon the protected constitutional rights of freedom of speech. To that end, this section is hereby adopted.
(Code 1992, ยง 3-8; Ord. No. 2007-11, 12-4-2007)
Sec. 4-451. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverages means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine as more specifically defined in this chapter.
Business establishment means a business within the city where alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for consumption on the premises pursuant to a license issued by the city.
License means a license for sale for consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages issued by the city.
Licensee means any person to whom a license for sale for consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages has been issued by the city, including the officers and agents of the licensee.
Live means any activity or entertainment which is carried on by an actual living person in the physical presence of the patrons.
Live entertainment means entertainment for the benefit of patrons which is carried on in the actual physical presence of such patrons, including, but not limited to dancing.
Mainstream performance house means a theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar establishment which regularly features live performances such as plays or concerts which are not distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction, description or display or the featuring of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities and where such depiction, if any, is only incidental to the primary purpose of any performance.
Person means a human being.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned establishment, whether room, shop or building wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or consumed, including the sidewalk serving area or outside, open air or patio-type serving area on the private property of an establishment, as defined in section 4-1.
Specified anatomical areas means any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; cleft of the buttocks; or any portion of the female breast encompassed within an area falling below the horizontal line one would have to draw to intercept a point above the top of the areola, or any portion of the areola, or any simulation thereof. The term "specified anatomical areas" includes the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not so exposed.
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activities means and includes any of the following:
(1)
The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
(2)
Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
(3)
Masturbation, actual or simulated;
(4)
The displaying of the male or female pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals; or
(5)
Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in subsections (1) through (4) of this definition.
Sec. 4-452. - Conduct prohibited; exception.
(a)
The following types of entertainment, attire and conduct are prohibited upon any premises licensed to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises within the city:
(1)
The employment or use of any person live, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages or food while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing, as to expose any portion of his specified anatomical areas.
(2)
Live entertainment where any person appears unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose any portion of his specified anatomical areas or where such person performs acts of specified sexual activities or acts which simulate specified sexual activity, as defined herein.
(3)
The holding, promotion, sponsoring or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night, event or any other activity where live patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the conduct prescribed in subsections (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(b)
Nothing contained in subsection (a) of this section shall apply to the premises of any mainstream performance house or museum which derives less than 20 percent of its gross annual income from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Sec. 4-453. - Liability of licensee for conduct of persons in licensed premises.
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to permit any conduct prohibited in this article that he knows or has reasonable cause to know is taking place on the premises. Any such conduct by a licensee shall be a violation of this Code and shall be punishable as provided in section 1-15 and shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of any license issued under this chapter.
(Code 1992, ยง 3-8; Ord. No. 2007-11, 12-4-2007)
