ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Unless otherwise defined herein, the definitions contained within O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq., shall be applicable to this chapter.
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Bona fide full-service restaurant means an established place of business:
(1)
Which is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages, distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines for consumption on the premises;
(2)
Where meals with substantial entrees selected by the patron from a full menu are served;
(3)
Which has adequate facilities and sufficient employees for cooking or preparing and serving such meals for consumption at tables in dining rooms on the premises; and
(4)
Which derives at least 50 percent of its gross income from the sale of such meals prepared, served, and consumed on the premises located within the city limits.
Brown bagging means the bringing of alcoholic beverages into business establishments licensed for the retail sale of beer, wine, or distilled spirits by the drink for the purpose of drinking such alcoholic beverages at any such establishment.
Building code means and includes all building, plumbing, and electrical codes and any other similar technical code of the city.
Church means any permanent building where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
College means only such state, county, city, church, or other colleges that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common colleges of the state and shall not include private colleges where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Distance means the measurement along a straight line that describes the shortest aerial route between the nearest part of the premises regulated under this chapter and the front door of the building or the nearest portion of the grounds, whichever is applicable.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Establishment means any physical location or section thereof for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
License means the permit granted to a licensee for the operation of an establishment for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
Licensee means any person engaged in selling or conducting the sale, at retail or wholesale, of any alcoholic beverages.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Minor means any person who has not attained the legal age as set by the state for the purchasing of alcoholic beverages.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned establishment, whether room, shop or building, wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or consumed. The term "premises" also includes the sidewalk serving area of sidewalk cafes and an outside, open-air or patio-type serving area on the private property of an establishment. Such outside, open-air or patio-type serving area must meet all planning and zoning commission requirements and adjoin or be connected to the main service building in such a manner as to prevent the movement of pedestrians or vehicular traffic between the outside serving area and the main service building.
Private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state actively in operation within the corporate limits of the city, and having regularly paying monthly, quarterly or semiannual dues paying members.
Private residence means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one nor more than three families customarily reside and shall not include a boardinghouse where there are five or more boarders or roomers, or any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of six consecutive months immediately prior to the filing of an application.
Retail means retail sales packaged to go and not for consumption on the premises.
School means only such state, county, city, church or other schools that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of the state and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of the term "wine" contained in this section.
(Code 1992, § 3-1; Ord. No. 2007-11, 12-4-2007; Ord. No. 2008-12, 12-16-2008)
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.
Sec. 4-2. - Copy of regulations to be kept on premises.
All holders of a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages including beer, wine, malt beverages, and distilled spirits shall keep a copy of this chapter posted in the licensed premises at all times and shall thoroughly familiarize themselves and shall thoroughly instruct any employee or other person working there with respect to the terms hereof and each licensee or its agents selling alcoholic beverages shall at all times be familiar with the terms hereof.
(Code 1992, § 3-2; Ord. No. 2007-11, 12-4-2007)
Secs. 4-3—4-22. - Reserved.
