Chapter 48 - SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Solid waste management generally, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1; hazardous waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-79; local and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; yard trimmings and disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; authorization for local government units to enforce collection of taxes, fees, or assessments for solid waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.3; authority of local governments to adopt and enforce local regulations for the handling and disposal of solid waste, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-30.9; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries pursuant to contract, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 48-1. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices restaurants, warehouses, and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Dump means to throw, discard, place, deposit, discharge, burn or dispose of a substance.
Garbage means food waste, including waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter used or intended for food, or that matter used in the preparation of cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Hazardous waste means any solid waste that has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency in the Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 USC 6971, or other federal regulations.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Litter means all discarded substances and materials, including, without limitation, all sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste materials, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals, building or construction materials, demolition debris, mechanical equipment or parts, scrap tires, or any all other material or substance of any kind and description resulting from domestic, industrial, commercial or mining operations.
Litter receptacle means those containers acceptable to the city and which may be standardized as to size, shape, capacity and color, as well as any other receptacles suitable for the depositing of litter.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term "municipal solid waste" includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operations or industrial processors or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including, but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Private property means any dwelling, house, building, or other structure, whether inhabited to be used permanently or temporarily, or continuously uninhabited or vacant, which is 100 percent privately owned, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, parking area, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or pertinent to the dwelling, house, building or other structure.
Public place means any area that is used or held out for use by the public, whether owned or operated by public or private interests, including, but not limited to, streets, parking lots, parking garages, sidewalks, rights-of-way, parks campgrounds, highways, alleys and other public ways.
Reclamation means a controlled method of sorting and storing materials from solid wastes for future use.
Recovered materials means those materials which have known use, reuse, or recycling potential; can be feasibly used, reused, or recycled; and have been diverted or removed from the solid waste stream for sale, use, reuse, or recycling whether or not requiring subsequent separation and processing.
Recyclable materials means:
(1)
Office paper, including copy paper, letterhead, computer printouts, envelopes, all colors of paper, (no carbon paper);
(2)
Junk mail, including advertisements, brochures and fliers, cardboard boxes;
(3)
Food or shoe boxes;
(4)
Newspapers, including inserts;
(5)
Magazines, catalogs and telephone books, without any plastic shrink wraps;
(6)
Brown paper bags;
(7)
Aluminum, including soda cans, foil and food trays;
(8)
Foods cans, including steel, bimetal and tin;
(9)
Glass bottles and jars, including clear, brown, green and blue, without caps and lids;
(10)
Plastic bottles but no motor oil bottles (The city has a dumpster for plastic bags.);
(11)
Drink boxes;
(12)
Milk and juice cartons without plastic caps;
(13)
Light scrap metal, including doorknobs, hangers, toasters and small bicycle parts;
(14)
Scrap tires; and
(15)
Reserved.
(16)
Any other material that the city deems to be recyclable and adds to the collection list.
Recycling means any process by which materials which would otherwise become solid waste are collected, separated, or processed and reused or returned to use in the form of raw materials or products.
Solid waste means garbage, trash, ashes, refuse construction waste and any other waste material in solid or semisolid state not otherwise defined herein, but excluding water-carried body waste or other refuse liquids disposed by sewerage.
Special handling waste means bulky, hard-to-handle items, including appliances, furniture, household goods or other refuse which because of size, shape, weight or amount cannot be handled by normal disposal methods; excluded are large or heavy items such as vehicles, or other items such as construction materials, including roofing or the remains of trees and/or stumps cleared from lots.
Trash means nonanimal or nonvegetable solid waste consisting of combustible and noncombustible material such as, but not limited to, paper, plastic, cardboard, yard clippings, wood, glass, crockery, grass, leaves and small shrubbery, which need to be placed in plastic trash bags. The term "trash" excludes small limbs and other large items.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree pruning, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Code 1992, §§ 14-59, 14-64, 14-69; Ord. No. 94-11, § 4, 8-16-1994; Ord. No. 96-6, § 1, 9-1-1996; Ord. No. 2000-5, 3-31-2000; Ord. No. 2021-2 , 8-3-2021)
Secs. 48-2—48-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 48-21. - Exclusive right of city.
The city shall have the exclusive right to collect and dispose of all garbage, trash and yard waste defined as acceptable for city collection, from all residential, commercial and public places within the city.
(Code 1992, § 14-56; Ord. No. 94-11, § 1, 8-16-1994)
Sec. 48-22. - City to provide sanitation services.
The city may, at the discretion of the city council, elect to provide sanitation services by using city personnel and equipment or by contracting with a private operator for these services. No person except authorized employees of the city utility department or their authorized representatives shall empty garbage, trash or yard waste containers and receptacles or collect, convey or transfer garbage, trash, yard waste or other refuse through the streets, alleys or public thoroughfares of the city without a written permit granted and issued by the city council.
(Code 1992, § 14-57; Ord. No. 94-11, § 2, 8-16-1994)
Sec. 48-23. - Fees.
In all cases, a fee as provided in the city fee schedule in chapter 22 will be charged to all residential and commercial places within the city and will appear on the regular monthly water and sewer bill of each customer.
(Code 1992, § 14-58; Ord. No. 94-11, § 3, 8-16-1994)
Sec. 48-24. - Storage and collection.
(a)
Garbage to be collected shall be placed by the owner in the appropriate container furnished by the contractor; any additional garbage, which the container will not hold, shall be placed in plastic trash bags.
(b)
The garbage containers which the contractor will be furnishing shall be maintained by owner and/or resident in a manner that will abide by the city standard of cleanliness. A city representative shall determine whether or not containers are acceptable if a question arises.
(c)
The resident will be responsible for placing the container next to the road not to exceed two feet from the curb. The container may be moved to the road not sooner than the day prior to collection and shall be moved back behind the building line, in accordance with chapter 34, subsection 34-81(2), not later than the day after collection.
(d)
Trash containers shall be placed right side up with lids on. This will prevent any unnecessary scattering of trash. Leaves, grass, yard clippings and similar small items shall be placed in plastic trash bags or containers for trash. Trash not handled in the aforementioned manner will not be picked up. If a question arises, a city representative will be called in to make the final decision.
(e)
Special handling waste shall be picked up by the contractor when placed at the street right-of-way.
(f)
The contractor shall not litter premises in the process of making collections, but shall not be required to collect garbage, trash or special handling waste unless it is stored or assembled in an approved container and/or placed in a manner herein provided.
(g)
The contractor shall not be required to go onto premises for collection of garbage. Garbage containers must be placed at roadside not to exceed two feet from the curb. Under special agreement with the city, the contractor will go up to the residence and roll the container out to truck and empty and place the container back in its designated place. The garbage container must be kept outside of the fenced area with easy access; the contractor will not be required to go in a fenced area.
(Code 1992, § 14-60; Ord. No. 94-11, § 5, 8-16-1994; Ord. No. 2014-5, 11-4-2014; Ord. No. 2016-7 , 7-19-2016)
Sec. 48-25. - Frequency and method of collection.
(a)
The contractor shall make garbage collections from residential places one time per week on a regularly scheduled day. The contractor shall make garbage collections from commercial places two times per week on a regularly scheduled day and route.
(b)
The contractor shall make trash and special handling waste collections throughout the city once per week on a regularly scheduled day and route.
(c)
Pickup of any items not otherwise covered by the ordinance codified in this section shall be negotiated between the individual owner/requester and the city on an individual basis (e.g., construction materials, clearing of lots, etc.).
(d)
In the event of inclement weather or acts of God which hamper or prevent normal collection schedules, the contractor shall make every effort to complete garbage pickup as quickly as possible and trash pickup by the end of the following week.
(e)
Notice of changes in any route or days of collection schedules shall be given to the city at least 30 days prior to becoming effective. The city council will be consulted on any proposed change. The observance of holidays at the first of the week (Monday or Tuesday) shall delay regular garbage collection by one day. The observance of a holiday on Wednesday shall delay regular trash pickup one day.
(Code 1992, § 14-61; Ord. No. 94-11, § 6, 8-16-1994; Ord. No. 2016-7 , 7-19-2016)
Sec. 48-26. - Complaints or suggestions on service.
(a)
All customer complaints about service shall be made to personnel in the utility department office or to the city council. These complaints shall be recorded in a log book maintained for that purpose in the utility department.
(b)
Customer and other complaints shall be referred by proper authority (mayor, council, utility department personnel) to the contractor on the same day that they are reported or no later than the next work day.
(c)
Any other suggestions about service shall be discussed by proper city authority with the contractor as the need arises.
(Code 1992, § 14-62; Ord. No. 94-11, § 7, 8-16-1994)
Sec. 48-27. - Installation of compactors.
The director of operations or his designee will review and approve all plans and specifications for the installation of compactor units to be used as contemplated by this chapter. Such compactors will be approved by the director of operations or his designee prior to installation being made. All compactor shredders and compactor containers shall be installed on class A, 3,000-pound per-square-inch concrete pads of not less than a six-inch thickness. All such installations shall comply with the requirements of the building code(s) of the city, the fire protection code(s) and other applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. The director of operations or his designee is further authorized to adopt internal policies and regulations as may be necessary with reference to such matters.
(Code 1992, § 14-63; Ord. No. 94-11, § 8, 8-16-1994; Ord. No. 2016-7 , 7-19-2016)
Secs. 48-28—48-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - YARD TRIMMINGS DISPOSAL REGULATIONS

Sec. 48-58. - Placement and disposal of yard trimmings; prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the city.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed at any municipal waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the city.
(Code 1992, § 14-65; Ord. No. 96-6, § 1, 9-1-1996)
Sec. 48-59. - Sorting, storing, composting and collecting yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stored in the following manner:
(1)
Yard trimmings will not be mixed with garbage or trash.
(2)
They will be placed in a container or plastic bag and will be picked up on a different day from trash or garbage pickup.
(3)
Limbs not exceeding ten feet long nor four inches in diameter and placed by the curb in one neat, orderly stack not larger than four feet deep, four feet high and ten feet long will be picked up once a week.
(Code 1992, § 14-66; Ord. No. 96-6, § 1, 9-1-1996; Ord. No. 2016-7 , 7-19-2016)
Secs. 48-60—48-76. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - RECYCLABLE MATERIAL AND SERVICES

Sec. 48-77. - Declaration of policy; legislative intent.
(a)
It is declared to be the policy of the governing authority of the city to educate and encourage generators and handlers of solid waste to reduce and minimize to the greatest extent possible the amount of solid waste which requires collection, treatment or disposal through source reduction, reuse, composting, recycling, and other methods and to promote markets for and engage in the purchase of goods made from recovered materials and goods which are recyclable.
(b)
It is further the intent of the governing authority of the city that every effort be undertaken to ensure the proper management of scrap tires from the point of generation to the ultimate point of reuse, recycling, or disposal and that every effort be made to ensure that, where possible, they be reused or recycled rather than being disposed.
(c)
It is further the intent of the governing authority of the city to provide a frame of reference for the proper handling of yard trimmings. The productivity of the soils of the city requires that nature's way of recycling vegetative matter be respected and followed and that such essential building materials are no longer wasted by being buried in land fields but are returned to the soil. Therefore, the governing authority of the city adopts and recommends the following hierarchy for handling yard trimmings:
(1)
Naturalized, low-maintenance landscaping requiring little or no cutting;
(2)
Grass cycling by mowing it high and letting it lie;
(3)
Stacking branches into brush piles for use as wildlife habitats and for gradual decomposition into the soil;
(4)
Composting on the site where the material was grown, followed by incorporation of the finished compost into the soil at that site;
(5)
Chipping woody material on the site where such material was generated;
(6)
Collecting yard trimmings and transporting them to another site to be chipped or composted for later use; and
(7)
Chipping wood material for later use as fiber fuel.
(Code 1992, § 14-68; Ord. No. 2000-5, 3-31-2000)
Secs. 48-78—48-97. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - LITTERING

Sec. 48-98. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to dump, deposit, place, throw or leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property or any waters within the corporate limits of the city unless:
(1)
The property has been designated by appropriate authority for the deposit of the litter and the person is authorized to use the property;
(2)
The litter is placed into a litter receptacle or container installed on the property;
(3)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant.
Sec. 48-99. - Dumping; unauthorized use of refuse container.
(a)
No person shall dump or otherwise dispose of litter, any waste containing hazardous substances, or other refuse or unsightly matter on any public or private property unless the property is specifically approved by the city or state for dumping.
(b)
It is a violation of this article to dump any domestic, industrial, commercial or mining waste or litter, or refuse into any private dumpster, container or private collection system without permission from the owner.
(c)
The dumping of any litter or waste materials into any container specifically designated as a recycling container is prohibited unless the materials discarded are properly separated and sorted into categories which are deposited into the containers specifically approved for the same type of recyclable waste and not mixed with any other debris or refuse.
Sec. 48-100. - Allowing escape of load material.
(a)
No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, highway or other public road within the city unless the vehicle is constructed or loaded to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom; provided, however, that sand or any substance for increasing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway and the cleaning or maintaining of the roadway may be undertaken by the governmental agency having that responsibility.
(b)
Any person operating a vehicle from which any glass, litter or other object has fallen or escaped which constitutes an obstruction or could damage a vehicle or otherwise endanger travel on the street, highway or other public road shall immediately cause the street, highway or public road to be cleaned of all glass objects and shall pay any costs for the removal.
(c)
No provision of this section shall apply to any motor vehicle which is used exclusively for agricultural purposes and which is not operated on or over any public highway for any other purpose than the purpose of operating it across the highway or along the highway from one point of the owner's land to another part thereof, irrespective of whether or not the tracts adjoin or the purpose of taking the vehicle to a repair shop.
Sec. 48-101. - Construction and demolition sites.
(a)
All construction and demolition contractors, building permit holders, or property owners shall adhere to all provisions of this section.
(b)
On-site refuse receptacles to effectively and securely handle the accumulation of all debris, paper, building material waste, scrap building materials and other trash and litter produced by those working on the site will be installed and maintained.
(c)
All construction and demolition sites shall be kept in a litter-free condition. Under no circumstances shall the accumulation of litter become a threat to the public safety or to the public health, welfare, property, morality or good order of the city or portion thereof.
(d)
All dirt, mud, silt, or any other earth deposited upon any public or private property, including streets and roads, as a result of construction or demolition shall be immediately removed by the permit holder as to prevent any detectable amount of accumulation which may tend to cause a threat to the public safety, property values, both real and personal, or good order of the city or environment.
(e)
Any construction supplies or materials, landscaping supplies or materials, or any other material deposited on a public road or right-of-way shall be removed on a daily basis, or immediately if the presence of the materials constitutes a threat to the public health or safety. In addition to all of the remedies and relief provided herein, the police chief of the city, or the building inspector of the city, or those agents as either may designate, employ, or assign, may immediately cause to cease all work being performed at the site by the issuance of a stop work order. No further work will resume at the site until the violation is corrected and inspected by the authority that issued the stop work order and all reinspection fees that are assessed are paid in full.
(f)
Under no circumstances shall any litter, waste or debris, including, but not limited to brush, limbs, stumps, roots and other byproducts of the construction or demolition process be buried on any property not expressly and properly permitted for the activity.
Sec. 48-102. - Scavenging.
No person other than the owner thereof, or an agent or employee of the city, shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing refuse pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents thereof, or remove any the container from the location where the container has been placed by the owner thereof.
