ARTICLE V. - DEPARTMENTS AND COMMITTEES

Sec. 2-287. - Departmental organization.
The administrative service of the city shall be divided into such departments as may be recommended from time to time by the city council.
(Ord. No. 2016-5 , 6-21-2016)
Sec. 2-288. - Department heads.
Each department head shall be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of their respective department, subject to the provisions of the City of Centerville's Personnel Policy Manual, each such department head shall:
(1)
Be immediately responsible to the councilmembers over the department for the effective administration of their respective department and all activities assigned thereto;
(2)
Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field and inaugurate, with the approval of the city council, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the service and to the public;
(3)
Submit monthly activity reports of the activities of their respective department to the councilmembers over their department;
(4)
Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of department activities and to form a basis for the periodic reports to the city council; and
(5)
Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all city property and equipment used in their respective department.
(Ord. No. 2016-5 , 6-21-2016)
Sec. 2-289. - Intradepartmental cooperation.
Each department shall cooperate with every other department and shall furnish, upon the direction of the city council, any other department such service, labor, and materials as may be requisitioned by the head of each department, as its own facilities permit.
Sec. 2-290. - Appointment and composition of committees.
All committees and committee chairs, and officers of the city council shall be appointed by the city council and shall serve at the pleasure of the council. Furthermore, the city council shall have the power to appoint new members to any committee at any time. Each committee shall consist of two members of the city council and in no event shall any committee contain a sufficient number of councilmembers to constitute a quorum of the city council.
Secs. 2-291—2-313. - Reserved.
