APPENDIX A - ZONING[1]
An ordinance regulating the location, construction, and use of buildings, structures, and the use of land in the City of Trenton.
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Trenton, as adopted by the city commission on February 5, 1996. Formerly, this appendix contained the 1968 zoning ordinance. Amendments to the original ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original zoning ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. for stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text has been used to conform to the Code of Ordinances. Addition made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Charter reference— Zoning authority, § 1.13(14).
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18.

ARTICLE I. - PREAMBLE AND ENACTMENT CLAUSE

[§ 1.1. - Authority; enactment.]
The City Commission of the City of Trenton, under authority conferred by the State of Georgia Constitution of 1983, Article 9, Section 2, Paragraph 4, as amended, hereby ordains and enacts into law the following articles and sections.
ARTICLE II. - SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE

[§ 2.1. - Name; citing.]
This appendix shall be known and may be cited as `The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Trenton, Georgia."
This appendix is designed to establish regulations, procedures and standards for the Zoning of property in the City of Trenton and to foster and preserve public health, safety, comfort and welfare, and to aid in the harmonious, orderly, aesthetically pleasing and socially beneficial development of the city in accordance with the Trenton-Dade County Comprehensive Plan.
ARTICLE III. - DEFINITIONS

§ 3.1. - Interpretation of certain terms and words.
For the purpose of interpreting this appendix, certain words or terms used herein shall be defined as follows:
3.1.1 Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
3.1.2 Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
3.1.3 The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, corporation, trust, and company as well as an individual.
3.1.4 The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
3.1.5 The word "building" includes the word "structure."
3.1.6 The word "shall" is always mandatory.
3.1.7 The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied."
3.1.8 The phrase "Trenton Zoning Map," "Map," and "Zoning Map" means the "Official Zoning Map of the City of Trenton, Georgia."
§ 3.2. - List of definitions.
Except as specifically defined herein all words used in this appendix shall carry their customary meaning as defined by a standard dictionary.
Accessory use: A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use or building.
Building: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
Building line: A line established by law or agreement, usually parallel with a property line, beyond which a structure may not extend.
Building, accessory: A building subordinate or supplemental to the main building on a lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to that of a main or principal building and located on the same lot therewith.
Building, principal: A building in which is conducted the main use of the lot on which said building is located.
Canopy tree : 12 Feet in Height (Maple, Elm, Willow Oak etc.)
Dwelling: A building designed, arranged, or used for permanent living quarters for one or more persons.
Dwelling unit: A building, or portion thereof, providing complete living facilities for one family.
Family: One or more persons occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit.
Home occupation: An occupation or profession which is customarily carried on in a dwelling unit or in a building or other structure accessory to a dwelling unit; and is carried on by a member of the family residing in the dwelling unit; and is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes; and which conforms to the following additional conditions:
(1)
The occupation or profession shall be carried on wholly within the principal building or within a building or other structure accessory thereto.
(2)
Not more than one person outside the family shall be employed in the home occupation.
(3)
There shall be no exterior display, nor any exterior sign (except nameplate), no exterior storage of materials and no other exterior indication of the home occupation or variation from the residential character of the principal building.
(4)
No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare shall be produced.
A home occupation includes, but is not limited to art studio; dressmaking; barber shop or beauty parlor; professional office of a physician, dentist, lawyer, engineer, architect, accountant; or musical instruction limited to a single pupil at a time.
Junk yard: Any such use involving the storage or disassembly of wrecked automobiles, trucks, or other vehicles; storage, bailing or otherwise dealing in bones, animal hides, scrap metal, used paper, used cloth, used plumbing fixtures and used brick, wood, or other building materials. Such uses shall be considered junk yards whether or not all or part of such operation are conducted inside a building or in conjunction with, addition to, or accessory to, other uses of the premises.
Lot: A portion or parcel of land devoted to a common use or occupied by a building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
Lot, depth of: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
Lot, width of: The distance between side lot lines measured at the building line.
Manufactured home: A structure that is transportation in one or more sections which are built on a permanent chassis and has been designed to be used as a dwelling with or without permanent foundation. This structure, when connected to the required utilities (which includes plumbing, heating and air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein) bears a label certifying that it is constructed in compliance with the National Manufacturing Housing and Construction Safety Standards Act (42 USC 5401 et. seq.), as amended, U.S. Public Law 93-383, as amended. This definition is different than that of a "mobile home."
Manufactured home multi-unit: A detached single-family dwelling unit constructed in two or more units with similar marriage walls with wheels for movement (whether or not such wheels are later removed) and which has plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems, whether or not such unit is subsequently installed on a permanent foundation or other internal or external changes are made.
Manufactured home park: A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for the placement of mobile/manufactured homes for non-transient use.
Mobile home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on-site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
Nonconforming use: A building, structure, or use of land existing at the time of enactment of this appendix, and which does not conform to the regulations of the district in which it was located.
Rooming or boarding house: A dwelling, other than a hotel or lodging house, where meals or housing accommodations, for three or more persons are provided for hire.
Shrub: One foot in height (Abelia, Gray Owl Juniper, Buford Holly and Indian Hawthorn etc.)
Sign, business: An attached or free-standing structure which directs attention to a business or profession conducted on the premises.
Sign, outdoor advertising: A structural poster panel or painted sign, either free-standing or attached to the outside of a building, for the purpose of conveying information, knowledge, or ideas to the public about a subject either related or unrelated to the premises upon which the sign is located.
Street: A public way which affords the principal means to access to abutting properties.
Street, primary: A street or thoroughfare designated as a major or collector street in the Major Thoroughfare Plan of the City of Trenton.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location on the ground, or attachment to something having location on the ground.
Understory tree: Four feet in height (Eastern Redbud, Dogwood, and Natchez Crepe Myrtle Etc.)
Yard: A space on the same lot with a principal building open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings, or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
Yard, front: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street and the front lines of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, rear: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, side: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, situated between the building and the side lot line of the lot and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. Any side lot line not a rear line or a front line shall be deemed a side line.
(Ord. of 10-15-2019(1))
ARTICLE IV. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

§ 4.1. - Division into districts.
For the purpose of this appendix, the city is divided into eleven districts designated as follows:
R-1 Residential District
R-A Residential Agricultural District
R-2 Residential District
R-3 Residential District
R-4 Residential District
R-5 Residential District
B-1 Central Business-Retail District
B-2 Business-Retail District
B-3 Business-General District
M-1 Manufacturing District
B-R Business Residential District
Any district boundary may include a combination of two or more of the above designations in a single district boundary.
(Ord. of 7-6-98)
§ 4.2. - District boundaries.
The boundaries of each district are shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map, Trenton, Georgia," adopted and certified by the city clerk. Said map and all explanatory matter thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this appendix. Said map shall be retained in the office of the city clerk.
§ 4.3. - Rules for determining boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
4.3.1 Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streets or highways, street lines, or right-of-way lines, such centerlines, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
4.3.2 Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries.
4.3.3 Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map.
4.3.4 Where a district boundary line, as appearing on the zoning map, divides a lot in single ownership at the time of this enactment, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided that such extensions shall not include any part of such a lot more than thirty-five (35) feet beyond the district boundary line.
ARTICLE V. - SCHEDULE OF USES AND REGULATIONS

[§ 5.1 - Table]
EXPAND
Minimum Yard Dimension
Minimum Lot Size Side
Districts Permitted Uses Conditional
Use* Minimum
Home
Size Area
(sq. feet) Width
(feet) Lot
Coverage
Percent of Total Lot Maximum Building Height
(stories) Front**
(feet) One
(ft.) Both
(ft.) Rear
(ft.)
R-A Residential Agriculture R-1 Permitted & Conditional Uses —Same as below—
Farm, Nursery, Truck Garden 5 acres 35 10 25 25
Public Utility Station 35 10 25 25
Customary Agricultural Operation
Customary Accessory Use of Building Two-family dwelling
R-1 Residential One-Family Dwelling 800
sq. ft.
living
space 10,000 100 25%  2½ 35 10 25 25
Church 10,000 100 20% 3 35 10 25 25
Elementary School 8 acres 100 3 50 25 50 50
High School 5 acres 100 3 3 50 25 50 50
Park
Home Occupation Located within One-Family
Dwelling
Accessory Building Public Utility Station 35 10 25 25
R-2 Residential One-Family Dwelling 500
sq. ft.
living
space  8,000  80 25%  2½ 25 10 25 25
Two-Family Dwelling 10,000  80 30%  2½ 25 10 25 30
Rooming House 10,000  80 30%  2½ 25 10 25 30
Multi-Family Dwelling (3 or more units) 4,000/du 100 35% 3 25 10 25 50
Nursing Home 40,000 200 25%  2½ 40 20 50 50
Clubs-Lodges 10,000  80 25%  2½ 25 10 25 50
Church  8,000  80 25% 3 25 10 25 25
Home Occupation Located within One-Family
Dwelling
Accessory Building
Public Utility Station 25 10 25 25
Mobile Home  8,000  80 25%  2½ 25 10 25 25
Manufactured Home*1
R-3 Residential Two-family dwelling 10,000 80 30% 2 ½ 25 10 25 30
R-4 Residential Multi-family dwelling (3+ units) 4,000/du 100 35% 3 25 10 25 50
R-5 Residential Manufacture D home + 1 Mobile home manufactured home + 1 8,000 80 25 25
25 10
10 25
25 25
25
B-1 Central Business Retail Retail Stores 4 30
Personal Service Shops 4 30
Launderette 4 30
Bank, Studio, Office Building 4 30
Public Building 4 30
Restaurant 4 30
Motel, Hotel 4 30
Theaters 4 30
Bowling Alleys 4 30
Funeral Home 4 30
Bus Station 4 30
Utility Station 4 30
Accessory Buildings 4 30
Newspaper Plant 4 30
Clinic 4 30
Park & Playground 4 30
Service Station 10,000 100 20% 1 50 25 50 50
Auto Sales 10,000 100 — 1 25 10 25 50
Drive-in Restaurants 10,000 100 20% 1 50 25 50 50
B-2 Business-Retail B-1 Permitted Uses  8,000  80 25% 20 10 25 30
B-1 Conditional
Uses Same as B-1 Uses
B-3 Business-General B-1 Permitted Uses  8,000  80 25% 20 10 25 30
Service Station 10,000 100 20% 1 35 20 50 30
Auto Sales 10,000 100 20% 1 35 20 50 30
Drive-in Restaurants 10,000 100 20% 1 35 20 50 30
Shopping Center 2 acres 100 25% 1 35 20 50 30
M-1 Manufacturing B-1 Permitted and Conditional Uses Same as B-1 Uses
Manufacturing of Textile and Leather Goods 40% 40 30 70 50
Manufacturing of Dairy or Other Food Products 40% 40 30 70 50
Cold Storage Plant 40% 40 30 70 50
Light Manufacturing or Assembly Plants 40% 40 30 70 50
Manufacturing of Electrical Appliance or Instruments 40% 40 30 70 50
Manufacturing of Plastic, Paint, Fiber, Wood, Stone, or Concrete Products 40% 40 30 70 50
Tool, Die, Pattern or Machine Shop 40% 40 30 70 50
Welding or Metal Shop 40% 40 30 70 50
Lumber or Building Material, Sales or Storage 40% 40 30 70 50
Accessory Building or Use 40% 40 30 70 50
Sewerage Treatment Plant 40% 40 30 70 50
B-R Business-Residential All R-2
permitted uses
All B-3
permitted uses
Crematories
As required in R-2 and B-3 District
All R-2 conditional uses
   * Conditional uses are subject to the regulations in the schedule, as well as the approval of the location of the proposed conditional use by the Trenton Planning Commission.
** Front yard distance is measured between the front of the principal building and the street right-of-way.
*1 A Manufactured Home meeting Compatibility Standards is a permitted use;
*1 A Manufactured Home not meeting the Compatibly Standards is a conditional use.
(Ord. No. 7-6-98; Ord. No. 14/01, § 1, 9-22-14; Ord. No. 15/02, § 1, 4-18-15; Ord. of 05-13-2019(1))
ARTICLE VI. - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
Except as hereinafter provided:

§ 6.1. - Use.
No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located
§ 6.2. - Height; density; facade.
(a)
No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
(1)
To exceed the height limits;
(2)
To accommodate or house a greater number of families or occupy a smaller lot area per family, or
(3)
To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or other open spaces than are herein required or specified; or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this appendix.
(b)
Facade design requirements for buildings.
(1)
All new construction, additions to existing buildings and reconstructed buildings that have been damaged by fire or natural occurrence (tornado, flood, earthquake, etc.) to the point of the necessity to be demolished and
(2)
All faces of a building's exterior facade that can be viewed from the public right of ways of Highway 11 or Highway 136.
(3)
All sides of a building impact the surroundings and should be considered and treated with an architectural finish of primary materials to include brick, wood and stone, unless other materials are used that are demonstrated to be of equal or greater quality. Other materials, sometimes referred to as secondary materials, include (but are not limited to) wood and metal. These materials may be used in conjunction with primary materials, but only for decorative elements and trim.
(4)
Building materials should be similar to the materials used on nearby existing buildings in the downtown development district (assuming these material meet the standards set forth in this ordinance). If nearby building materials do not meet the standard, building materials should reflect the higher standards of selected buildings in the downtown area. Brick may be used on new commercial buildings and for rehabilitation of existing brick buildings. Brick and stone masonry are considered compatible with wood siding.
(5)
Building materials should not create glare. Highly reflective materials such as unfinished aluminum, unpainted metal, and reflective glass are not permitted. Clear glass windows, with or without panes, shall be used for commercial storefront display windows and doors.
(6)
Exposed rough or re-sawn siding and exposed, untreated concrete, plain, or painted concrete blocks are not permitted.
(7)
The following types of building materials are not generally attractive and are not be used: smooth-faced concrete block, tilt-up concrete panels, or prefabricated steel panels, highly reflective, shiny, or mirror-like materials; mill-finish (non-colored) aluminum metal windows or door frames; exposed, unfinished foundation walls; exposed plywood or particle board; un-plastered, exposed concrete masonry blocks; and synthetic or metal siding.
(Ord. of 05-10-2021(2))
§ 6.3. - Yard service to one building.
No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space required about, or in connection with, any building for the purpose of complying with this appendix, shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
§ 6.4. - Only one principal building.
Every building or structure hereafter erected shall be located on a lot or tract as defined herein; and there shall not be more than one principal building on one lot, plus its accessory buildings, except as provided in article VII, section 7.4 of this appendix.
§ 6.5. - Reduction of lot area.
No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in size so that the lot width or depth, front, side or rear yard, lot area per family, or other requirements of this appendix, are not maintained. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public purposes.
§ 6.6. - Street frontage.
No principal building shall be erected on any lot which does not have immediate frontage on at least one street for a distance of not less than 25 feet.
§ 6.7. - Corner and double-frontage lots.
On lots having frontage on more than one street in residential districts, the minimum front yard shall be provided for each street in accordance with the provisions of this appendix.
§ 6.8. - Inspection of required buffers.
In the event a screen, wall, fence, planted dividing strip, or any other type of buffer is required by this appendix for any use, such screen, wall, etc., will be subjected to periodic inspections by the building official to determine that such required walls, fences, etc., are being properly maintained. Failure to maintain such required walls, fences, etc., to an acceptable standard may be deemed a violation of this appendix.
§ 6.9. - Landscape for commercial zoning.
Landscaping for any parking lot of 20 or more spaces shall provide interior landscaping according to the following standards. For each 20 parking spaces there shall be required adjacent to the parking spaces three-canopy trees, two understory trees and six shrubs. Unless otherwise specifically indicated by the planning commission, all plant materials required shall meet the following minimum size standards, when planted. All landscaping must be comprised entirely of non-invasive species, which are native to the Northwest Georgia region.
(Ord. of 10-15-2019(1))
ARTICLE VII. - SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS

§ 7.1. - Lots of record.
Single lots: Where the owner of a lot at the time of the adoption of this appendix or his successor in title thereto does not own sufficient land to enable him to conform to the dimensional requirements of this appendix, such lot may be used as a building site for a single-family residence in a district where residences are permitted.
Adjoining lots: If two or more adjoining lots with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at any time after the adoption of this appendix and such lots individually are too small to meet the yard, width, and area requirements of the district in which they are located, such groups of lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of minimum permitted size and the lot or lots in one ownership shall be subject to the requirements of this appendix.
§ 7.2. - Front yard setbacks for dwellings.
The setback requirements of this appendix for dwellings shall not apply to any lot where the average existing building setback line on lots located wholly or in part within 100 feet on each side of such lot, within the same block and zoning district, and fronting on the same side of the street as such lot, is less than the minimum setback required. In such cases the setback on such lots may be less than the required setback, but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the aforementioned lots, and in no case less than ten feet from the street right-of-way.
§ 7.3. - Height limits.
The height limitations of this appendix shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water towers, observation towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks, conveyors, flag poles, radio towers, television towers, masts, aerials and similar structures.
§ 7.4. - Group projects.
A group project (including, but not limited to, residential, commercial, industrial, educational, medical, religious, or civic uses) of two or more buildings to be constructed on a plot of land at least two acres not subdivided into customary streets and lots, and which will not be so subdivided, may be constructed provided:
7.4.1 Such uses are limited to those permitted within the district in which the project is located;
7.4.2 The overall intensity of land use is no higher, and the standard of open space is no lower than that permitted in the district in which the project is located;
7.4.3 The distance of every building from the nearest property line shall meet the front yard setback and side yard requirements of the district in which the project is located;
7.4.4 The building heights do not exceed the height limits permitted in the district in which the project is located.
7.4.5 On property that lies within or abuts upon a residential district, there shall be a ten-foot planted buffer strip along the rear and/or side yard lines abutting the residential properties.
§ 7.5. - Permitting of manufactured and mobile homes to be located or relocated in Trenton, Georgia.
A.
No manufactured home or mobile home may be located, stored, placed, rented, occupied or used in any manner whatsoever in the city without an appropriate building permit/placement permit. Building permit/placement permits required by this section must be prominently displayed on the front window of each manufactured home or mobile home during movement or placement so that the same is clearly visible for a distance of 25 feet. It shall be unlawful for any manufactured home to be placed in the city, without a valid building permit/placement permit being clearly visible on said manufactured home or mobile home.
Any person desiring to move, store, locate, place or relocate a manufactured home or mobile home within the city must obtain a building permit/placement permit prior to moving, locating, placing, storing or relocating such manufactured home or mobile home. Any person desiring to rent, occupy or use a manufactured home or mobile home already located in the city must first ascertain whether such manufactured home or mobile home has a valid building permit/placement permit as required by this section. If such manufactured home or mobile home does not have a valid building permit/placement permit, then an appropriate building permit/placement permit must be obtained prior to occupancy or use.
Applications shall be submitted on forms provided by the city and accompanied by a fee as shown on the city's schedule of fees. Building permit/placement permits will be issued to applicants provided that all of the requirements of this appendix are met.
If an application is denied, then the applicant within 15 days of such decision may file an appeal, which request must be in writing with the zoning appeals board, which, after affording the applicant notice and a public hearing shall either grant the application or deny it, and such decision shall be final.
B.
Building permit/placement permits for manufactured homes or mobile homes shall remain valid until one of the following events occurs, whichever event occurs first:
1.
Such manufactured home or mobile home is moved from its present approved building permit/placement permit site or location. Each time a manufactured home or mobile home moves or relocates within the city a new building permit/placement permit must be obtained; or
2.
Such manufactured home or mobile home is declared to be untenable, a nuisance, or health hazard by the appropriate governmental authority.
C.
Exceptions:
1.
Campers and travel trailers are not required to conform to the terms of this section unless used for living purposes and in that case must comply with all applicable requirements.
2.
Manufactured homes located on manufactured home sales lots as inventory for purposes of resale or within the confines of a warehouse are not required to conform to the terms of this section.
§ 7.6. - Manufactured homes located outside of manufactured home parks.
A.
Intent: It is the intent of this appendix to encourage the provision of affordable housing in a general residential environment by permitting the use of manufactured homes in R- 2 residential districts in which similar dwellings; constructed on the site are permitted, subject to the requirements and procedures set forth herein to assure similarity in exterior appearance between such residentially designed manufactured homes and dwellings which have been constructed under these and other lawful regulations on adjacent lots in the same district zoning classification or general area.
Manufactured homes meeting the compatibility standards, either individually or by specific model, shall be permitted in R-2 residential districts subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in this appendix which are applicable to manufactured homes and the requirements and limitations applying generally to residential use in such zoning classifications or districts, including minimum lots, yard and building spacing, percentage of lot coverage, off-street parking requirements and approved foundations as described herein.
Permitted locations: Manufactured homes which meet the standards established in this appendix shall be allowed in R-2 residential districts (see tables, article V).
Compatibility Standards for manufactured homes are as follows:
1.
Manufactured homes qualifying as a dwelling, shall be compared to site built and other housing in the immediate general area within the same zoning or residential district or area. Approval shall be granted upon the finding that the manufactured home is substantially similar in size, siding material, roof material, foundation and general aesthetic appearance to (i) site built or other forms of housing which may be permitted in the same general area under this appendix or (ii) existing development or (iii) proposed development in the same zoning district or area.
2.
All towing devices, wheels, axles and hitches must be removed.
3.
At each exit door there must be a landing that is a minimum of 36 inches by 36 inches.
4.
Minimum width 16 feet or greater.
5.
Minimum lot size and maximum lot coverage required as specified in Table 5.1.
6.
The roof shall have a minimum 2:12 roof pitch and shall have a surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles, slate, built up gravel materials or other materials approved by the building official.
7.
The exterior siding materials shall consist of wood, masonry, concrete, stucco, masonite, metal or vinyl lap designed for such purposes or other materials of like appearance
8.
Be attached to a permanent foundation. (as specified for dwellings in the current CABO One and Two-Family Dwelling Code).
9.
Be constructed according to standards established either by the State Minimum Standard Codes as amended from time to time or the Georgia State Building Code if locally adopted or the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act or the State of Georgia Industrialized Buildings Act.
10.
Manufactured homes and modular homes placed in residential zoning districts or areas shall meet the minimum compatibility standards set forth in this section.
11.
The building official may approve deviations from one or more of the developmental or architectural standards provided herein on the basis of a finding that the materials to be utilized or the architectural style proposed for the dwelling will be compatible and harmonious with existing structures in the vicinity.
12.
These compatibility standards are not applicable and shall not be applied to manufactured homes, other manufactured homes or mobile homes when located in a manufactured home rental community or park or mobile home rental community or park.
B.
Other manufactured homes and mobile homes. Conditional use locations: Manufactured homes and mobile homes which do not conform to the standards established in section 7.06A shall be a conditional use permitted within areas designated or utilized in RA, R-2, 3-R and manufactured home parks provided that each home complies with the district standards in which it is located.
C.
The following alternate compatibility standards for placement of manufactured homes not meeting the standards set forth in section 7.5(A) and mobile homes built before June 15, 1976 shall apply:
1.
A 30-foot setback is required from any other dwelling unit on-site.
2.
Structure must be connected to the water and sewage system (including well and septic tank, if applicable) approved by the health department.
3.
In the event minimum installation standards have not been adopted by the State of Georgia, the structure must be installed according to the manufacturer's installation instructions when available or Appendix "H" of the Georgia State Building Code.
4.
The area beneath each such structure must be enclosed with materials manufactured for such purposes, including but not limited to brick, concrete, rock or other materials which have been approved by the building official.
5.
A manufactured home or mobile home when used as an accessory structure or dwelling shall be located to the rear of the principal structure.
D.
Additional requirements applicable to all manufactured homes or mobile homes.
1.
Conformity with all applicable site development standards as required in this appendix.
2.
No more than one dwelling or manufactured home or mobile home may be placed on a lot or parcel of land.
3.
The regulations of the city and health department regarding sanitary facilities, water supply, electrical systems, and sewage disposal shall be met.
4.
Any manufactured home or mobile home on an individual lot shall be required to be skirted/underpinned (the area beneath each such home must be enclosed with materials manufactured for such purposes, including but not limited to, brick, concrete, rock, aluminum or other materials which have been approved by the city building official), and anchored within 30 days of installation as defined in article III, list of definitions. An extension of time (not to exceed 30 days may be granted in hardship cases if adequate evidence is submitted to the board of zoning appeals prior to the 60-day deadline for completion.
§ 7.7. - Mobile homes built before June 15, 1976 (pre-HUD homes).
The regulations of the city and health department regarding construction, sanitary facilities, water supply, electrical systems, and sewage disposal shall be met.
§ 7.8. - Temporary building permit/placement permits for manufactured homes and mobile homes.
A.
Temporary building permit/placement permits shall be issued for travel trailers used for living purposes; manufactured homes or mobile homes temporarily used as office space; and manufactured homes or mobile homes temporarily parked and used as a bona fide construction office, storage place or quarters of a night watchman at a construction site provided that all of the following conditions and requirements are complied with:
1.
The regulations of the city and health department regarding sanitary facilities, water supply, and sewage disposal shall be met.
2.
A temporary building permit/placement permit shall be valid for a period of one year from date of issuance.
§ 7.9. - Crematories.
Crematory shall be defined as defined by O.C.G.A. § 43-18-1(6), as amended.
A crematory may locate in a B-R Business-Residential District as a conditional use. A crematory must meet all of the following special conditions, to-wit:
(a)
Every operator of a crematory must have at all times all necessary valid licenses and permits required by federal, State of Georgia, City of Trenton, Georgia, Dade County, Georgia, and any governmental agencies that have jurisdiction over crematories.
(b)
Each crematory must at all times comply with all federal, State of Georgia, Dade County, and City of Trenton laws and ordinances (in effect as of the date of this ordinance, and as may be amended or enacted in the future), regarding the operation of a crematory, including but not limited to O.C.G.A., §§ 43-18-70, et.al.
(c)
Each crematory must at all times comply with all federal, State of Georgia, Dade County, and City of Trenton rules, regulations, and codes, and all rules, regulations, and codes of any governmental agency that has jurisdiction over crematories (in effect as of the date of this ordinance, and as may be amended or enacted in the future), regarding the operation of a crematory, including but not limited to the Georgia State Board of Funeral Services Regulations.
(d)
Each crematory must comply with any and all conditions and safeguards as required by the Planning Commission or the City Commission of the City of Trenton, including conditions and safeguards that effect the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the City of Trenton.
(e)
Each crematory must conform to the zoning requirements of the B-R Business-Residential District.
(Ord. No. 14/01, § 2, 9-22-14)
ARTICLE VIII. - OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE PARKING AND LOADING AND UNLOADING

§ 8.1. - Off-street parking.
Off-street automobile parking or storage space shall be provided on every lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established. Such automobile parking or storage space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley and shall be equal in area to at least the minimum requirements for the specific use as set forth hereafter.
8.1.1 If the required automobile parking or storage space cannot be provided on the same lot on which the principal use is located, the board of zoning appeals may permit such space to be provided on other off-street property provided such space is within 500 feet of such principal use. Such space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
8.1.2 All off-street automobile parking and storage space in residential districts shall be so arranged that vehicles will not be required to back onto a public street, road, or highway when leaving the premises.
8.1.3 All off-street automobile parking and storage spaces shall have a minimum length of 20 feet and a minimum width of nine feet.
Schedule of Off-Street Parking Requirements
EXPAND
Use Classification Minimum Requirements
Single-family residential structures One space for each dwelling unit
Two-family and multi-family residential structures 1.5 spaces for each dwelling unit
Rooming and boardinghouses; hotels One space for each two rooms
Churches; synagogues, or other places of worship One space for each four individual seats in the main assembly room
Fraternal organizations; and other places of public assembly One space for each four individual seats in the main assembly room
Tourist homes, tourist courts, or motels One space for each room
Hospitals, nursing homes, or similar institutions One space for each two beds intended for patients, plus one space for each three employees
Retail business One space for each 100 square feet of sales area
Offices, including banks One space for each 200 square feet of total floor area
Filling stations Two spaces for each gas pump plus three spaces for each grease rack or similar facility
Mortuary or funeral parlor One space for each four seats in the chapel, one additional space for each two employees, one additional space for each resident family, and one additional space for each funeral vehicle
Restaurant or similar eating establishment One space for each four seats provided for patron use and one additional space for each two employees
Wholesaling One space for each two employees
Industrial One space for each two employees at maximum employment on a single shift
Schools One space for each ten seats in the main assembly room
  § 8.2. - Off-street loading and unloading.
Every building or structure used for business, trade or industry, shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading of vehicles off the street or public alley. Such space shall have access to an alley or if there is no alley, to a street. Such space shall be so arranged that no vehicle is required to back onto a public street, road, or highway in order to leave the premises. All off-street loading and unloading spaces shall have a minimum length of 50 feet and minimum width of ten feet.
6.4.1 Retail business: One space for truck loading and unloading for each 3,009 square feet of floor area or any part thereof.
6.4.2 Wholesale and industry: One space for each 10,000 square feet of floor area or any part thereof.
6.4.3 Bus and truck terminals: Sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of bused or trucks to be stored or to be loaded or unloaded at the terminal at any one time.
ARTICLE IX. - CONTINUANCE OF A NONCONFORMING USE

§ 9.1. - Limitations.
Any building, structure, or use of land existing at the time of the enactment or subsequent amendment of this appendix but not in conformity with its use regulations and provisions, may be continued subject to the following limitations. A nonconforming use shall not be:
(1)
Changed to another nonconforming use;
(2)
Extended or enlarged;
(3)
Reestablished after discontinuance for 12 consecutive months; or
(4)
Rebuilt, altered, or repaired after damage exceeding 50 percent of the value of the building. The value shall be computed from the amount the building is assessed for tax purposes by the city.
ARTICLE X. - ADMINISTRATION

§ 10.1. - Zoning enforcement officer.
The provisions of this appendix shall be administered and enforced by the building official.
§ 10.2. - Building permit required.
It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation or filling of any lot for any construction of any building, or to commence construction of any building, or to commence the moving or alteration of any building or to commence the development of land for a use not requiring a building, until the building official has issued a building permit for such work.
§ 10.3. - Application for building permit.
All applications to the building official for building permits shall be accompanied by one complete set of plans, drawn to scale, showing:
10.3.1 The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
10.3.2 The size of the building to be erected;
10.3.3 The location of the building on the lot;
10.3.4 The location of existing structures on the lot, if any;
10.3.5 The number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate;
10.3.6 The setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots;
10.3.7 The layout of off-street parking and loading spaces; and
Such other information as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this appendix are being observed.
§ 10.4. - Construction progress.
Any building permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it shall have been commenced within six months of the date of issue or if the work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one year.
§ 10.5. - Certificate of occupancy required.
A certificate of occupancy issued by the building official is required in advance of occupancy or use of:
(1)
A building hereafter erected, altered or moved.
(2)
A change in use in any building or land.
(3)
Each nonconforming use created by the passage of and subsequent amendments to this appendix. The owner of the nonconforming use shall obtain a certificate of occupancy within 30 days of the date of said passage of amendments.
10.5.1 Upon payment of any required fees, the building official shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy if the proposed use of land or building, as stated on the certificate of occupancy and signed by the owner or his appointed agent, is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this appendix, and if the building, as finally constructed, complies with the plans submitted for the building permit.
§ 10.6. - Denial of certificate of occupancy.
A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this appendix, or unless the building, as finally constructed, complies with the sketch or plan upon which the building permit was issued. The building official shall state in writing the reasons for denying such certificate of occupancy.
§ 10.7. - Penalties for violation.
Any person violating any provision of this appendix shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished for each offense according to law. Each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
§ 10.8. - Remedies.
In case any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building or land is used in violation of this appendix, the building official, or any other appropriate city authority or any person who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action in proceeding to prevent the violation in the case of each building or use of land.
ARTICLE XI. - BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS

§ 11.1. - Establishment of board of appeals.
A board of zoning appeals is hereby established. Said board shall consist of three (3) member-appointed by the city commission. The appointment of members to the board zoning of appeals and the terms of the members of the board of zoning appeals shall be at the pleasure of the city commission.
§ 11.2. - Proceedings of the board of zoning appeals.
11.2.1 The board of zoning appeals shall elect a chairman and a vice chairman from its members who shall serve for one year or until reelected or until their successors are elected. The board shall appoint a secretary, who may be a municipal officer, an employee of the city, or a member of the planning commission. The board may adopt rules and by-laws in accordance with the provisions of this appendix and the standards for zoning procedures, as amended, of the State of Georgia.
11.2.2 Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the vice chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena.
11.2.3 The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep record of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the board and shall be a public record.
11.2.4 All meetings of the board of zoning appeals shall be open to the public.
§ 11.3. - Powers and duties of the board of zoning appeals.
The board of zoning appeals shall have the following powers and duties:
11.3.1 Administrative review: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the building official in the enforcement of this appendix.
11.3.2 Variances: To authorize upon application in specific cases such variance from the terms of the ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance will, in an individual case, result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. (The existence of a nonconforming use of neighboring land, buildings, or structures in the same district or of permitted or nonconforming uses in other districts shall not constitute a reason for the requested variance.) Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the board zoning of appeals that all of the following conditions exist:
(1)
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography;
(2)
The application of this appendix to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship on the applicant;
(3)
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and
(4)
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this appendix, provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by this appendix.
§ 11.4. - Appeals, hearings, and notice.
Appeals to the board of appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the City of Trenton affected by any decision of the building official. Such appeal shall be taken within 60 days, by filing with the building official and with the board of appeals a written notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The building official shall forthwith transmit to the board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
11.4.1 The board of zoning appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals or other matters referred to it, and give at least 15 days public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon a hearing, any party may appear in person, or by agent or by attorney.
§ 11.5. - Stay of proceedings.
An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the building official certifies to the board of zoning appeals after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than be a restraining order which may be granted by the board of zoning appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the building official, and on due cause shown.
§ 11.6. - Decisions of the board of appeals.
In exercising its powers, the board of zoning appeals may, in conformity with the provisions of this appendix, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the building official and may issue or direct the issuance of a building permit.
11.6.1 The concurring vote of two members of the board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the building official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter on which it required to pass under this appendix or to affect any variation of this appendix.
11.6.2 On all appeals, applications and other matters brought before the board zoning of appeals, said board shall inform, in writing, all the parties involved of it decisions and the reasons therefor. Recourse from decision by the board of zoning appeals shall be to court of competent jurisdiction in such matters.
ARTICLE XII. - AMENDMENTS

§ 12.1. - Authority.
This appendix, including the Official Zoning Map, Trenton Georgia may be amended from time to time. If, at the time of proposed amendment, there is in existence a functioning Trenton Planning Commission, no such amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by, or shall first have been submitted to, the Trenton Planning Commission for review and recommendation. The Trenton Planning Commission shall have 30 days within which to submit its report. If the planning commission fails to submit a report within the 30-day period it shall be deemed to have approved the proposed amendment. If, at the time of a proposed amendment, no Trenton Planning Commission is in existence and functioning, none of the requirements regarding said commission shall be required in order for an amendment to this appendix to become effective.
§ 12.2. - Procedure—Public notice.
Before enacting an amendment to this appendix, the city commission shall have a public hearing thereon. At least 15 but not more then 45 days prior to the date of the public hearing, the city commission shall cause to be published with a newspaper of general circulation within the City of Trenton notice of the hearing. The notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of the hearings. The notice shall also include the location of the property, the zoning classification for the property and the proposed amendment. A sign, containing the required public notice information shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property not less than 15 days prior to the hearing.
§ 12.3. - Procedures—Defeated amendments.
If the zoning decision before the city commission is for the rezoning of property and the amendment to the zoning ordinance to accomplish the rezoning is defeated by the city commission, then the same property may not again be considered for rezoning until the expiration of at least six months immediately following the defeat of the rezoning by the city commission.
§ 12.4. - Standards for considering zoning decisions.
Trenton shall consider the following when considering an amendment to the zoning ordinance or map:
(1)
Existing land uses and zoning of nearby property;
(2)
The extent to which the property values of the subject property are diminished by the particular zoning restrictions;
(3)
The extent to which the destruction of property values of the subject property promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public;
(4)
The relative gain to the public, as compared to the hardship imposed upon the individual property owner;
(5)
The suitability of the subject property for the then zoned purposes;
(6)
The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned considered in the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of the property;
(7)
Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools;
(8)
If the city commission has an adopted land use plan, whether the zoning proposal is in conformity with the policy and intent of the land use plan.
§ 12.5. - Official zoning map changes.
Any amendment to the zoning ordinance requiring a change in district boundaries shall be shown on the official zoning map on the date the amendment becomes effective. Such change shall be noted, dated and signed by the Mayor of the City of Trenton.
§ 12.6. - Periodic review of zoning ordinance.
From time to time at intervals of not less than five years, the planning commission, if existing shall re-examine the provisions of this appendix and the location of district boundary lines and may recommend changes as may be desirable in the interest of public safety, health, convenience, necessity, land use and/or the general welfare.
ARTICLE XIII. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

§ 13.1. - Conflict with other regulations.
Whenever the regulations of this appendix require a greater width or size of yards, courts, or other open spaces, or require a lower height of buildings or number of stories, or require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other statute, the regulations and requirements of this appendix shall govern.
Whenever the provisions of any other statute or ordinance require more restrictive standards than are required by this appendix, the provisions of such statute or ordinance will govern.
§ 13.2. - Separability.
Should any section or provision of this appendix be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid such declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
§ 13.3. - Effective date.
This appendix shall take effect and be in force from and after its adoption, the public welfare of the City of Trenton demanding it.
ARTICLE XIV. - MISCELLANEOUS

§ 14.1. - [Reference to joint commission.]
Whenever this appendix refers to the Trenton Planning Commission, should at any time such a commission not be in existence and operating, said ordinance shall be read as if no such provision was a part of this appendix.
§ 14.2. - [Repealed.]
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE XV. - TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS
"Telecommunications Towers" may be located in M-1 as a conditional use provided such Telecommunications Towers meet the following requirements:

§ 15.1. - Definitions:
As used in this ordinance, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
A.
"Alternative tower structure" means any clock towers, bell towers, church steeples, light/power poles, electric transmission towers, man-made trees (without accessory buildings/structures), and similar natural or man-made alternative design mounting structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
B.
"Antenna" means any exterior apparatus designed for the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves for telephonic, radio, television or personal wireless services. For the purposes of this ordinance the term "antenna" does not include any tower and antenna under seventy (70) feet in total height which is owned and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the federal communications commission, any device designed for over-the-air reception of radio or television broadcast signals, multichannel multipoint distribution service or direct broadcast satellite services, or any cable television headend or hub tower and antennae used solely for cable television services.
C.
"Co-location" means the placement of the antennas of two or more service providers upon a single tower or alternative tower structure.
D.
"Director" means the chairman of the City of Trenton Planning Commission or his/her designee.
E.
"Governing body" means the city commission for the City of Trenton.
F.
"Monopole tower" means a telecommunications tower consisting of a single pole, constructed without guy wires or ground anchors.
G.
"Telecommunications facilities" refers to antennae and towers, either individually or together.
H.
"Tower" means a structure, such as a lattice tower, guy tower, or monopole tower, constructed as a free-standing structure or in association with a building, other permanent structure or equipment, on which is located one or more antennae intended for transmitting or receiving analog, digital, microwave, cellular, telephone, personal wireless service or similar forms of electronic communication. The term includes microwave towers, common carrier towers, and cellular telephone towers.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § I)
§ 15.2. - Exclusions.
The following shall be exempt from this ordinance.
A.
Any tower and antenna under seventy (70) feet in total height which is owned and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission;
B.
Any device designed for over-the-air reception of television broadcast signals, multichannel multipoint distribution service or direct broadcast satellite service; or
C.
Any telecommunications facilities located on property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the City of Trenton provided a license or lease authorizing the telecommunications facility has been approved by the governing body.
D.
Any cable television headend or hub towers and antennae used solely for cable television services.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § II)
§ 15.3. - Co-location; availability of suitable existing structures.
No new tower, except amateur radio towers, shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the planning commission and the board of appeals that no existing tower or existing alternative tower structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna. All evidence submitted shall be signed and sealed by appropriate licensed professionals or qualified industry experts. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing tower or alternative tower structure can accommodate the proposed antenna shall consist of one or more of the following:
A.
That no existing towers or suitable alternative tower structures are located within the geographic antenna placement area required to meet the applicant's engineering requirements.
B.
That no existing towers or suitable alternative tower structures are of sufficient height to meet the applicant's engineering requirements.
C.
That existing towers or suitable alternative tower structures do not have sufficient structural strength to support the applicant's antenna and related equipment.
D.
That the applicant's proposed antenna(s) would cause electromagnetic interference with the antenna(s) on the existing towers or suitable alternative tower structures, or the antenna(s) on the existing towers or suitable alternative tower structure would cause such interference with the applicant's proposed antenna(s).
E.
That the cost or contractual provisions required by the existing tower or suitable alternative tower structure owner to share an existing tower or suitable alternative tower structure or to adapt an existing tower or suitable alternative tower structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower development are presumed to be unreasonable.
F.
That the applicant adequately demonstrates that there are other limiting factors that render existing towers or suitable alternative tower structures unsuitable.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § III)
§ 15.4. - Requirements for telecommunications facilities.
A.
General requirements for all telecommunications facilities: The requirements set forth in this section shall govern the location and construction of all telecommunications facilities governed by this ordinance.
1.
Building codes and safety standards: To ensure the structural integrity of telecommunications facilities, the owner of a telecommunications facility shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable local building codes and the applicable standards for such telecommunications facilities, as amended from time to time. Owners of telecommunications facilities shall conduct periodic inspections of such facilities at least once every year to ensure structural integrity. Inspections shall be conducted by qualified, independent engineer licensed to practice in Georgia. The results of such inspection shall be provided to the director.
2.
Regulator compliance
a.
All telecommunications facilities must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC and any other agency of the state or federal government with the authority to regulate telecommunications facilities. If such standards and regulations are changed then the owners of the telecommunications facilities governed by this ordinance shall bring such telecommunications facilities into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within the date established by the agency promulgating the standards or regulations.
b.
Owners of telecommunications facilities shall provide documentation showing that each telecommunications facility is in compliance with all applicable federal and state requirements. Evidence of compliance must be submitted every 12 months.
3.
Security: All telecommunications facilities shall be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device or other similar protective device to prevent unauthorized access to the telecommunications facility.
4.
Lighting: No illumination is permitted on telecommunications facilities unless required by the FCC, FAA or other state or federal agency of competent jurisdiction or unless necessary for air traffic safety. If lighting is required or necessary, the director may review the available lighting alternatives and approve the design that would cause the least disturbance to the surrounding uses and views.
5.
Advertising: No advertising is permitted on telecommunication facilities. However, a whip antenna may be allowed on any legally permitted permanent billboard or outdoor advertising sign as long as the other requirements of this ordinance are met.
6.
Visual impact
a.
Telecommunications facilities shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA or other applicable federal or state agency, be painted a neutral color or painted and /or textured to match the existing structure so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
b.
If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and associated electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as visually unobtrusive as possible. Roof-mounted antennas shall be made visually unobtrusive by screening to match existing air conditioning units, stairs, elevator towers or other background.
c.
Where feasible, telecommunications facilities should be placed directly above, below or incorporated with vertical design elements of a building to help in camouflaging.
d.
Telecommunications facilities shall not be placed in a direct line of sight with historic or scenic view corridors as designated by the governing body or by any state or federal law or agency.
e.
Any equipment shelter or cabinet that supports telecommunications facilities must be concealed from public view or made compatible with the architecture of the surrounding structures or placed underground. Equipment shelters or cabinets shall be screened from public view by using landscaping or materials and colors consistent with the surrounding backdrop. The shelter or cabinet must be regularly maintained.
7.
Landscaping
a.
Landscaping shall be used to effectively screen the view of the telecommunications facility from adjacent public ways, public property and residential property.
b.
Native vegetation on the site shall be preserved to the greatest practical extent. The applicant shall provide a site plan showing existing significant vegetation to be removed, and vegetation to be replanted to replace that lost.
c.
The board of appeals may waive or modify the landscaping requirement where lesser requirements are desirable for adequate visibility for security purposes, for continued operation of existing bona fide agricultural or forest uses such as farms, nurseries and tree farms or where an antenna is placed on an existing structure. In certain locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, such as remote agricultural or rural locations or developed heavy industrial areas, the (landscaping requirement may be modified or waived by the board of appeals.
8.
Maintenance impacts. Equipment at a transmission facility shall be automated to the greatest extent possible to reduce traffic and congestion. Where the site abuts or has access to a collector or local street, access for maintenance vehicles shall be exclusively by means of the collector or local street.
9.
Principal, accessory and joint uses
a.
Accessory structures used in direct support of a telecommunications facility shall be allowed but not be used for offices, vehicles storage or other outdoor storage. Mobile or immobile equipment not used in direct support of a telecommunications facility shall not be stored or parked on the site of the telecommunications facility.
10.
Lot size and setbacks
a.
The following setback requirements shall apply to all telecommunications facilities, provided however, that the board of appeals may reduce the standard setback requirements of this section if the goals of this ordinance would be better served thereby.
i.
Telecommunications towers must be set back a distance equal to the height of the tower from any off-site residential structure.
ii.
Towers, guy wires and accessory facilities must satisfy the minimum zoning district setback requirements.
iii.
Telecommunications facilities must be setback from any property line a sufficient distance to protect adjoining property from the potential impact of telecommunications facility failure by being large enough to accommodate such failure on the site, based on the engineer's analysis required in section 15-5.
b.
For antennas attached to the roof or a supporting structure on a rooftop, a 1:1 setback ratio (example: ten foot (10') high antenna and supporting structure requires ten foot (10') setback from edge of roof) shall be maintained unless an alternative placement is shown to reduce visual impact.
B.
Additional requirements for towers:
1.
Site location and development shall preserve the preexisting character of the surrounding buildings and land uses and the zone district as much as possible. Personal wireless telecommunication towers shall be integrated through location and design to blend in with existing characteristics of the site to the extent practical.
2.
Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved or improved, and disturbance of the existing topography shall be minimized, unless such disturbance would result in less visual impact of the site to the surrounding area.
3.
At a tower site the design of the building and related structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend the tower and related facilities to the natural setting and built environment.
4.
Towers shall not be located any closer than 1500 feet from an existing tower unless technologically required or visually preferable.
5.
When a tower is adjacent to a residential use, it must be set back from the nearest lot line a distance at least equal to its total height.
6.
In no case shall a tower be located in the required front yard, back yard or side yard in a residential district.
7.
Towers shall not be sited where they will negatively affect historic or scenic view corridors as designated by the governing body or any state or federal law or agency or where they will create visual clutter.
8.
Towers shall be enclosed by decay-resistant security fencing not less than six (6) feet in height and shall be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device or other similar protective device designated to prevent tower access.
9.
Placement of more than one tower on a lot shall be permitted, provided all setback, design and landscape requirements are met as to each tower. Structures may be located as close to each other as technically feasible, provided tower failure characteristics of towers on the site will not lead to multiple failures in the event that one fails.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § IV)
§ 15.5. - Application procedures.
A.
General application requirements for all building and conditional use permits. In addition to all other requirements of this section, the following information shall be submitted when applying for any building permit, conditional use permit or other permit or variance included in this ordinance and must be submitted for an application to be considered complete.
1.
Basic information
a.
Site plan or plans to scale specifying the location of telecommunications facilities, transmission building and/or other accessory uses, access, parking, fences, landscaped areas, and adjacent land uses.
b.
Landscape plan to scale indicating size, spacing and type of plantings required in section 15-4(A)(7).
c.
A full description of the environment surrounding the proposed telecommunications facility, including any adjacent residential structures and districts, structures and sites of historic significance, streetscapes or scenic view corridors.
d.
A description of anticipated maintenance needs for the telecommunications facility, including frequency of service, personal needs, equipment needs, and traffic, noise or safety impacts of such maintenance.
e.
Report from a qualified, independent engineer licensed in the State of Georgia, documenting the following:
i.
Telecommunications facility height and design including technical engineering, economic and other pertinent factors governing selection of the proposed design;
ii.
Total anticipated capacity of the telecommunications facility, including number and types of antennae, which can be accommodated;
iii.
Structural failure characteristics of the telecommunications facility and demonstration that site and setback are of adequate size to contain debris.
f.
A definition of the area of service to be served by the antenna or tower and whether such antenna or tower is needed for coverage or capacity.
g.
Information showing the proposed facility would provide the needed coverage or capacity.
h.
The identity of a community liaison officer appointed by the applicant to resolve issues of concern to neighbors and residents relating to the construction and operation of the facility. Include name, address, telephone number, facsimile number and electronic mail address, if applicable.
i.
Identification of the geographic service area for the subject installation, including a map showing the site and the nearest or associated telecommunications facility sites within the network. Describe the distance between the telecommunications facility sites. Describe how this service area fits into and is necessary for the service network.
j.
Statement of the unavailability of existing towers or existing alternative tower structures as provided in section 15-3, above.
2.
Five year plan and site inventory. Each application shall include a five-year facilities plan and site inventory including the following:
a.
A list of all existing, existing to be upgraded or replaced, and proposed telecommunications facility sites within the city limits and within one mile of the city limits and a map showing these sites. The list must include the following information for each site;
i.
Street address;
ii.
Assessor's block and lot or other applicable ad valorem tax identification number;
iii.
Zoning district;
iv.
Type of building (commercial, residential, mixed use) and number of stories;
v.
The number of antennas and base transceiver stations per site and the location and type of antenna installation (stand-alone rooftop, building facade, etc.) and location of the base transceiver station installation(s);
vi.
The height from grade to the top of the antenna installation; and
vii.
The radio frequency range in megahertz, the wattage output of the equipment and effective radiated power.
b.
If the applicant does not know specific future tower and antenna site locations but does know of areas where telecommunications facilities will be needed within the next five years to provide service, the applicant shall list the assessor's blocks contained within the anticipated geographic service area and identify each geographic service area within a number that will correspond to the future telecommunication facility site.
3.
Additional information requirements for towers:
a.
Applicants must identify all existing towers for which there are applicants currently on file with the board of appeals. Applicants must provide evidence of the lack of space on all suitable existing towers to locate proposed antenna and of the lack of space on existing tower sites to construct a tower for the proposed antenna. If co-location on any such towers would result in less visual impact than the visual impact of the proposed tower, applicants must justify why such collocation is not being proposed. If co-location on any such tower would increase negative visual impact, then the applicant must so state and demonstrate. The board of appeals will review with special care justifications that appeal only to undue expense and/or to undue difficulties in entering into a lease agreement. The board of appeals shall carefully weigh such claims, and the evidence presented in favor of them, against a project's negative impacts at the proposed site.
b.
In all zones, applicants must demonstrate that they cannot provide personal wireless communication service without the use of a telecommunications tower.
c.
The applicant shall quantify the additional tower capacity anticipated, including the approximate number and types of antennae. The applicant shall provide a drawing for each tower showing existing and proposed antennae locations. The applicant shall also describe any limitations on the ability of the tower to accommodate other uses, e.g., radio frequency interference, mass height, frequency or other characteristics. The applicant shall describe the technical options available to overcome those limitations and reasons why the technical options considered were not chose to be incorporated. The board of appeals may approve those limitations if they cannot be overcome by reasonable technical means.
c.
The applicant must provide a utilities inventory showing the locations of all water, sewerage, drainage and power lines impacting the proposed tower site.
4.
The applicant must provide any other information, which may be requested by the planning commission or the board of appeals to fully evaluate and review the application and the potential impact a proposed telecommunications facility.
B.
Conditional use permits. In granting a conditional use permit, the board of appeals may impose additional zoning conditions to the extent determined necessary to buffer or otherwise minimize adverse effects of the proposed tower or antenna on surrounding properties.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § V)
§ 15.6. - Future co-location.
Applicant and owner shall allow other future personal wireless service companies, including public and quasi-public agencies, using functionally equivalent personal wireless technology to co-locate antennae, equipment and facilities on a telecommunications facility unless specific technical constraints prohibit said co-location. Applicant and other personal wireless carriers shall provide a mechanism for the construction and maintenance of shared facilities and infrastructure and shall provide for equitable sharing costing accordance with industry standards.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § VI)
§ 15.7. - Nuisances.
Telecommunications facilities, including, without limitation, power source, ventilation and cooling, shall be operated at all times within the limits of the City of Trenton Noises Ordinance, shall not be operated so as to cause the generation of heat that adversely affects a building occupant and shall not be maintained or operated in such a manner as to be nuisance.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § VII)
§ 15.8. - Removal of antennae and towers.
All telecommunications facilities shall be maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable building and technical codes so as to ensure the structural integrity of such facilities. If upon inspection by the director any such telecommunications facility is determined not to comply with the code standards or to constitute a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to the owner of the facility and the owner of the property if such owner is different, such owners shall have thirty (30) days to bring such facility into compliance. In the event such telecommunications facility is not brought into compliance within (30) days the city may provide notice to the owners requiring the telecommunications facility to be removed. In the event such telecommunications facility is not removed within (30) days of receipt of such notice, the city may remove such facility and place a lien upon the property for the costs of removal. Delay by the city in taking action shall not in any way waive the city's right to take action. The city may pursue all legal remedies available to it to insure that telecommunications facilities not in compliance with the code standard or which constitute a danger to persons or property are brought into compliance or removed. The city may seek to have the telecommunications facility removed regardless of the owner's or operator's intent to operate the tower or antenna and regardless of any permits, federal, state or otherwise, which may have been granted.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § VIII)
§ 15.9. - Abandoned towers.
A.
Any telecommunications facility that is not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned, whether or not the owner or operator intends to make use of it or any part of it. The owner of a telecommunications facility and the owner of the property where the facility is located shall be under a duty to remove the abandoned telecommunications facility. If such antenna and/or tower are not removed within sixty (60) days of receipt of notice from the city notifying the owner(s) of such abandonment, the city may remove such tower and/or antennae and place a lien upon the property for the costs of removal. The city may pursue all legal remedies available to it to insure that abandoned telecommunications facilities are removed. Delay by the city in taking action shall not in any way waive the city's right to take action. The city may pursue all legal remedies available to it to insure that telecommunications facilities not in compliance with the code standards or which constitute a danger to persons or property are brought into compliance or removed. The city may seek to have the telecommunications facility removed regardless of the owner's operator's intent to operate the tower or antenna and regardless of any permits, federal, state or otherwise, which may have been granted.
B.
If the owner of an abandoned tower or antenna wishes to use such abandoned tower or antenna, the owner first must apply for and receive all applicable permits and meet all of the conditions of this ordinance as if such tower or antenna were a new tower or antenna.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § IX)
§ 15.10. - Pre-existing towers/non-conforming uses.
A.
All telecommunications facilities operative on January 3, 2000, shall be allowed to continue their present usage as a non-conforming use and shall be treated as a non-conforming use in accordance with section 18-20.1 of the Municipal Code. Routine maintenance, including replacement with a new tower or antenna of like construction and height, shall be permitted on such existing telecommunications facilities. New construction other than routine maintenance shall comply with requirements of this ordinance.
B.
A telecommunications facility that has received city approval as of January 3, 2000, in form of either a building permit or conditional use exception, but has not yet been constructed or placed in operation shall be considered an existing telecommunications facility so long as such approval is current and not expired.
C.
Placement of an antenna on a non-conforming structure shall not be considered an expansion of the non-conforming structure.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § X)
§ 15.11. - Penalty for violation of ordinance.
A.
Any person who attempts to erect a telecommunications facility covered by this ordinance without having first obtained the necessary building permit, conditional use permit or variance in the manner provided in this ordinance shall be guilty of violating a duly adopted ordinance of the city and shall be punished either by a fine not to exceed $500.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days or both. The court shall have the power and authority to place any person guilty of violation of this ordinance on probation and to suspend or modify any fine or sentence. As a condition of such suspension, the court may required payment of restitution or imposes other punishment allowed by law.
B.
If any structure is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained in violation of this ordinance or without obtaining that required permits, or if any building, structure or land is used in violation of this article, the city, in addition to any other remedies, may institute proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use or to correct or abate such violations. Each and every day unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use continues may be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § XI)
§ 15.12. - Miscellaneous provisions.
A.
Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof.
B.
Repeal of laws in conflict. This ordinance supersedes all ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
(Ord. of 1-3-2000, § XII)
