ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Governing authority means the legally designated council, board, commission, or other governmental unit or its authorized representative of the city.
Mobile home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight-body feet or more in width or 40-body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein and manufactured prior to June 15, 1976.
Mobile home lot means a parcel of land for the placement of a single mobile home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
Mobile home park means a parcel of land or any portion thereof under single ownership that has been designed, planned or improved for the placement of two or more mobile homes for residential use, including land, buildings and facilities used by the occupants of mobile homes on such property.
Mobile home stand means that part of an individual lot that has been reserved for the placement of the mobile home, appurtenant structures or additions.
Permit means a written permit issued by the city council permitting the construction, alteration and extension of a mobile home park under the provisions and regulations of this chapter.
Service building means a structure housing toilet, lavatory and such other facilities as may be required by this chapter.
Sewer connection means the connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and appurtenances from the drain outlet of the mobile home to the inlet of the corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sanitary sewer system serving the mobile home park.
Sewer riser pipe means that portion of the sewer lateral that extends vertically to the ground elevation and terminates on each mobile home lot.
Water connection means the connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the distribution system within the mobile home.
Water riser pipe means that portion of the water supply system serving the mobile home park that extends vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at a designated point at each mobile home lot.
(Comp. 1976, § 21-105; Code 1989, § 9-1; Ord. of 8-24-1973(1), § 1)
Sec. 22-2. - Penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00, within the maximum provided in general penalty section 1-9, and otherwise punished as provided in section 1-9, and each day's failure of compliance with any such provision shall constitute a separate violation.
(Comp. 1976, § 21-105; Code 1989, § 9-6; Ord. of 8-24-1973(1), § 17)
Sec. 22-3. - Conflicts.
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any other provision of this Code or other ordinance, including the technical codes adopted by the city, or any applicable state or federal regulation, the provision that, in the city council's judgment, establishes the higher standard or provide the most stringent regulation for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail.
(Comp. 1976, § 21-105; Code 1989, § 9-2; Ord. of 8-24-1973(1), § 18.1)
Sec. 22-4. - Compliance with chapter required.
No person shall maintain within the geographical city limits any mobile home, or other similar structure used for human habitation, except as provided in this chapter.
Sec. 22-5. - Storage.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the storage of a mobile home or other similar structure for any reasonable length of time when the structure is not used for living or sleeping purposes and does not otherwise constitute an unsightly condition and does not prejudice the health and safety of other buildings located in the vicinity or persons residing in the vicinity.
Sec. 22-6. - Immobilizing.
(a)
Permit required. Removal of the wheels or other transporting device from any mobile home or other structure, so as to affix the structure permanently to the ground in any location is prohibited, unless a permit for such location is obtained from the city on the same basis as a permit required for the construction of a new building.
(b)
Compliance with building and zoning regulations required. Any alteration, moving, relocation or conversion shall be construed as converting the mobile home or other structure into a building in such manner as to be subject to the building codes of the city and to the requirements of its zoning and building ordinances. Occupancy for sleeping or other residential purposes of any mobile home or similar structure which has been rendered immobile by the removal of wheels or the placing of the structure on a foundation or on the ground, is prohibited unless such mobile home or other structure, and the location upon which it is situated, complies with the ordinances relating to the construction, wiring, plumbing, sewerage facilities and other regulations applicable to single-family dwellings.
Sec. 22-7. - Sale or rental.
(a)
License required. No person shall display for sale, rental or other disposition any mobile home or other similar structure without first obtaining from the city an appropriate license to engage in such business.
(b)
Standards for issuance of license. No business license for operation of such business shall be granted by the city until the applicant shall have identified the proposed location of such business, and unless such location is demonstrated to have sufficient space for the orderly display of such structures and conduct of such business. Maintenance of junk, debris or structures failing to meet the city's minimum housing standards will not be allowed.
Secs. 22-8—22-32. - Reserved.
