ARTICLE XVII. - PUD—PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

Sec. 42-472. - Purpose; intent
The PUD—Planned Unit Development District is intended to:
(1)
Provide flexibility in the application, height, bulk, placement and other zoning controls;
(2)
Provide for mixing a wide variety of residential housing types and arrangements;
(3)
Provide for the mixing of compatible residential, office and commercial land uses;
(4)
Encourage imaginative and innovative design for the unified development of tracts of land;
(5)
Provide an alternative for more efficient use of land, resulting in smaller networks of utilities and streets, thereby resulting in lower construction and maintenance costs to the public;
(6)
Reserve the natural amenities of the land by encouraging scenic and functional open areas within the development; and
(7)
Promote land development in proper relation to the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. No. 2006-04, § P-1, 7-6-2006)
Sec. 42-473. - Permitted uses.
Any land uses and combinations thereof, including signs and accessory buildings and uses, which have been specifically proposed by the applicant and approved by the city as a part of a planned unit development site plan, report or other supporting information are permitted in a PUD district.
(Ord. No. 2006-04, § P-2, 7-6-2006)
Sec. 42-474. - Summary report required.
Applications for rezoning of, or development within, a PUD—Planned Unit Development District shall require a written report that explains the type, nature, size, intent and characteristics of the proposed development.
(Ord. No. 2006-04, § P-3, 7-6-2006)
Sec. 42-475. - Site plan approval required.
(a)
Applications for rezoning of, or development within, a PUD—Planned Unit Development District shall require a site plan, including, as a minimum, those items enumerated in these regulations. The city manager or his designee, planning commission, or city council may require, in addition, such other information, studies, plats, plans or architectural elevations deemed necessary to perform an adequate review of the proposed application.
(b)
A licensed professional engineer, licensed architect, licensed land planner or licensed landscape architect shall prepare the site plans, and his seal of registration or professional initials shall be indicated on such plans.
(Ord. No. 2006-04, § P-4, 7-6-2006)
Sec. 42-476. - Filing.
Any person desiring to subdivide land or develop a planned unit development shall file with the planning commission (through the zoning administrator's office) five copies of the preliminary plat accompanied by a letter of application. The letter of application shall contain the name and address of the developer and his agent, the zoning of the property to be subdivided, whether or not the subdivision or planned unit development will be developed in phases, any plans for potential annexation of adjoining property and plans for serving the proposed subdivision with city gas, sewer and water facilities. The plat shall be prepared in accordance with these regulations and with applicable city specifications:
(1)
Title block and north arrow. The plat will show the name of the proposed subdivision or planned unit development, its location by county and city, the name, address and registration number of the surveyor preparing the plat and the date of the plat. A north arrow shall be included with a notation referencing the bearings to magnetic north.
(2)
General layout. The plat shall show information as to the proposed street layout and widths, layout of lots with a notation as to the minimum size and width of lots and any proposed open space. Any lands to be dedicated will be identified. Plat scale, total acreage of the site and total number of lots created shall also be indicated.
(3)
Topography. The plat shall show existing contour lines dashed and any proposed contour lines solid, both sets of lines to be at two-foot intervals, mean sea level (MSL). Prominent drainage features such as lakes, depressions, streams, etc., which could affect the design of the subdivision shall be shown. Engineering data showing the high-water elevation and how it was established shall be submitted.
(4)
Existing features. The plat shall show the locations and names of existing and platted property lines, streets (and their rights-of-way), railroads (and their rights-of-way), public and private rights-of-way, sanitary sewer (and size), easements, storm drainage (and size), parks and other public open spaces, land lot and land district lines, city limits lines and names of adjoining property owners or subdivisions.
(5)
Location map. The plat shall include a small-scale map of sufficient clarity so that the location of the proposed subdivision can be readily determined.
(6)
Water, gas and sewer. A statement from the subdivider or developer shall be submitted with the preliminary plat, which will describe the method by which sanitary sewer, gas and water facilities will be provided. As a minimum, the report shall include the following:
a.
A complete listing of every land use proposed within the development, including total acreage and the amount of acreage devoted to each use. All uses not specifically included in the report or site plan and approved by the city are prohibited unless subsequently the application is amended in accordance with applicable procedures.
b.
Proposed development standards including minimum lot sizes, minimum lot widths, minimum lot frontages, minimum floor areas or residential dwelling unit sizes, maximum number of dwelling units, maximum square footage figures for nonresidential developments, minimum yards/building setbacks, landscape strips and buffers, height limitations, restrictive covenants, and any other such applicable standard or requirement. The report should also indicate any proposed exceptions or variations from the size, setback, frontage, density or other standards that are required in other conventional zoning districts, along with justification for such proposed exceptions or variations.
c.
Timeframe of development and provisions for ownership and management of the development.
d.
Intended plans for the provision of utilities, including water, gas, sewer and drainage facilities.
e.
All streets shall be built to state DOT and the city standards and dedicated to the city upon completion and approval. All streets shall be named by developer and approved by the city.
(7)
Future tract plan. In cases where a subdivision or planned unit development is to be developed in stages, with additional plats being filed with the planning commission at a later date, the filing of the initial plat will be accompanied by a future tract plan, a reasonably accurate plat in sketch form of the entire tract, which will show the future street system and topography for the entire tract. Once the required tract plan has been reviewed by appropriate city staff and given approval by the planning commission, seven copies of the approved future tract plan must be provided for distribution to the mayor and city council for their review and approval.
(8)
Completeness. If any of the facts enumerated in subsections (1) through (7) of this section are omitted or misrepresented on the plat, the chairperson of the planning and zoning commission or the zoning administrator may refuse to review the plat and shall return the plat to the subdivider or developer to be completed or revised.
(9)
City, county and state requirements. The plat shall comply with all city, county and state requirements for filing in the deed records.
(Ord. No. 2006-04, § P-5, 7-6-2006)
Sec. 42-477. - Report and site plan to establish minimum requirements.
The approved development summary report, site plan and all other information, studies, plats, plans or architectural elevations submitted in the application, or required to be submitted by the city, shall establish the standards and minimum requirements for the subject property and shall become the zoning regulations that apply to the subject property, regardless of changes in property ownership.
(Ord. No. 2006-04, § P-6, 7-6-2006)
Sec. 42-478. - Revisions to approved application.
Any additions in the types of land uses, increases in square footage or density, decreases in lot sizes, changes in the location or dimensions of streets, decreases in dwelling unit floor areas, major alterations in the land use patterns, or other substantial changes which, in the opinion of the city manager or his designee, result in a development of such intent and character which has not been conceptually approved by the city, shall require additional approval. Otherwise, minor changes may be approved by the city manager prior to issuance of building permits.
(Ord. No. 2006-04, § P-7, 7-6-2006)
Sec. 42-479. - Minimum site area and frontage required.
The minimum site area for a PUD—Planned Unit Development District shall be subject to approval by the planning commission and city council according to preliminary plat. The planned unit development shall have a minimum of 100 feet of frontage on a public street, which shall provide access to such public street. Lots within the planned unit development should be consistent with current zoning requirements for like type housing or be approved as a variation in the planned unit development.
(Ord. No. 2006-04, § P-8, 7-6-2006)
Sec. 42-480. - Site planning guidelines.
The following specifications are guidelines to be utilized in preparing of site plans for planned unit developments:
(1)
Land uses that have traditionally been viewed as incompatible (e.g., single-family subdivision and a manufacturing plant) shall not be proposed in the same planned unit development.
(2)
Office and commercial uses shall be located adjacent to major thoroughfares or in other areas with suitable access that will not result in traffic through residential areas.
(3)
Lot sizes, lot widths, unit sizes and other characteristics of residential development within the planned unit development should be similar to those characteristics of adjacent or nearby residential subdivision, or provide a suitable transition from such adjacent uses.
(4)
Location of land uses should conform substantially with land use plan goals, policies and suggested types of uses.
(5)
Street lengths, alignments, patterns and other characteristics should conform to city subdivision regulations or standard planning principles.
(6)
Proposed developments should make maximum use of natural features of the land.
(7)
For developments that are predominantly residential, only limited commercial uses for up to ten percent of the total development site area can be of a retail nature.
(8)
The commercial and retail portion of predominantly residential developments shall be limited to those that do not affect the traffic volume or the character and nature of traffic (i.e., no trucks or vehicles with more than two axles). Commercial uses within these predominately residential areas shall be limited to those uses that do not produce waste that cannot be handled by a standard solid waste handler; those uses that produce waste that must be disposed of in a hazard waste facility shall be prohibited.
(Ord. No. 2006-04, § P-9, 7-6-2006)
Secs. 42-481—42-498. - Reserved.
_____
