ARTICLE VI. - EXCAVATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 36-612. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approximate location of underground utilities means a strip of land at least three feet wide along a designated or marked centerline.
Damage includes:
(1)
The substantial weakening of structural or lateral support of an underground utility;
(2)
The penetration or destruction of any protective coating, housing or other protective device of an underground utility; and
(3)
The partial or complete severance of an underground utility.
Demolish or demolition means any operation by which a structure or mass of material is wrecked, razed, rendered, moved or removed by means of any tools, equipment or discharge of explosives.
Excavate or excavation means an operation for the purpose of the movement or removal of earth, rock or other materials in or on the ground by use of mechanized equipment or by discharge of explosives, including auguring, backfilling, digging, ditching, drilling, grading, plowing-in, pulling-in, ripping, scraping, trenching and tunneling, but not including the tilling of soil for agricultural purposes.
Imminent danger to life, health or property means a substantial likelihood that loss of life, health or property will result before the requirements of this article can be fully complied with.
Interruptible customer means any industrial customer utilizing more than 5,000 Mcf per billing period and having an alternate energy source.
Mechanical equipment means equipment operated by means of mechanical power, including trenchers, bulldozers, power shovels, augers, backhoes, scrapers, drills, cable and pipe plows and other equipment used for plowing-in or pulling-in cable or pipe.
Operator means any person who owns or operates a utility.
Utility means any line, system or facility used for producing, storing, conveying, transmitting or distributing natural gas.
(Ord. No. 98-001, § 3, 4-6-1998)
Sec. 36-613. - Restrictions.
Except as provided in this Code, no person may excavate in a street, highway, public space, private easement of an operator or near the location of a utility installed on the premises of a customer or demolish a building without having first ascertained, in the manner provided in this article, the location of all underground city utilities in the area that would be effected by the proposed excavation or demolition.
(Ord. No. 98-001, § 5, 4-6-1998)
Sec. 36-614. - Emergency work.
Compliance with the notice requirements of division 2 of this article is not required for an emergency excavation or demolition to ameliorate an imminent danger to life, health or property; provided, however, that the persons responsible must give, as soon as practicable, oral notice of the emergency excavation or demolition to the city public works department where the excavation or demolition is to be performed and request emergency assistance from the city gas department in locating and providing immediate protection to its underground utilities.
(Ord. No. 98-001, § 8, 4-6-1998)
Sec. 36-615. - Duty of person excavating or demolishing to protect utilities.
In addition to the notification requirements of division 2 of this article, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in this Code shall:
(1)
Plan the excavation or demolition to avoid damage to or minimize interference with underground utilities in and near the construction area;
(2)
Maintain a clearance between an underground utility and the cutting edge or point of any mechanized equipment, taking into account the known limit of control of the cutting edge or point, as may be reasonably necessary to avoid damage to the utilities; and
(3)
Provide the support for underground utilities in and near the construction area, including during backfill operations, as may be reasonably necessary for the protection of the utilities.
(Ord. No. 98-001, § 9, 4-6-1998)
Sec. 36-616. - Immediate notice required upon damage to utility.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in this Code that results in any damage to an underground utility shall, immediately upon discovery of the damage, notify the city's director of public works or his designee of the location and nature of the damage and shall allow the operator reasonable time to accomplish necessary repairs before completing the excavation or demolition in the immediate area of the utility.
(b)
Each person responsible for any excavation or demolition operation designated in this Code that results in damage to an underground utility permitting the escape of any flammable, toxic or corrosive gas or liquid shall, immediately upon discovery of the damage, notify the operator, police and fire departments and take any other action as may be reasonably necessary to protect persons and property and to minimize the hazards until arrival of the operator's personnel or police and fire departments.
(Ord. No. 98-001, § 10, 4-6-1998)
Secs. 36-617—36-635. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - NOTICE

Sec. 36-636. - Intent to excavate or demolish.
(a)
Required. Except as otherwise provided in this article, before commencing any excavation or demolition operation, the person responsible for the excavation or demolition shall serve written or telephone notice of the intent to excavate or demolish at least three but not more than ten full working days to the city's director of public works or his designee.
(b)
Contents. The written or telephone notice must contain:
(1)
The name, address and telephone number of the person filing the notice of intent, and if different, the person responsible for the excavation or demolition;
(2)
The starting date, anticipated duration and type of excavation or demolition operation to be conducted;
(3)
The location of the proposed excavation or demolition; and
(4)
Whether explosives are to be used.
(c)
Record of telephone notice required. If the notification required by this section is made by telephone, an adequate record of the notification shall be maintained by the city public works department to document compliance with the requirements of this division.
(Ord. No. 98-001, § 6, 4-6-1998)
Sec. 36-637. - Information provided by city.
The city public works department shall within two working days after receipt of the notice of intent, unless a shorter period is provided by agreement between the person responsible for the excavation or demolition and the operator or the city's representative, supply by appropriate means the following information to the person responsible for the excavation or demolition:
(1)
The approximate location and description of all of its underground utilities that may be damaged as a result of the excavation or demolition;
(2)
The location and description of all temporary utility markers indicating the approximate location of the underground utilities in the area of excavation or demolition activity before, as far as practical, the activity begins; and
(3)
Any other information that would assist that person in locating and thereby avoiding damage to the underground utilities.
(Ord. No. 98-001, § 7, 4-6-1998)
