ARTICLE VII. - PURCHASING[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Charter reference— Authority to contract, § 1.03(b)(6).

Sec. 2-333. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Any terms not defined by this article shall have the meaning ascribed to them elsewhere in this Code.
City finance director means the city accountant, his agent, or the chair of the city finance department, if such a department is created or is in existence.
City manager means the top executive/administrative position appointed by the city council and has the authority to execute and approve contracts, purchase orders, and change orders within his delegated authority.
Construction means the process of building, altering, improving, or demolishing any public structure or building, or other public improvements of any kind to any public real property. The term "construction" does not include the routine operation, repair and/or maintenance of existing structures, buildings, or real property.
Contract means any city agreement, regardless of form or title, for the procurement or disposition of goods, commodities, and services.
Employee means an individual drawing a salary or wage from the city, whether on a full-time or part-time basis. The term shall encompass all members of the city council without regard to whether or not such individual is compensated.
Gifts or favors means any thing or any service of value.
Goods or commodities means supplies, apparatus, materials, equipment, and other forms of tangible personal property.
Payment terms means two percent net 20.
Purchase order means the document used by the city to obtain supplies, goods, commodities, and services from vendors.
Purchasing agent means the principal purchasing official of the city pursuant to section 2-334.
Vendor means one who sells goods or services; a supplier.
(Ord. No. 2006-12-94, § 1(ch. 2, art. 7, § 1), 12-19-2006)
Sec. 2-334. - Purchasing agent.
The purchasing agent shall have the following duties and powers:
(1)
Arrange and negotiate the purchase or contract for all equipment, supplies, and contractual services for the city or any using agency; arrange and negotiate for the sale or otherwise dispose of all surplus equipment and supplies or real estate of the city or any using agency;
(2)
Maintain a perpetual or periodic inventory record of all materials, supplies, or equipment stored in city storerooms, warehouses, and elsewhere, including monthly reports that provide:
a.
The titles of all requests for proposals and the method of source selections to be used;
b.
All contracts authorized by the council, the method of source selection used, and the total dollar amount;
c.
All emergency contracts awarded pursuant to this article;
d.
All change orders or contract modifications authorized by the council, the dollar amount, and the reason;
e.
All change orders or contract modifications authorized by the purchasing agent, the dollar amount, and the reason; and
f.
An explanation of any changes, and the costs involved, in the scope of services made between the time a contract is awarded and the time that a resolution authorizing the contract is sent to the council for adoption;
(3)
Control and supervise all city storerooms and warehouses, unless otherwise provided in this Code;
(4)
Develop and maintain a purchasing policy and procedure manual which will be updated by the purchasing agent periodically;
(5)
Direct efforts to procure services through advertisements of bids as required by this article and by state law;
(6)
Require bonds, insurance, and other forms of protection for the city on the process of procuring goods and services for the city;
(7)
Terminate solicitations for bids for any goods or services when, in the opinion of the purchasing agent, it is in the city's best interest to do so, including termination for breach of contract or anticipated breach of contract;
(8)
Reject any and all bids when, in the opinion of the purchasing agent, it is in the city's best interest;
(9)
Consult with the city attorney if a contracting party breaches or is reasonably anticipated to breach its contract with the city.
(Ord. No. 2006-12-94, § 1(ch. 2, art. 7, § 2), 12-19-2006)
Sec. 2-335. - Legal representation.
The city attorney represents the city in all legal matters and has the authority to provide standard terms and conditions of contracts and purchase orders and approves various negotiated terms and conditions as determined by the purchasing agent.
(Ord. No. 2006-12-94, § 1(ch. 2, art. 7, § 1), 12-19-2006)
Sec. 2-336. - Purchasing policy.
The purchasing policy, as amended from time to time and approved by the city council, is adopted by reference as if set out at length in this Code.
