ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
(a)
Unless a contrary intention is clearly apparent from the context, any term used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as when used in a comparable provision of the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code (O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.).
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverage caterer means any retail dealer licensed pursuant to this chapter who provides alcohol at authorized events or functions, special events, or special events facilities.
Brewpub means any eating establishment in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36. In calculating the total annual gross food and beverage sales for any such establishment for the purpose of determining whether the establishment constitutes an 'eating establishment' as defined herein, barrels of malt beverages sold to licensed wholesale dealers, as authorized pursuant to subparagraph (D) of paragraph (2) of O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36, or to the public for consumption off the premises in accordance with subparagraphs (A) and (D) of paragraph (2), paragraph (3) and paragraph (4) of O.C.G.A. § 3-5-36, shall not be used.
Church means any permanent place of public religious worship.
Eating establishment means an establishment which is licensed to sell or otherwise dispense distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food.
Farm winery means a domestic winery that is licensed as a farm winery by the state.
Food caterer means any person who prepares food for consumption off the premises.
Growler means a bottle capable of being sealed with a tamper-proof cap, top or other seal for the purpose of complying with open container laws, and further provided that the container may hold not less than 12 ounces, but not to exceed 68 ounces, and is filled with malt beverage drawn from a barrel, cask, tank, or keg by a licensee, or an employee of a licensee, holding a package malt beverage license issued by the city.
Immediate family of a person means all persons related to such person by consanguinity or affinity within the first degree, as computed according to the law of the state.
Interest includes any pecuniary interest and any ownership interest, whether present or future, whole or partial, legal or beneficial, contingent or vested, direct or indirect, and any right, power, or authority of control.
Registered agent means that individual, who is a resident of the county and at least 21 years of age, required to be designated by a licensee to receive any process, notice, or demand required or permitted by law or under this chapter to be served upon a licensee or owner.
(Ord. No. 2007-09-54, § 3(7.1.2), 9-18-2007; Ord. No. 2012-06-14, 6-5-2012; Ord. No. 2012-07-27, 7-17-2012; Ord. No. 2016-04-07 , § I, 4-5-2016)
State Law reference— Definitions generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1.
Sec. 6-2. - Penalties for violation.
Except as may otherwise be provided in this chapter, any person who violates this chapter may, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $500.00 for each offense and/or up to six months incarceration. Should the violation and conviction be of a state law, the punishment shall be by a fine of not less than $1,000.00 and/or up to 12 months incarceration.
(Ord. No. 2007-09-54, § 3(7.9.1), 9-18-2007)
Sec. 6-3. - Purposes of chapter.
(a)
The purposes of this chapter shall include, without necessarily being limited to, the following:
(1)
Compliance with and effectuation of the general state law;
(2)
Prevention and control of the sale of alcoholic beverages by unfit persons;
(3)
The protection of schools, homes, churches, parks, and other institutions;
(4)
Promotion of appropriate land use and zoning and the effectuation of the city's land use and zoning policies;
(5)
Protection of the public health, safety, and welfare.
(b)
To the maximum extent possible under state and federal law, the business of selling alcoholic beverages shall under this chapter be considered to be a privilege to be accorded in conformity with the foregoing and other public policies of the city, rather than a right.
(Ord. No. 2007-09-54, § 3(7.1.1), 9-18-2007)
Sec. 6-4. - Notice.
Except as may otherwise be specifically provided in this chapter, any required notice may be delivered by hand or posted by certified mail, in which event delivery shall be deemed to take place on the third day following the date of deposit in the United States mail.
(Ord. No. 2007-09-54, § 3(7.2.19), 9-18-2007)
Sec. 6-5. - Collection of sums due.
As to any failure to pay any sum due for fees or taxes under this chapter, the city may issue an execution against the licensee and his property for the amount of the delinquent fee or tax in addition to any other remedies the city may have.
(Ord. No. 2007-09-54, § 3(7.2.20), 9-18-2007)
Sec. 6-6. - Sale to or purchase or possession by underage person.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this section:
(1)
No person, directly or through another person, shall furnish, cause to be furnished, or permit any person in such person's employ to furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person under 21 years of age.
(2)
No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or possess any alcoholic beverage.
(3)
No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent such person's age in any manner whatever for the purpose of obtaining unlawfully any alcoholic beverage.
(4)
No person shall act as an agent to purchase or acquire any alcoholic beverage for or on behalf of a person under 21 years of age.
(5)
No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent his identity or use any false identification for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining any alcoholic beverage.
(b)
The prohibitions contained in subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(4) of this section shall not apply with respect to the sale, purchase, or possession of alcoholic beverages for consumption:
(1)
For medical purposes pursuant to a prescription of a physician duly authorized to practice medicine in the state; or
(2)
At a religious ceremony.
(c)
The prohibitions contained in subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(4) of this section shall not apply when the parent or guardian of the underage person gives the alcoholic beverage to the underage person and when possession is in the home of the parent or guardian and such parent or guardian is present.
(d)
The prohibition contained in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall not be violated when a person has been furnished with proper identification showing that the person to whom the alcoholic beverage is sold is 21 years of age or older. For purposes of this subsection, the term "proper identification" means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person, the person's photograph, and the person's date of birth. Proper identification includes, without being limited to, a passport, military identification, driver's license, or an identification card authorized under O.C.G.A., §§ 40-5-100—40-5-104. "Proper identification" shall not include a birth certificate.
(e)
This section shall not prohibit employment of a person under 21 years of age in a licensed premises if such employment is lawful under section 6-162.
(f)
In any case where a reasonable or prudent person could doubt whether or not the person to whom an alcoholic beverage is to be sold or otherwise furnished is 21 years of age or older, the person selling or otherwise furnishing such alcoholic beverage shall request to see and be furnished with proper identification as provided in subsection (d) of this section. The failure to make such request and verification in any case where the person to whom the alcoholic beverage is sold or otherwise furnished is less than 21 years of age may be considered by the trier of fact in determining whether the person selling or otherwise furnishing such alcoholic beverage did so in violation of subsection (a)(1) of this section.
(g)
In any case where a person selling or otherwise furnishing alcoholic beverages checks for a proper identification, such person shall carefully inspect such identification. If a reasonably prudent person could determine that such identification has been altered and if such person sells or otherwise furnishes alcoholic beverages to the holder of such altered identification, then such may be considered by the trier of fact in determining whether the person selling or otherwise furnishing such alcoholic beverage did so in violation of subsection (a)(1) of this section.
(h)
For purposes of the prohibitions set forth in this section, a plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of bond shall constitute a conviction.
(i)
With reference to the prohibitions set forth in this section, if there is a change in a majority of a licensee's owners, partners, or shareholders, the offenses under the old ownership shall not count against the new owners; provided, however, a different corporation, partnership, or other association shall be charged with the offenses of the predecessor if a majority of the owners, partners, or shareholders are the same.
(Ord. No. 2007-09-54, § 3(7.5.4), 9-18-2007)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
Sec. 6-7. - Carry-out of alcoholic beverage unlawful.
(a)
Except as provided for in division 7 of article II of this chapter, all alcoholic beverages sold or otherwise dispensed for consumption on the licensed premises shall be consumed only on the licensed premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove from the licensed premises any alcoholic beverages sold for consumption on the premises, and it shall be unlawful for the licensee to permit any person to remove from the licensed premises any alcoholic beverages sold for consumption on the premises. The licensee shall be responsible for ensuring that no person so removes any alcoholic beverages from the premises in any type of container.
Notwithstanding the foregoing and as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 3-6-4, any eating establishment in Sandy Springs which is licensed to sell wine for consumption on the premises may permit a patron, who has purchased a meal and consumed a portion of a bottle of wine, to remove one partially consumed bottle of wine off premises, if the bottle of wine has been securely resealed by the licensee, placed in a bag or other container that is secured in such a manner that it is visibly apparent if the container has been subsequently opened or tampered with, and has a dated receipt for the bottle of wine and meal attached by the licensee. If transported in a motor vehicle, the container with the resealed bottle of wine shall be placed in a locked glove compartment, a locked trunk, or the area behind the last upright seat of a motor vehicle that is not equipped with a trunk.
(b)
Except as provided for in division 7 of article II of this chapter, each consumption on the premises licensee shall post in a prominent place at each exit from the licensed premises a sign in substantially the following form:
It is a violation of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Sandy Springs to take any type alcoholic beverage out of this establishment unless specifically permitted by state law and Sandy Springs ordinance. Such sign shall be in uniform letters not less than one inch in height.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person purchasing alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises to leave the premises without paying for such alcoholic beverages.
(d)
Except as provided for in division 7 of article II of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for customers to gather outside the establishment of a consumption on the premises licensee and consume alcoholic beverages.
(e)
Except as provided for in division 7 of article II of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the manager or any employee of a consumption on the premises licensee to allow persons to gather outside the establishment and consume alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 2007-09-54, § 3(7.7.14), 9-18-2007; Ord. No. 2014-12-44 , 12-2-2014; Ord. No. 2018-07-24 , § I, 7-17-2018)
Sec. 6-8. - Brownbagging; when BYOB is allowed.
It is prohibited for any person to bring in his own alcoholic beverage in any business establishment without regard to whether such establishment is licensed to serve alcoholic beverages except for the following specific exceptions:
(1)
This section shall not prohibit any person dining at an eating establishment licensed to sell wine for consumption on the premises from bringing an unopened bottle of wine into said establishment for consumption where such eating establishment has a policy permitting same.
(2)
This section shall not prohibit any person who is a patron of a business establishment which provides as its primary business art instruction, sewing and embroidery instruction, or cooking instruction from bringing one unopened bottle of wine into the establishment where: (a) the owners or their agents have a policy permitting a patron to bring an unopened bottle of wine into the business establishment for consumption on the premises by the patron; and (b) the business establishment is licensed as required hereinafter.
(3)
This section shall not prohibit any person who is a patron of a business establishment which provides as its primary business art instruction, sewing and embroidery instruction, or cooking instruction from bringing no more than two unopened 16-ounce containers of beer, or the equivalent, into the establishment where: (a) the owners or their agents have a policy permitting a patron to bring an unopened bottle of beer as described into the business establishment for consumption on the premises by the patron; and (b) the retail establishment is licensed as required hereinafter.
(4)
Any wine not consumed at a business establishment, as described in subsection (2) of this section, shall be disposed of at the premises and not carried out in an open container, unless the business establishment is able to reseal and repackage the opened bottle of wine as required by O.C.G.A. § 3-6-4.
(5)
Any beer opened and not consumed at a business establishment, as described in subsection (3) of this section, shall be disposed of at the premises and not carried out in an unsealed container.
(6)
A business establishment, as described in subsections (2) and (3) of this section, licensed as required, may have available for its patrons use, either for a fee or not, glasses and openers for the patrons' use.
(7)
A business establishment, as described in subsections (2) and (3) of this section, shall be a licensed business by the city and meet all application requirements for a brown bagging beer and wine license and be governed by the ordinance provisions set forth in division 2 of article II of this chapter except as to the attendant fees. Further, such a business establishment so licensed shall not have any employee under the age of 18 working in the establishment and shall have an established closing time no later than 10:00 p.m. The attendant application fee for a business establishment, as described in subsections (2) and (3) hereinabove shall be in an amount as set by resolution of the city council, which amount shall remain in effect until modified or amended by the city council.
(8)
All applicable state laws and city ordinances which address the use and serving of alcoholic beverages shall apply to this section, unless otherwise specifically provided hereinabove.
(9)
For purposes of this section, the term business establishment shall not include a private hotel room or other similar guest room or a private club.
(Ord. No. 2012-01-01, 1-3-2012; Ord. No. 2017-04-08 , 4-18-2017)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-01-01, adopted Jan. 3, 2012, amended § 6-8 in its entirety to read as set out herein. Former § 6-8 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 2007-09-54, § 3(7.7.15), adopted Sept. 18, 2007; Ord. No. 2010-06-23, adopted June 15, 2010.
Secs. 6-9—6-30. - Reserved.
