ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-19. - Reimbursement and travel.
(a)
Reasonable expenses. The mayor and councilmembers shall be reimbursed for their own reasonable travel expenses incurred in connection with city business related to travel outside the city and those cities that share borders with the city.
(b)
Overnight travel. The city shall reimburse the mayor or councilmembers for actual expenses of meals incurred in connection with overnight travel, lodging, ground transportation, and incidental expenses incurred in connection with city business.
(c)
Expense reports. Within 60 days after incurring the aforementioned expenditures, the mayor or councilmembers shall file with the city manager a signed travel expense form setting forth the reasonable expenses incurred for which city payment is sought. Original receipts documenting each expense must accompany the form, except for reasonable and customary out-of-pocket expenses such as tolls, valet services, gratuities, and mileage. If a travel expense form has not been filed within 60 days after incurring an expenditure, the city shall not reimburse such expenses.
(Ord. No. 2006-12-94, § 1(ch. 2, art. 1, § 6), 12-19-2006)
Sec. 2-20. - Subpoenas.
(a)
Any witness who shall fail to respond to a subpoena lawfully issued by or for the council, or who shall refuse to testify under oath, shall be guilty of contempt.
(b)
The subpoenas referenced in subsection (a) of this section shall bear witness in the name of the mayor; shall be issued by the city clerk; and shall be served by the chief of police, any police officer, or by such other person as the mayor may designate.
(c)
Should any person fail to respond to a subpoena of the council, after having been lawfully served, without good cause, or should the person refuse to testify under oath, then the council shall hold the person in contempt and, in its discretion, punish the person by the imposition of a fine according to the maximum allowed by state law. Each of the failures or refusals, herein described, shall constitute a separate contempt.
(Ord. No. 2006-12-94, § 1(ch. 2, art. 1, § 5), 12-19-2006)
Charter reference— Inquiries and investigations, § 2.08.
Sec. 2-21. - Benefits.
(a)
Participation. Effective for the 2022 plan year, the mayor and council members and members of their immediate families (who otherwise qualify pursuant to city plans and policies) shall be eligible to participate in any city health insurance plan or other employee benefits offered to city employees, with the exception of workers' compensation and retirement benefits.
(b)
Cost. The premiums or costs associated with such health insurance or other employee benefits offered to the mayor and council members shall be the sole responsibility of the mayor or council member respectively, and each such participating member shall promptly reimburse the city for any payment made on his or her behalf.
(c)
Procedure. Any members of mayor and council desiring to participate in such employee benefits shall follow the process and procedures established by the city manager and the city's human resources director.
( Ord. No. 2021-11-38 , § 1, 11-2-2021)
Secs. 2-22—2-44. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS; RULES AND PROCEDURE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-45. - Amendments to the rules.
Any amendments to the rules of order shall be submitted by a councilmember in writing to the city manager three business days before a regular meeting of the city council. The proposed amendment shall be included in the agenda for that meeting and distributed to all councilmembers. All amendments require a two-thirds vote of the council to be adopted.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(9), 1-24-2006)
Sec. 2-46. - Suspending the rules of order.
Rules of order may be suspended in the case of an emergency. A motion to suspend the rules requires a second, is debatable, and requires a two-thirds vote of the council. Rules governing quorums (section 2-53), voting methods and requirements (section 2-58), the notification to councilmembers of meetings (section 2-48) and rules necessary for compliance with state law or the City Charter may not be suspended; provided, however, that, in the event that a state of emergency is declared by the governor or other authorized state official, the city council may waive time-consuming procedures and formalities imposed by state law.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(10), 1-24-2006)
Sec. 2-47. - Regular meetings, rescheduling meetings.
Regular meetings of the city council shall be held at 6:00 p.m. on the first, second and third Tuesdays of each month. If the regular meeting falls on a federal holiday, the council may reschedule the meeting to the next Tuesday and publish the time change. Any meeting of the council may be continued or adjourned from day to day, or for more than one day, but no adjournment shall be for a longer period than until the next regular meeting thereafter. All regular meetings shall be held at city hall in the council meeting room.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(11), 1-24-2006; Ord. No. 2006-12-94, § 1(ch. 2, art. 1, § 1(b), (d)), 12-19-2006)
State Law reference— Open and public meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-48. - Rescheduled meetings.
A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled, recessed or moved to a new location within the city site by the mayor for any reason. In addition to the notice required by O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to the legal organ of the city, as well as to each member of the city council.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(12), 1-24-2006)
Charter reference— Calling special meetings, § 2.09(d).
State Law reference— Operation of government bodies during emergency, O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-54, 38-3-55.
Sec. 2-49. - Executive sessions.
Executive sessions of the council may be held for the purpose of discussing topics exempted from public access requirements by O.C.G.A. title 50, ch. 14 (O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.). Any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exemptions shall be open to the public.
(1)
Nonexempt topics. If a councilmember attempts to discuss a nonexempt topic during an executive session, the mayor shall immediately rule that councilmember out of order and such discussion shall cease. If the councilmember persists in discussing the nonexempt topic, the mayor shall adjourn the meeting immediately.
(2)
Procedure for entering into executive sessions. No executive session shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the city council taken in a public meeting. The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the councilmembers present, those voting for the executive session, and the specific reasons for the executive session. All votes taken on items discussed in executive session shall be taken in an open meeting.
(3)
Executive session minutes. Minutes of executive sessions devoted to any topic other than land acquisition may be maintained by the clerk at the direction of the mayor. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosure of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the city council, may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated, or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated.
a.
Executive sessions discussing real estate acquisition. Minutes of an executive session in which the acquisition of real estate is discussed shall be taken in the same manner as minutes of an open meeting and available for public inspection except that any portion of the minutes identifying the real estate shall be redacted until such time as the action for acquisition of the real estate is taken, or decision is reached that the proposed acquisition is to be terminated or abandoned or until court actions are to be initiated through the use of condemnation proceedings.
b.
Other executive sessions. Minutes of executive sessions devoted to any topic other than land acquisition may be maintained by the clerk at the direction of the mayor. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosure of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the city council may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated, or abandoned or court proceedings have been initiated.
(4)
Mayor or presiding officer affidavit. The mayor or other presiding officer shall execute an affidavit stating, under oath, that the executive session was devoted to topics exempt from the public access requirements. The affidavit shall include the specific exemption to the open meetings law. The affidavit shall be notarized and filed with the minutes of the open meeting.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(2), 1-24-2006)
State Law reference— Closed meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-4.
Sec. 2-50. - Mayor; presiding officer.
The presiding officer of the city council shall be the mayor except as otherwise provided in the Charter. The presiding officer is responsible for the orderly conduct of the meeting. In order to fulfill this duty, the presiding officer shall enforce the rules of procedure that are adopted by the city council. The presiding officer shall be impartial and conduct the meetings in a fair manner. The mayor may not introduce motions or second motions except that the mayor may introduce or second a motion to go into executive session as authorized by section 2-49. The mayor shall vote only in the case of a tie or in the case where his vote will provide the third affirmative vote required for approval of a matter.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(5), 1-24-2006)
Charter reference— Powers and duties of mayor, § 3.01; voting by mayor, § 2.10.
Sec. 2-51. - Mayor pro tempore.
Following the induction of the mayor and councilmembers, the city council, by a majority vote of the councilmembers, shall elect a councilmember to be mayor pro tempore, who shall serve for a term of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified. The mayor pro tempore shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor during the mayor's disability or absence, except that the mayor pro tempore shall continue to vote as a councilmember and may not exercise the mayor's prerogative to vote in the case of a tie. During the mayor's disability or absence, the mayor pro tempore may veto any action of council. If the mayor pro tempore is absent because of sickness or disqualification, any one of the remaining councilmembers, chosen by the members present, shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the mayor's duties in the same manner as the mayor pro tempore.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, §§ 1(6),(7), 1-24-2006)
Charter reference— Similar provisions, § 2.09(b).
Sec. 2-52. - Parliamentarian.
The city attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for city council meetings.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(8), 1-24-2006)
Sec. 2-53. - Quorum.
A quorum must be present for conducting meetings of the city council. A quorum is four members of the city council. It is the duty of the mayor or presiding officer to enforce this rule. Any councilmember may raise a point of order directed to the mayor or presiding officer if he believes that a quorum is not present. If, during the course of a meeting, a councilmember or councilmembers leave and a quorum no longer exists, the meeting may not continue. If a quorum is not attained within 30 minutes, the meeting may be rescheduled by the mayor or presiding officer with the approval of the councilmembers present.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(4), 1-24-2006)
Charter reference— Quorum, § 2.10.
Sec. 2-54. - Order of business.
All regular city council meetings shall substantially follow an established order of business. The order shall be as follows:
(1)
Call to order.
(2)
Roll call.
(3)
Invocation.
(4)
Pledge of Allegiance.
(5)
Approval of meeting agenda.
(6)
Consent agenda.
(7)
Reports and presentations.
(8)
Unfinished business.
(9)
New business.
(10)
Public comment.
(11)
Adjournment.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(13), 1-24-2006)
Sec. 2-55. - Agenda.
The city manager shall prepare an agenda of subjects to be acted on for each meeting. Work session topics and council agenda items shall be submitted consistent with the attached process. An agenda approval meeting shall be held by the city manager and the mayor to finalize the agenda. The agenda shall be made available to the city council at least one business day before every city council meeting.
(1)
Requests for agenda items. Members of the public may request that a particular subject be placed on the agenda for a meeting. To be considered, this request shall be submitted in writing to the respective district councilperson.
(2)
Changing the agenda. The order of the agenda may be changed during a meeting by a majority vote of the city council. A new item, other than a zoning decision, may be added to the agenda by a majority vote of the city council, only if it becomes necessary to address the item during the meeting. An existing item may be removed from the agenda by the majority vote of the city council.
(3)
Agenda must be made public. The agenda of all matters to come before the city council shall be made available to the public upon request and shall be posted at the meeting site as far in advance as reasonably possible, but not more than two weeks prior to the meeting, not less than 24 hours prior to the start of the meeting.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(14), 1-24-2006)
Charter reference— Duty of mayor regarding agenda, § 3.01(b)(11).
State Law reference— Agendas, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-56. - Consent agenda.
A consent agenda may be prepared by the city manager for the city council to unanimously adopt motions on routine items. Any items of business that are expected to receive unanimous approval without debate may be placed on a consent agenda. At the appropriate time of the meeting, the mayor shall read all of the items on the consent agenda. If a councilmember objects to an item being on the consent agenda, the councilmember shall direct the move of that particular item to the regular agenda. Following the reading of the consent agenda, the mayor may ask for unanimous approval of the items on the consent agenda. If there are no objections, all the items on the consent agenda shall be approved by a majority vote of the city council.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(15), 1-24-2006)
Sec. 2-57. - Decorum.
All councilmembers shall conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks shall be directed to the mayor and not to individual councilmembers, staff, or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate and may be ruled out of order. A councilmember may not speak at a meeting until he has been recognized by the mayor. All comments made by a councilmember shall address the motion that is being discussed. The mayor shall enforce these rules of decorum. If a councilmember believes that a rule has been broken, he may raise a point of order. A second is not required. The mayor may rule on the question or may allow the city council to debate the issue and decide by majority vote.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(16), 1-24-2006)
Sec. 2-58. - Voting.
Passage of a motion shall require the affirmative vote of at least three persons voting, and must receive the affirmative vote of a majority of those voting at which a quorum is present. Unless otherwise specified in the Charter as it pertains to voting by the mayor, a majority shall mean at least one-half of the councilmembers present plus one councilmember, excluding abstentions. When a two-thirds majority is specified, a majority vote shall mean at least two-thirds of the councilmembers present excluding abstentions. In the event of a tie vote, the mayor shall vote to break the tie.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(17), 1-24-2006)
Charter reference— Quorum, voting, § 2.10.
Sec. 2-59. - Abstentions.
A councilmember shall vote on all motions unless he has a conflict of interest preventing him from making a decision in a fair and legal manner. If a conflict of interest does exist, the councilmember shall explain for the record his decision to abstain on any vote.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(18), 1-24-2006)
Charter reference— Abstentions, § 2.10.
Sec. 2-60. - Public participation.
Public participation in meetings of the city council shall be permitted in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
Public comments. The final agenda item of the meeting shall be reserved for comments from the public. All members of the public wishing to address the city council shall submit their name and the topic of their comments to the city clerk prior to the start of any meeting held by the city council; provided, however, that if the applicants of rezoning actions or individual who wish to oppose a rezoning action has contributed more than $250.00 to the campaign of a councilmember, the individual shall file a campaign disclosure form as required by O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-3 at least five calendar days prior to the first hearing by the city council. Individuals may be allotted five minutes to make their comments and those comments shall be limited to their chosen topic. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the city council.
(2)
Agenda items considered by council. By a majority vote, the city council may allow public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the city council. These comments shall be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for five minutes and may speak only once. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the city council. Anyone wishing to speak at any city council meeting must be recognized by the mayor before addressing the city council.
(3)
Decorum. Members of the public shall not make inappropriate or offensive comments at a city council meeting and are expected to comply with the rules of decorum that are established for councilmembers. Individuals violating any rules of the city council may be ruled out of order by the mayor or on a point of order made by a councilmember. A majority vote of the city council shall rule on the point out of order. An individual violating the rules of decorum may be removed from the meeting at the direction of the mayor.
(4)
Public hearings. The city council may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the city council. Hearings may be held immediately prior to, during or following a meeting of the city council or at such other places and times as the city council may determine. Hearings require at least ten minutes per side. These limits may be waived by a majority vote of the city council. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing. Hearings on zoning decisions shall be governed in accordance with the zoning policies and procedures.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(19), 1-24-2006)
State Law reference— Notice and hearing regarding zoning decisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66-4, 36-66-5.
Sec. 2-61. - Minutes.
(a)
More detailed information than required by O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 may be included in the minutes at the request of the city council.
(b)
The city council shall approve the minutes before they may be considered as an official record of the city council. The minutes shall be open for public inspection once approved as official by the city council but in no case later than immediately following the next regular meeting of the city council. A copy of the minutes from the previous meeting shall be distributed to the city council at least one business day before the following meeting. The minutes of the previous meeting shall be corrected, if necessary, and approved by the city council at the beginning of each meeting. A majority vote is required for approval. Conflicts regarding the content of the minutes shall be decided by a majority vote. Upon being approved, the minutes shall be signed by the mayor and attested to by the clerk of the city council.
(Ord. No. 2006-01-08, § 1(21), 1-24-2006)
Charter reference— Minutes, art. II, § 2.10.
Sec. 2-62. - Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised.
The provisions of this division shall serve as the rules and procedures of the city council. In the absence of applicable rules and procedures, which may from time to time be encountered during the public meetings, Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, shall be followed.
Secs. 2-63—2-80. - Reserved.
