Sec. 4.16 - Open Space Standards.
Open space requirements of the underlying zoning districts shall govern the percentage of open space required, subject to the following modifications.
A.
Categories of Open Space. Open space required in the designated Overlay District shall be held under unitary ownership or control and shall consist of any of the following three categories of land:
1.
Primary conservation area. This category includes streams; wetlands designated by the national wetlands inventory; 100-year floodplain, as identified on federal insurance rate maps; steep slopes exceeding 25 percent; areas of exposed rock; and private cemeteries and burial grounds. These areas shall be left in a natural and undisturbed state, except for the fewest possible perpendicular crossings of essential access roads and utility lines.
2.
Secondary conservation area. This category includes land in water supply watersheds; aquifer recharge areas identified in the Clayton County Comprehensive Plan; riparian and wetland buffers that are over 25 feet in width; significant habitat areas, as identified in the Clayton County Comprehensive Plan; areas containing archaeologically or historically significant structures or sites, as identified in the Clayton County Comprehensive Plan; and related contextual areas, soils unsuitable for septic tanks, prime agricultural soils, mature hardwood forest, meadows, farm fields, pastures and other areas with scenic views.
3.
Outdoor recreation area. This category includes greenways, trails, bikeways, paths, tennis courts, ball fields, playfields, courts, golf courses, swimming pools, clubhouses, bicycle facilities, equestrian facilities, beaches, docks, seating areas, amphitheaters, stages, band shells, community buildings, fountains, plazas, patios, decks, lawns, picnic shelters and picnic areas, landscaping and other land containing outdoor recreation structures and facilities. Lakes and ponds are allowed in outdoor recreation areas, but their surface area shall not be counted as open space.
B.
Impervious Areas. Parking lots, drives, walks, buildings and other impervious surfaces may be included in required open space, provided that they constitute no more than ten percent of the total required open space.
C.
Accessibility of Open Space. Open space shall be designed and located for the convenient access and enjoyment of all users of the property. Access to open space shall be within 1,000 feet of all occupied buildings in the development. All occupied buildings shall be connected to the open space by improved pathways or sidewlaks.
D.
Contiguous Open Space. Not less than 50 percent of required open space shall be in a contiguous tract.
E.
Interconnected Open Space Network. It is the intent of this section that the protected conservation areas, open spaces, greenways, bikeways, trails, sidewalks and outdoor recreation areas within a development that provides open space be continuous with compatible areas containing similar features on abutting property. The design of developments shall provide for maximum connections, providing pedestrian and bike access to off-site and on-site attractions such as public trails, paths, parks, and wildlife refuges; public facilities such as community centers, schools, libraries, fire and police stations, senior centers, railroad right-of-way, and utility easements; and institutions such as universities, churches, museums and other cultural facilities.
F.
Ownership, Maintenance, and Control of Open Space. Common open space within a development shall be held in unitary ownership or control and perpetually administered and maintained by any of the following methods, either individually or in combination, and subject to approval by the County:
1.
Fee-simple dedication. Open space or common areas within developments may be offered for dedication to the public at the time of application. Dedication shall take the form of a fee simple ownership and be accepted by the Board of Commissioners. The County may, but shall not be required to, accept undivided open space, provided that:
a.
The size, location, type of development, cost of development or maintenance of such open space or common area or the availability of public open space would make public use desirable or necessary.
b.
Such land is accessible to the public.
c.
There is no cost to the County.
d.
The developer conveys to the County a copy of the deed of conveyance and a title certificate or, at the request of the Zoning Administrator, a commitment for a policy of title insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia, assuring unencumbered title for all lands proposed to be conveyed to the County, other appropriate governmental agency or other organization, including the nonprofit organization.
2.
Property Owners Association. The undivided open space and associated facilities may be held in common ownership in perpetuity by a Property Owners' Association established in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia. The association shall be formed and operated under the following additional provisions:
a.
The developer shall provide a description of the association, including its bylaws and methods for maintaining open space.
b.
The association shall be organized by the developer and shall be operated by the developer until the sale of two-thirds of the lots within the development.
c.
Membership in the association is mandatory for all purchasers of property and their successors.
d.
The association shall be responsible for perpetual maintenance of insurance and taxes on undivided open space, enforceable by liens placed by the County or any homeowner on the association.
3.
Private conservation organization. The owner of open space may transfer casements to a private, non-profit organization among whose purposes it is to perpetually conserve open space, provided that:
a.
The organization is a conservation organization with perpetual existence.
b.
The conveyance contains appropriate provisions for proper reversion or retransfer, in the event that the organization becomes unwilling or unable to continue carrying out its functions.
c.
A perpetual maintenance agreement acceptable to the County is entered into by the developer and the organization subject to the provision of Article 6.25 of the Subdivision Regulations.
d.
Prior to dedication or conveyance of open space, the following documents shall be submitted to and approved by the County and such approval shall be obtained before any final plat is recorded or final site plan is approved. Such documents, once approved, shall become part of the recorded subdivision plat or approved site plan.
i.
Specification of the ownership of the common open space.
ii.
The articles of incorporation or other organizational documentation for the nonprofit organization.
iii.
The bylaws of the non-profit organization. The covenants or restrictions related to the use of common property, including the system and amounts of assessments for perpetuation and maintenance.
iv.
The covenants or restrictions related to the use of common property, including the system and amounts of assessments for perpetuation and maintenance.
v.
A document granting the right-of-entry upon such common property to the County law enforcement officers, rescue squad personnel and fire fighting personnel while in the pursuit of their duties, and, in the case of private streets and common driveways, permitting the enforcement of cleared emergency vehicle access.
vi.
A specification of methods of maintenance, responsibilities of maintenance, and a recommended time schedule for the maintenance of major facilities, including streets, street signs, pools, sidewalks, parking areas and buildings.
vii.
A guarantee that any association formed to own and maintain open space will not be dissolved without notice to the County.
viii.
A copy of the proposed notice that will be given to prospective buyers regarding the organization, assessments and fiscal program.
ix.
A specification of compulsory membership and compulsory assessment provisions.
G.
Liens by Clayton County. In the event that the party responsible for maintenance of the open space fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and condition, the County reserves the right to seek a court order allowing it to enter the property, take corrective action, and receive a judgment for the costs of corrective action as well as attorney's fees for bringing the action.
