Sec. 4.17 - Architectural Standards.
The following architectural standards shall apply:
1.
Minimum Facade Height. A minimum facade height of 18 feet shall be maintained on arterial and collector roadways.
2.
Street Orientation. Principal building entrances shall be oriented to public streets wherever possible. When approved by the Zoning Administrator, a principal building entrance may be oriented to a side yard provided said entrance is not more than 100 feet from the right-of-way of an adjacent street and directly connected to the adjacent street frontage by a continuous sidewalk not less than 5 feet in width.
3.
Building Materials. Buildings materials for all exterior wall facades shall be constructed of brick, stone, textured concrete masonry units, stucco, or glass. Single-family dwelling facades shall be constructed with brick, stone, stucco, cement fiber board, wood siding or similar material approved by the Zoning Administrator.
4.
Color. All materials shall be earth-tone in color, as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
5.
Prohibited Materials. Metal siding, vinyl siding, metal canopies and smooth faced concrete masonry units are prohibited.
6.
Exceptions. Vinyl products shall only be used for soffits, eaves, and fascia of residential structures.
7.
Customer Entrances for Non-Residential Uses. All customer entrances located along the front facade, shall feature a combination of three or more of the following features:
a.
Canopies and porticos.
b.
Overhangs.
c.
Recesses or projections.
d.
Arcades.
e.
Raised, corniced parapets.
f.
Peaked roof forms.
g.
Arches.
h.
Display windows.
i.
Architectural details, such as tile work and moldings which are incorporated into the building structure and design.
8.
Single-Family Residential. Each single-family attached and/or detached dwelling unit shall utilize at least four of the following architectural design features:
a.
Dormers.
b.
Bay or bow windows.
c.
Garage setback at least 20 feet behind the facade of the principal structure.
d.
Side- or rear-entry garage.
e.
Covered porch entry (covered front porch).
f.
Transoms and sidelights.
g.
Off-sets on building face or roof (minimum two feet).
h.
A roof with a pitch greater than 8:12 and a minimum overhang of 12 inches on all sides.
i.
Columns, pillars, or posts on facade.
j.
Shutters and other window decorations.
k.
Arched or Palladian windows.
l.
Hip and gable roof lines.
9.
Accessory Structures. Building materials, architectural features and colors of exterior finishes of accessory structures shall be consistent with the principal structure.
10.
Massing and Modulation. The massing of building facades oriented to public streets shall incorporate either modulation, defined here as a wave in the exterior wall, with horizontal breaks at least every 100 feet. Front facade design shall provide varying wall offsets and other architectural features to create horizontal (wall) and vertical building articulation.
11.
Fenestration. At least 40 percent of non-residential facades facing arterial and collector roadways must be clear glass.
12.
Roof features. Rooflines shall incorporate roof features (extensions, and/or projections such as a gable, parapet, dormers or others) that achieve visual interest through variation of the roofline. These features shall conform to the following specifications:
a.
Roof features shall not exceed the average height of the supporting walls.
b.
The average height of parapets shall not exceed 15 percent of the height of the supporting wall. Parapets shall feature three dimensional cornice treatments.
c.
Cornices shall have perceptible projection or overhanging eaves that extend past the supporting walls.
d.
The roof pitch of sloped roofs shall be a minimum of 4:12 (vertical to horizontal).
13.
Roof Top Equipment. All roof-top equipment shall be screened from public view by parapets, dormers or other screens.
14.
Fencing. Chain link fencing shall not be visible from any public street.
