Sec. 4.101 - Architectural Standards.
A.
The following architectural regulations shall apply to all structures within the District and the architectural style within the District shall be consistent with the District Design Guidelines:
1.
All building facades visible from a public street shall consist of eighty (80) percent brick, textured concrete masonry, stone, glass, finished masonry materials or hard coat stucco, or a combination thereof.
2.
Office buildings must utilize architectural concrete and glass façade, facing a public right-of-way.
3.
Architectural accents, where utilized, shall consist of metal, non-reflective glass, glass block, natural stone, pre-cast concrete, brick, terra cotta, stucco, hardi-plank or wood.
4.
Non-primary walls visible from residential uses, public open spaces, outdoor patios, pedestrian paths, roadways or parking areas shall incorporate changes in building material/color or varying design.5. Mixed-use developments with ground floor non-residential uses shall provide fenestration that is comprised of sixty (60) percent of the width of the front façade of the building at the ground level.
6.
Relationship of building to street.
(A)
For purposes of this chapter, sidewalk-level shall be defined as any floor of a building with a finished-floor elevation less than or equal to five feet above the adjacent sidewalk or less than or equal to five feet below the adjacent sidewalk.
(B)
Building floors shall be delineated at third story above sidewalk level and lower and shall be executed through windows, belt courses, cornice lines or similar architectural detailing.
(C)
The primary pedestrian entrance for pedestrians to access all uses with street frontage:
i.
Shall face and be visible from the street. When located adjacent along Tara Boulevard or Old Dixie Highway, said entrance shall face and be visible from said street.
ii.
Shall be directly accessible and visible from the sidewalk.
iii.
Shall remain unlocked during business hours for nonresidential uses.
(D)
A street address number shall be located directly above the primary building entrance, shall be clearly visible from the sidewalk and shall be a minimum of six inches in height.
(E)
Buildings with residential uses at the sidewalk level shall meet the following regulations:
i.
All primary pedestrian entrances not adjacent to a public sidewalk shall be linked to the public sidewalk with a pedestrian walkway a minimum of five-feet wide. Said pedestrian walkway shall be perpendicular to the street and shall be permitted to share said walkway with one adjacent unit.
ii.
All such buildings with more than four residential units that are adjacent to the sidewalk shall have individual entrances to such units directly accessible from the sidewalk and shall open directly onto the adjacent sidewalk, park, plaza, terrace or porch adjacent to the sidewalk. All pedestrian walkways providing such access shall be perpendicular to the street and shall be permitted to share said walkway with no more than one adjacent unit.
iii.
Such buildings shall have windows at sidewalk level on each street frontage facade which are substantially similar in size to the sidewalk level front façade windows.
(F)
Sidewalk arcades. Buildings with non-residential uses at the sidewalk level may have sidewalk arcades, which shall meet the following regulations:
i.
Shall provide an at grade sidewalk surface.
ii.
Arcade supports shall be a maximum width of five feet.
iii.
Shall provide a minimum of 25 feet of clear unobstructed space between arcade supports.
7.
The building wall along street facing ground floors shall be comprised of at least 60% of glass along the ground floor.
8.
Canopies over entrances and/or windows shall be mounted at a single consistent height for each building and shall comply with the District Design Guideline requirements for canopies.
9.
A minimum of sixty (60) percent of the ground-floor facade of non-residential windows shall be clear or tinted so that at least seventy (70) percent of light filters through the window.
10.
Roof materials shall not consist of any reflective surfaces.
11.
All materials shall be earth-tone in color, and shall be similar throughout the development, or as approved by the Overlay Design Review Committee.
12.
Burglar bars and steel roll down doors or curtains shall not be visible from any public street. If burglar bars are utilized they shall be artistic or decorative on the side or rear doors or windows as approved by the Overlay Design Review Committee. See Figure 1.0 below.
Figure 1.0 Example of Artistic/Decorative Burglar Bars
13.
Loading bays shall be designed so that doors or openings are not visible from a public street.
(A)
Dumpsters shall not be visible from any public street and shall be fenced or screened not to be visible from any public areas including public parking areas or adjacent residential development. Screening materials shall be finished to be compatible with the color and finished exterior of the primary building it serves.
(B)
Fabric and canvas awnings and all other building materials must be of durable quality and shall be of compatible materials used in the development. Metal or temporary awnings are not permitted.
(C)
Temporary structures such as tents, trailers, and mobile structures are prohibited. except for a permitted temporary use under an allowable permit.
(D)
Accessory Structures. Building materials, architectural features and colors of exterior finishes of accessory structures shall be consistent with the principal structure.
(E)
Roof Top Equipment. All roof-top equipment shall be screened from public view by parapets, dormers or other screens.
(F)
Parking decks shall not exceed the height of the tallest adjacent building within the development.
(Ord. No. 2018-129, § 1, 12-18-18)
