Sec. 4.55 - Non-residential Land Uses.
A.
Architectural Standards. Architectural design of all buildings and structures, excluding those utilized for residential land uses, shall adhere to the following standards:
1.
All building facades facing public streets and all non-residential primary structures shall have facades constructed of brick, granite, stone, marble, terrazzo, architecturally treated reinforced concrete slabs, either fluted or with exposed aggregate, insulated window wall panels or stainless steel, porcelain-treated steel, anodized or other permanently finished aluminum.
2.
No more than 50 percent of each facade of any primary structure shall be constructed of metal panels with a baked-on enamel or acrylic finish (which must be expected to retain its appearance without substantial maintenance for a period of ten years), stucco, dryvit, concrete block with either sculptured treatment or stack bond with sculptured treatment, or split-faced decorative block.
3.
Walls visible from roadways or parking areas shall incorporate changes in building material, varying wall offsets and/or other architectural features every 100 linear feet.
4.
Building materials, architectural features and colors of exterior finishes of accessory structures shall be consistent with the principal structure.
5.
All roof-top equipment shall be screened from public view by parapets, dormers or other screens. The average height of parapets shall not exceed 15 percent of the height of the supporting wall, and shall not at any point exceed a height equal to 30 percent of the supporting wall.
6.
The maximum height of primary structures shall be 40 feet with no more than two floors. The maximum structure height for accessory structures shall be 25 feet.
7.
Sloped roofs shall feature a roof plane change, gable, or dormer for every 100 linear feet.
8.
The roof pitch for sloped roofs shall be a minimum of 4:12 over the primary structure.
9.
Chain link fencing shall not be visible from any public street.
10.
Burglar bars, steel gates, metal awnings and steel roll-down curtains are prohibited on the exterior and interior of the structure, except on the structure's rear.
11.
Vending machines, paper stands, and other similar devices must be located within a building.
12.
Outdoor storage of propane tanks shall be permitted. Propane tank storage shall be screened from view from any public right-of-way.
B.
Sign standards. The sign standards established within Article 8, Sign Standards (SS), of the Zoning Ordinance shall be applied to all non-residential properties within the Highway 54 Corridor Overlay District, along with the following additional requirements:
1.
Ground signs shall not exceed 8 feet in height.
2.
Signs shall reflect and complement the building materials, colors, and other design details of the principal structure on the lot upon which the sign is installed.
C.
Landscaping standards. The landscaping standards established in Article 6.34, Landscaping Standards (LA), shall apply to all non-residential properties within the Highway 54 Corridor Overlay District, along with the following additional requirements:
1.
A landscaped strip a minimum of 10 feet in width shall be provided along all side and rear property lines.
2.
A landscaped strip a minimum of 15 feet in width shall be required along the front property line.
3.
Landscaped strips along public rights-of-way shall be continuous except at points of ingress or egress onto the property.
4.
Landscaped strips may consist of ground cover, shrubs, trees, and hardscape elements such as planters and benches, or any combination thereof. Areas of exposed earth shall not be allowed.
5.
All landscaped strips shall be maintained by the property owner. Any tree, shrub or ground cover which dies shall be replaced within the earliest planting season.
D.
Sidewalks. Public sidewalks within the public right-of-way shall be provided adjacent to all development sites within the Highway 54 Overlay District, and shall meet the following requirements:
1.
All sidewalks shall have a minimum width of 5 feet along all roads in residentially zoned or used areas and 6 feet in all commercial, industrial, and mixed use development areas as defined within the Department of Transportation and Development's Land Disturbance and Right-of-Way Construction Guidelines.
2.
All sidewalks shall be properly flared to match any existing connecting sidewalks.
3.
On-site sidewalks shall connect the street to the main entrance of the principal structure on the site. If an on-site sidewalk crosses a parking lot, drive aisle, or driveway, the crossing shall be clearly marked or identifiable through the use of striping or speed bumps.
E.
Parking Standards. Off-street parking shall be required as in Article 6.32. Parking Standards (PK), of the Zoning Ordinance, except as provided below:
1.
No more than 25 percent of the required number of parking spaces shall be located in the front yard.
2.
Where a parking lot is adjacent to a street or public right-of-way, the parking lot shall be screened from the right-of-way by a minimum 3-feet in height and 3-feet in width, dense evergreen hedge or by a brick, stone or textured concrete masonry unit wall not less than 3 feet in height.
3.
The Zoning Administrator may approve a reduction of up to 25 percent in the number of parking spaces required for a specific use where inter-parcel access is provided and a shared parking analysis, which is approved by the Zoning Administrator, demonstrates that adequate parking will be provided. The process for determining the minimum parking requirements for a mixed-use development or for contiguous properties containing multiple uses is:
a.
Determine the minimum number of parking spaces required for each use category from Article 6.32, Parking Standards (PK) of the Zoning Ordinance.
b.
Multiply each parking requirement by the corresponding percentage for each of the time periods shown on the table below.
c.
Total the number of parking spaces for each of the time periods (add together the numbers in each column).
d.
The largest column total is the minimum shared parking requirement for the development or collectively for the contiguous properties.
e.
In no case shall parking spaces that are farther than 1,000 feet from a building entrance be allowed to satisfy off-street parking requirements for a use or be counted towards shared parking requirements.
Shared parking space requirements
EXPAND
WEEKDAYS WEEKENDS
Use Daytime
6 a.m.—5 p.m. Evening
5 p.m.—1 a.m. Daytime
6 a.m.—5 p.m. Evening
5 p.m.—1 a.m.
Residential 80% 100% 80% 100%
Office 100% 10% 20% 5%
Retail 95% 85% 100% 70%
Hotel 60% 100% 60% 100%
Restaurant 75% 100% 60% 100%
Entertainment 50% 85% 70% 100%
Church 50% 50% 100% 60%
  4.
Loading Standards. Off-street loading shall be required as in Article 6.33, Loading Standards (LD), of the Zoning Ordinance, except as provided below:
a.
Off-street loading shall be limited to the area between the rear of the principal structure and the rear lot setback line, or between the side of the principal building and the side lot setback line.
b.
Where a loading area is visible from a street or public right-of-way, the loading area shall be screened from the right-of-way by a minimum 5-feet in height and 5-feet in width, dense evergreen hedge or by a brick, stone or textured concrete masonry unit wall not less than 5 feet in height.
G.
Outdoor Lighting Standards. All outdoor lighting shall adhere to the standards set forth within Article 6.36, Outdoor Lighting Standards (OL).
