ARTICLE III. - PHOSPHATE-FREE LAUNDRY DETERGENT

Sec. 38-76. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Household laundry detergent means a laundering cleaning compound in liquid, bar, spray, tablet, flake, powder, or other form used for domestic clothes-cleaning purposes. The term "household laundry detergent" shall not mean:
(1)
A dishwashing compound, household cleaner, metal cleaner, degreasing compound, commercial cleaner, industrial cleaner, or other substance that is intended to be used for nonlaundry cleaning purposes;
(2)
A detergent used in dairy, beverage or food processing cleaning equipment;
(3)
A phosphorus acid product, including a sanitizer, brightener, acid cleaner or metal conditioner;
(4)
A detergent used in hospitals, veterinary hospitals or clinics, health care facilities or in agricultural production;
(5)
A detergent used by industry for metal cleaning or conditioning;
(6)
A detergent manufactured, stored or distributed for use or sale outside of the state;
(7)
A detergent used in any laboratory, including a biological laboratory, research facility, chemical laboratory, and engineering laboratory; or
(8)
A detergent used in a commercial laundry that provides laundry services for a hospital, health care facility, or veterinary hospital.
Phosphorus means elemental phosphorus.
(Code 1973, § 2-19-30)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 38-77. - Declaration of policy.
O.C.G.A. § 12-5-27.1 provides that whenever a local governmental entity is required by the environmental protection division to reduce phosphorus in its wastewater being discharged into the waters of the state, such local government entity shall pass an ordinance mandating the retail sale of low-phosphorus household laundry detergent as part of its phosphorus reduction process. It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the county to encourage the use of clean, phosphate-free household laundry detergents and to prohibit the sale of household laundry detergents which contain more than 0.5 percent phosphorus by weight. The county finds that such use and sale will be a cost-effective way to reduce the amount of phosphorus in wastewater discharge so as to protect the state's rivers and lakes downstream and promote health, safety and welfare, prevent injury to human health, plant and animal life and property. It is vital to the health, well-being and welfare of present and future inhabitants of the county that these sources be protected against contamination and pollution.
(Code 1973, § 2-19-31)
Sec. 38-78. - Activity prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at the retail level a household laundry detergent which contains greater than 0.5 percent phosphorus by weight and is intended to be used for domestic clothes-cleaning purposes.
(Code 1973, § 2-19-32)
Sec. 38-79. - Penalties for violation.
The violation of any provision of this article shall be treated by the courts of this state in the same manner as a misdemeanor with punishment in accordance with section 1-12.
(Code 1973, § 2-19-33)
Sec. 38-80. - Actions to compel compliance.
In addition to the penalty provided in section 38-79, the county may maintain an action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or restrain any violation of this article.
(Code 1973, § 2-19-34)
Sec. 38-81. - Right of persons to damages.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to abridge, limit or otherwise impair the right of any person to damages or other relief on account of injuries to persons or property arising out of a violation of this article and to maintain any action or other appropriate proceeding therefor.
(Code 1973, § 2-19-35)
Secs. 38-82—38-90. - Reserved.
