ARTICLE III. - WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS

Sec. 14-56. - Prerequisites for keeping.
(a)
No person or business shall own, keep, harbor or permit to be kept or harbored a wild or exotic animal within the county, other than licensed persons or businesses which are approved in writing by the animal control unit, which licenses may be granted upon presentation of evidence satisfactory to the animal control unit that appropriate safeguards for protection of the public and the animal are maintained.
(b)
The provisions of this section for licensure shall not apply to any person or business that is required to be licensed and permitted by state and/or federal agencies for keeping and maintaining wild or exotic animals, where it appears that such person or facility is in fact continuously so licensed and/or permitted.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-20)
Sec. 14-57. - Sales.
Any animal establishment approved by the animal control unit offering for sale any wild and exotic animal, shall post conspicuously at the place of sale or display a notice in form and substance approved by the animal control unit that no person may lawfully own, keep, harbor or permit to be kept or harbored any wild and exotic animal within the county, including any monkey or other nonhuman primate, raccoon, skunk, wolf, squirrel, fox, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx, ferret, bear, wild rabbit and wild rodent, and reptiles including, but not limited to, crocodiles, alligators, caiman and gavials, and any other animals so designated by the animal control unit without first obtaining a license.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-21)
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.
Sec. 14-58. - Impoundment.
(a)
The animal control unit may impound any wild or exotic animal that is owned, kept or harbored in violation of this chapter, and may destroy or rehabilitate any such animal upon conviction of its owner or other responsible person for a violation of this article, notwithstanding the impoundment provisions of this chapter, provided no such animal may be destroyed without first obtaining approval of the board of county commissioners or its designee.
(b)
Any wild or exotic animal impounded pursuant to the provisions of this article shall remain impounded or confined by the animal control unit until a final order of disposition is entered by a court of competent jurisdiction with respect to the violations of this chapter.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-22)
Sec. 14-59. - Penalties for violations.
Any person in violation of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section 1-12 of this Code, together with all costs of court and a fee per day for board for each day the animal is impounded in the animal shelter.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-23)
Cross reference— Enforcement and penalties, § 14-31 et seq.
Secs. 14-60—14-80. - Reserved.
