Chapter 66 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Dumping, depositing, etc., litter on public or private property or waters, § 62-30; Excise tax on motor vehicle rental charges used to fund recreational facilities and expenses, § 90-1.
State Law reference— Power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(5); authority to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; state commission on physical fitness created, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.

Sec. 66-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Department means the county parks and recreation department, a department under the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners.
Facility means all recreation areas, buildings, structures or domiciles located in parks, including land, trails, lakes, ponds, streams, swimming pools, sports fields, cemeteries, and all other property and buildings owned, leased, controlled or managed by the county, the county parks and recreation department, the designated agents or departments of the county, and including all recreation areas and parks in the county owned by the state or federal government and managed by the county.
Park means all land, trails, lakes, ponds, streams, swimming pools, sports fields, cemeteries, natural areas, and all other property, owned, leased, controlled or managed by the county, the county parks and recreation department, the designated agents or departments of the county, and including all recreation areas and parks in the county owned by the state or federal government and managed by the county.
Person means any individual, citizen, group, association, firm, corporation or other legal entity who is authorized to use and enjoy the county's parks and any structure or facility located therein.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-1), 10-5-93; Ord. No. 2017-16, § 1, 3-7-17)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 66-2. - Penalties.
(a)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished in accordance with section 1-12.
(b)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may be barred or suspended by the department from using any or all parks, if in the department's sole discretion, such action is necessary to protect a park, the facilities located therein, or the public's health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-5), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-3. - Authority to issue citations for violations.
For the purpose of issuing citations for violations of this chapter or any rule or regulation as may be hereafter promulgated by the department, the director of the department or his designee shall be authorized to prepare, issue and serve citations on any person that in the opinion of the department director has committed a violation.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-6), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-4. - Development of recreation programs.
The authority to develop programs of recreational activities and services designed to meet the leisure time needs of all persons is hereby granted to and vested in the department. The department shall have the power to maintain and equip parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, and the facilities associated therewith, and to establish, develop, and maintain a recreational system as provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-2), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-5. - Use of grounds and facilities generally.
Every person using the parks shall clean up all debris, extinguish all permitted fires, and leave the premises in good order and the facilities located thereon in a neat and sanitary condition.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(a)), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-6. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person using the parks, grounds, or facilities to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
(1)
Willfully mar, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or remove any buildings, bridges, tables and benches, fireplaces, railings, paving or paving material, water lines or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal.
(2)
Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, or other body of water in or adjacent to a park or tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into such water, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of such waters.
(3)
Damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree or plant or any part thereof.
(4)
Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot, or throw missiles at any animal, or remove or have in one's possession the eggs, nest, or young of any wild animal.
(5)
Bring in, dump, deposit, or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse, or other trash or debris in a park or waters in or contiguous to a park.
(6)
Disturb the peace, or use any profane, obscene or inflammatory language.
(7)
Commit any assault or battery, engage in fighting, or commit any other offense in violation of federal, state or county law.
(8)
Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act.
(9)
Prevent any person from using a park, or any of its facilities, or interfere with such use in contravention of the provisions of this chapter and rules applicable thereto.
(10)
Dress or undress in a park, or in any vehicle, toilet, or other place located within a park, except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for such purpose.
(11)
Apply any chemical or fertilizer to any lawn, athletic field, soil, structure or facility of a park.
(12)
Introduce any plant material, seed, sod, tree, shrub to any lawn, athletic field, forest or soil of a park.
(13)
Violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the department relative to the use of a park.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(b)), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-7. - Hours of operation.
(a)
Facility hours. Facilities shall be open as designated by the director of the county parks and recreation department. Facility hours shall be posted in appropriate county communication channels.
(b)
Park hours. All parks shall be open daily to the general public between the hours of sunrise to sunset, as designated by the U.S. Weather Service, unless authorized by the board of commissioners on the recommendation of the chief operating officer.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person or vehicle to enter within a park or facility outside of the posted hours of operation unless such person is participating in authorized and scheduled programs, classes, special events, or meetings. A park, section of a park, facility or section of a facility may be closed to the public by the department at any time and for any length of time, either temporarily or at regular stated intervals.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(c)), 10-5-93; Ord. No. 2017-16, § 2, 3-7-17)
Sec. 66-8. - Group activity.
Whenever more than 15 members of any group desire to use a park for a particular purpose, such as a picnic, party, sports event or theatrical or other entertainment performance, a representative of such group shall first obtain a permit from the department for such purpose, unless the group is sponsored by the department as one of its scheduled programs. The department shall grant the application for a permit if it appears that the group will not interfere with the general use of the park by individual members of the public, and if the group meets all other reasonable conditions which may be imposed by the department. Such application may contain a requirement for an indemnity bond and or on site security to protect the county from liability of any kind or character and to protect county property from damage.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(d)), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-9. - Picnic areas and use.
No person shall use any picnic area or any facility located in a park for the purpose of holding picnics or other activities to the exclusion of other persons, nor shall any person use such area or facility for an unreasonable length of time if the area is crowded.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(e)), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-10. - Games.
It shall be unlawful for any person to endanger the general public in a park by taking part in or abetting the playing of any games involving thrown or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins, or model airplanes except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing of rough or potentially dangerous games such as football, baseball, and soccer is prohibited except on the fields, courts, or areas provided therefor. Park areas other than those designated as golf clubs or driving ranges may not be used for golf practice, driving ranges, or putting greens.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(1)), 10-5-93)
Cross reference— Amusements and entertainments, ch. 10.
Sec. 66-11. - Camping.
It shall be unlawful for any person to set up a tent, shack, or any other temporary shelter for the purpose of overnight stay, or to leave in a park after closing hours any movable structure or vehicle to be used or that could be used for overnight stay, such as a house trailer, camp trailer, wagon, or the like, unless authorized by the department.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(2)), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-12. - Swimming.
It shall be unlawful for any person to swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to a park except in such waters and at such locations as are designated therefor. Such swimming activity shall be in compliance with regulations pertaining thereto as set forth in this chapter or hereafter adopted.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(3)), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-13. - Boats and rafts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use a boat or raft or other flotation device on any waterway, stream, lake or pond in a park unless written authorization allowing such activity is received by the department.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(4)), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-14. - Fires.
It shall be unlawful for any person to build or attempt to build a fire except in such areas and under such regulations as determined by the department; to drop, throw, or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes, or cigars, tobacco paper, or other inflammable material within a park or on any highway, road, or street abutting, contiguous or adjacent thereto.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(5)), 10-5-93)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 42.
Sec. 66-15. - Animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to bring a dangerous animal into a park; to permit a dog to be in a park unless such dog is on a leash of not more than six feet in length; to bring any animal onto an athletic or sports field within a park; to ride, graze or walk a horse or other type of hoofed animal within a park without obtaining written authorization from the department, unless the park is specifically designated for such use; to fail to immediately remove from the park and dispose in a sanitary manner excrement deposited by an animal in the person's possession and control while in a park; to fail to have in such person's possession, having possession and control of an animal, a device or equipment for the collection and removal of animal excrement. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a person having possession or control of an animal aiding the handicapped (i.e., guide dog) or to police or rescue personnel.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(6)), 10-5-93)
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 14.
Sec. 66-16. - Automobiles and off-road vehicles.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or park any automobile or off-road vehicle except on a street, driveway, or parking lot in a park; or to leave any such vehicle in any place other than one established for public parking.
(b)
The speed limit for all vehicles shall be 15 miles per hour within all parks.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(7)), 10-5-93)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 94.
Sec. 66-17. - Sales.
It shall be unlawful for any person to vend, sell, peddle, or offer for sale any commodity or article within a park, unless such activity is authorized in writing by the department.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(8)), 10-5-93)
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.
Sec. 66-18. - Alcoholic beverages and tobacco products.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, possess or consume alcoholic beverages within a park unless a special permit for alcoholic consumption of beer and/or wine has been issued by the department.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or use tobacco products, including, but not limited to, snuff and chewing tobacco, within a park. The department shall conspicuously post signs prohibiting smoking and use of tobacco products in all parks. Smoking in a park that has clearly been designated by a no smoking sign shall, in addition to a violation of this section, be a violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-12-2, which prohibits smoking in designated public places.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(9)), 10-5-93; Ord. No. 2009-85, § 1, 6-2-09)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-85, § 1, adopted June 2, 2009, changed the title of § 66-18 from alcoholic beverages to alcoholic beverages and tobacco products.
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6.
Sec. 66-19. - Signs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, glue, tack, post, erect or cause to be erected any sign, placard, advertisement, or inscription whatsoever within a park or highway or street adjacent to a park. This provision shall not apply to any properly authorized government official in pursuit of his official duty or by a person having received written authorization from the department. Any sign, placard, advertisement, or inscription authorized to be erected shall be in compliance with the county's sign ordinance (attachment I of appendix A, zoning, of this volume) and other applicable county regulations.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(10)), 10-5-93)
Cross reference— Signs generally, app. A, attachment I.
Sec. 66-20. - Firearms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, carry or use any firearm in a park unless otherwise specifically authorized by state law.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-3(f)(11)), 10-5-93)
Sec. 66-21. - Fees.
A user fee shall be charged for any special or sports event, or other extraordinary program or activity as may be hereafter established by the department.
(Ord. No. 93-99, § I(2-19½-4), 10-5-93)
