Chapter 82 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; dumping, depositing, etc., litter on public or private property or waters, § 62-30; moving buildings, § 18-481 et seq.
State Law reference— Power to construct and maintain roads, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; probate court's jurisdiction involving the removal of obstructions from roads, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.1; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 et seq.; obstructing, encroaching on, or injuring public roads, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1; inspection of and reports on roads and bridges by county police, O.C.G.A. § 36-8-6; construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 82-1—82-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UTILITY INSTALLATIONS IN PUBLIC ROADWAYS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 98.

Sec. 82-26. - Violation; penalty.
Any person who shall violate the terms of this article, or who shall excavate or cut any public road in the county without first obtaining a permit therefor, may be subject to punishment in accordance with section 1-12.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-26)
Sec. 82-27. - Permit.
(a)
Any person shall obtain a permit prior to the installation, construction, maintenance, renewal, removal and relocation of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, drains or appliances of any utility in, on, along, over or under the public roads of the county.
(b)
Application for the permit required by this section shall be made in writing to the director of transportation and development. Such application shall specifically describe the nature, extent and location of the portion of the public roads affected. As a condition precedent to the granting of a permit, the county engineer may require the applicant to furnish an indemnity bond or other acceptable security conditioned to pay any damages to any part of the county road system or to any member of the public caused by work of the applicant under authority of such permit.
(Code 1973, §§ 2-23¾-21, 2-23¾-22)
Sec. 82-28. - Traffic regulation while work in progress.
While work is in progress, it shall be the duty and the responsibility of the applicant to insure that the work performed under authority of the permit does not unreasonably interfere with the use of the county road system. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide adequate, safe and competent traffic control at all times and to maintain adequate signal or warning devices necessary to protect the traveling public.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-23)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 94.
Sec. 82-29. - Refilling and repairing.
It shall be the duty and the responsibility of the applicant for the permit, after having made any excavation or cut in any public road of the county, to refill the same to the specifications of the director of transportation and county regulations. The cost of restoring any such excavated public road to its former condition shall be paid by the person making or causing such excavation.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-24)
Sec. 82-30. - Removal and relocation of utilities at direction of county.
Any utility using or occupying any part of a public road which the county has undertaken to improve or intends to improve shall remove and relocate its facility when in the reasonable opinion of the director of transportation the facility constitutes an obstruction or interference with the use or safe operation of such road by the traveling public or when in the reasonable opinion of the county engineer the facility will interfere with such contemplated construction or maintenance. Any such removal or relocation shall be at the expense of the utility, and at no expense to the county.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-25)
Secs. 82-31—82-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STREET LIGHTING

Sec. 82-51. - Establishment of districts—Filing petition.
Property owners residing in any unincorporated area in the county desiring street lighting for the area in which they live may petition the transportation and development department of the county to have such services. Such petition must contain not less than ten property owners representing not less than 50 percent of the property owners within the district to be established. A petition may be brought by less than ten property owners where such represents 100 percent of the property owners within the district to be established.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-46; Ord. No. 2021-48, § 1, 2-16-21)
Sec. 82-52. - Same—Public hearing on petition.
After investigation by the transportation and development department as to advisability of establishing a district under this article, the petition shall be presented to the board of commissioners for consideration upon a public hearing. After the public hearing, the petition will be either approved or disapproved by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-47; Ord. No. 2021-48, § 1, 2-16-21)
Sec. 82-53. - Standard for installation and operation adopted by reference; compliance.
The American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting, as sponsored by the Illuminating Engineering Society and approved by the American Standards Association on July 11, 1973, is hereby adopted as the standard for installation and operation of street and roadway lighting in the unincorporated areas of the county. A copy of these standards is on file with the transportation and development department, and two copies are on file in the minutes of the board of commissioners. Lighting fixtures installed within the public rights-of-way to be operated for the purpose of street illumination shall comply with these standards.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-48; Ord. No. 2021-48, § 1, 2-16-21)
Sec. 82-54. - Procedure for approval of proposed lighting within public rights-of-way; installation of security lights, etc., within public rights-of-way; installation of other lights within public rights-of-way.
(a)
Any party requesting permission to install or operate lighting fixtures within the public rights-of-way shall furnish plans and specifications to the transportation and development department for approval showing how the proposed lighting meets the standards, and no lighting shall be installed or operated without such approval. Should the transportation and development department disapprove the request to install or operate lighting fixtures within any public rights-of-way because of the failure to meet standards, the department shall communicate such disapproval in writing to the party requesting same. Such written communication shall include the specific reasons for disapproval. Any disapproval of a light or lighting system by the transportation and development department may be appealed to the board of commissioners. If any party desires to appeal an adverse decision by the transportation and development department, a notice of appeal shall be filed with the department within 30 days from the date following the written notice of disapproval, and it shall be the responsibility of the transportation and development department to transmit forthwith to the board of commissioners all papers and allied documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken and to insure that such appeal is promptly placed upon the agenda of the board for its determination. The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, require, decision or determination appealed from.
(b)
Roadway or street lighting luminaries or fixtures installed within the public rights-of-way as "security lights," or for the purpose of lighting areas other than the public streets, shall be mounted on the side of the pole opposite from such street and shall be oriented in such a manner as to insure that the lateral light distribution pattern is parallel to the street and the vertical light distribution, at the initial light source, is perpendicular to the street, so as to protect the users of the street from objectionable glare. The approval of the transportation and development department shall be obtained before installation of such lights.
(c)
Other lighting fixtures to be installed within or outside of public rights-of-way for whatever purpose shall be installed and operated in such a manner as to prevent glare from being a hazard to, or interfering with, the normal use of the public rights-of-way.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-49; Ord. No. 2021-48, § 1, 2-16-21)
Sec. 82-55. - Approval of proposed lighting installations within public rights-of-way required; installation of security lights, etc., on public rights-of-way; submission of plans and specifications for lighting fixtures in public rights-of-way.
The installation and operation of lighting fixtures located within the rights-of-way of any public street, road, highway, sidewalk or alley in the unincorporated areas of the county, or fixed to any pole, lamppost, standard or other supporting device which is located within such rights-of-way, will follow the following procedures:
(1)
Plans and specifications for the proposed installation showing compliance with these standards will be submitted to the transportation and development department for approval. No installations will be made without this approval.
(2)
Fixtures for illuminating areas adjoining the public streets, roads, etc., such as parking areas, driveways, etc., will be mounted in such a manner as to insure that the light pattern is kept off the public roadway. When street or roadway lighting luminaries are to be used for "security lighting," they will be mounted on the side of the pole that is opposite from the public street and will be mounted to insure that the lateral light distribution pattern is parallel to the street and the vertical light distribution at the initial light source is perpendicular to the street.
(3)
If lighting fixtures of a type other than those in the classification of street or roadway luminaries are to be used or if the proposed lighting is to be for other than drives, parking areas or other similar area lighting, the plans and specifications submitted will be sufficiently detailed to clearly show that such a proposal is in compliance with these standards and will not cause a hazard to, or interfere with, the normal use of the public streets, roads or highways.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-50; Ord. No. 2021-48, § 1, 2-16-21)
Sec. 82-56. - Service rates—Establishment; amendment.
The rates established for the provision and maintenance of street lights within the county shall be set by the board of commissioners in consultation with the transportation and development department. These rates will be subject to change to reflect future rate increases to the county and shall not be less than the charges to the county.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-51; Ord. No. 2021-48, § 1, 2-16-21)
Sec. 82-57. - Same—Basis for determination.
Rates shall be based upon frontage of property. Frontage will apply to street frontage toward which the house, home, building or dwelling fronts. Side yards will not be charged. Each platted lot, whether developed or not, will be subject to the assessment charges. Industrial and commercial area street-lighting rates will be determined by the number and kind of street lights necessary to meet the American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting standards.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-52)
Sec. 82-58. - Same—Collection; enforcement as lien.
The rates or charges for street light service shall constitute assessments on the property so serviced. These assessments shall be added to tax bills at the end of each year and shall constitute a lien upon the property serviced. Such lien shall have the same priority as tax assessments.
(Code 1973, § 2-23¾-53)
Secs. 82-59—82-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV - SIDEWALKS

Sec. 82-71. - Sidewalk construction.
A property owner required to construct sidewalks consistent with the Clayton County Code Section 6.28 - Public Improvement Standards (PI), Section 86-154 - Sidewalk standards, and/or other sections of the Clayton County Code regarding construction of sidewalks may upon written request to the Zoning Administrator and with the consent of the Zoning Administrator and the Director of Transportation and Development, pay the County to install said sidewalks. The owner shall pay the County an amount to be determined by the Director of Transportation and Development to cover all costs necessary to install the sidewalks as required by all applicable laws. The owner shall convey all portions of the property necessary to install the sidewalks consistent with all applicable laws at no cost to the County. Upon payment of this amount to the County and conveyance of the portions of the property necessary to install the sidewalks, the property owner will be deemed to have complied with requirements of applicable Clayton County Code regarding construction of sidewalks.
(Ord. No. 2017-23, § 1, 4-4-17)
Secs. 82-72—82-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DISPOSSESSORIES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2003-165, § 1, adopted Dec. 16, 2003, amended art. V in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, said article pertained to similar subject matter. See the Code Comparative Table for a detailed analysis of inclusion.

Sec. 82-91. - Intent of the article.
The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 44-7-55(c) permits the placement of the personal property of the dispossessed tenant or dispossessed mortgagor on some portion of the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding's property or on other property as may be designated by the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding and as may be approved by the executing officer. It is the intent of the article to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and welfare of the public in Clayton County; furthermore, it is the intent of the article that the county's right-of-way shall not be among those locations which may be approved by the executing officer of the writ of possession. Therefor, to further and to implement this intent, it is provided that the personal property of dispossessed tenants or dispossessed mortgagors will not be placed on the county's right-of-way, but rather on the property of the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding of the dispossessed tenant's or mortgagor's premises, and that such personal property will be removed within a reasonable period of time or a citation will issue against the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding for violation of the County's Code.
(Ord. No. 2003-165, § 1, 12-16-03; Ord. No. 2004-112, § 1, 7-20-04)
Sec. 82-92. - Statement of acknowledgment of notice and waiver of additional notice of possible issuance of citation for violation of Clayton County Code against plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding, if personal property of the dispossessed tenant or dispossessed mortgagor is not removed from the property within 24 hours of the execution of the writ.
Upon the receipt of a writ of possession issued by the court, the plaintiff in the writ of possession proceeding concerning the subject real property against which the writ of possession applies may require the sheriff to assist in its execution. In addition to placing the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding in possession of the premises, the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding may require assistance with regard to the removal of the personal property of the dispossessed tenant or dispossessed mortgagor from the premises to some portion of the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding's property. If execution of the writ is desired, or if assistance of the sheriff is required with regard to the removal of the personal property of the dispossessed tenant or dispossessed mortgagor, the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding shall execute a statement, in such form as provided by the clerk of court, and tender said statement to the sheriff with the writ of possession. Said statement shall be executed by plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding, or by either plaintiff's attorney or plaintiff's authorized agent on plaintiff's behalf, as an acknowledgment of notice and waiver of additional notice that a citation for violation of the County's Code may issue against the plaintiff, if the personal property of the dispossessed tenant or dispossessed mortgagor is not removed from the plaintiff's property within 24 hours of the date and time of the execution of the writ of possession, and if the property otherwise is in violation of the County Code. Service of the actual citation shall be as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 2003-165, § 1, 12-16-03; Ord. No. 2004-112, § 1, 7-20-04)
Sec. 82-93. - Failure to remove timely the personal property of the dispossessed tenant or dispossessed mortgagor may result in citation.
In the event that the personal property of the dispossessed tenant or dispossessed mortgagor remains on the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding's property for a period in excess of 24 hours from the date and time of the execution of the writ of possession, and in the event that the property otherwise is in violation of any provision of the County's Code, a citation for violation of the County's Code may issue against the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding.
(Ord. No. 2003-165, § 1, 12-16-03; Ord. No. 2004-112, § 1, 7-20-04)
Sec. 82-94. - Additional remedies.
Nothing contained in the article shall abrogate the right of a dispossessed tenant or dispossessed mortgagor to remove his or her personal property from the premises or the plaintiff in a writ of possession proceeding's right to remove such personal property and thereafter proceed against the dispossessed tenant or dispossessed mortgagor for the recovery of expenses incurred therefor.
(Ord. No. 2003-165, § 1, 12-16-03; Ord. No. 2004-112, § 1, 7-20-04)
