ARTICLE IV. - VACCINATION AND LICENSING

Sec. 14-81. - Rabies vaccination required.
No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat within the county unless such dog or cat is vaccinated against rabies.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-30; Ord. No. 2010-172, § 1, 8-17-10)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-172, § 1, adopted Aug. 17, 2010, changed the title of § 14-81 from required generally to rabies vaccination required.
Sec. 14-82. - Rabies vaccination.
(a)
All dogs and cats over four months of age within the county shall be vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian, who will issue to the owner a durable metal tag and a certificate of vaccination approved by the county's animal control unit.
(b)
A rabies vaccination tag approved by the county's animal control unit must be attached to the collar or harness of all dogs and cats harbored within the county and be worn at all times. Tags are not transferable from one dog or cat to another dog or cat. For the purpose of this chapter, a dog or cat is harbored in the county if it is fed and or sheltered for three or more consecutive days within the county.
(c)
A dog or cat less than four months of age shall not be required to be vaccinated as is otherwise required by subsection (a) of this section, but such dog or cat must be confined to its owner's premises until it has been vaccinated.
(d)
It shall be the duty of all persons owning or having charge of any dog or cat brought into the county from outside the county to have the dog or cat vaccinated and to obtain a vaccination certificate and metal tag within 14 days from the date of entry; however, when the owner or person having charge of such a dog or cat produces evidence satisfactory to the county's dog control officer that the dog has been vaccinated by a person duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine, the dog or cat shall not be required to be vaccinated again until the most recent vaccination expires.
(e)
All animals required to be vaccinated under this section shall be vaccinated only by a licensed veterinarian using rabies vaccine approved by the applicable state agencies. An owner or person having charge of such dog or cat may request a three-year vaccination be administered. In the judgment of the veterinarian, the animal may be vaccinated with a one-year or three-year vaccine. The rabies vaccination certificate issued by the veterinarian must state the expiration of the vaccination period. The rabies tag issued or approved by the animal control unit will reflect the expiration year certified by the veterinarian but in no case shall this be more than three years from the date of vaccination.
(f)
The animal control unit may adopt such other rabies control regulations as it deems necessary for the protection of the public health and safety.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-31; Ord. No. 2010-172, § 2, 8-17-10)
Sec. 14-83. - Vaccination procedure generally.
Any licensed veterinarian shall be entitled, in connection with his practice and on the request of any dog or cat owner, to vaccinate the dog or cat against rabies. At the time of the vaccination, a metal tag, approved by the state department of human resources, bearing the official serial number shall be provided by the veterinarian to be attached to a suitable collar or harness provided by the owner of the dog or cat. The veterinarian shall furnish at the same time to the dog or cat owner a certificate certifying the vaccination of the dog or cat, furnishing one copy to the animal control unit and one copy to be kept by the veterinarian for his files.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-32)
Sec. 14-84. - Vaccination clinics.
The county department of health may conduct clinics for the vaccination of dogs and cats against rabies, when an epidemic of rabies has been declared by the state department of epidemiology. A notice of the place and time thereof shall be given through daily and weekly newspapers of the county. In addition to the place and time, the notice shall state:
All dogs and cats not previously vaccinated during the year will, if brought to the vaccination clinics, be vaccinated against rabies and a suitably numbered tag and certificate furnished, at a cost of $6.00 per dog or cat, the tag to be attached to the dog's or cat's collar or harness and a certificate given the owner or custodian of the dog or cat. Any owner or custodian of any dog or cat not previously vaccinated by an authorized veterinarian who does not bring his/her dog or cat to be vaccinated against rabies at the clinic held for such purpose shall be subject to have the animal impounded and to be prosecuted for violation of law.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-33)
Sec. 14-85. - Prohibited vaccinations.
No person shall vaccinate any dog against rabies except with vaccine as provided in this article.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-34)
Sec. 14-86. - Health regulations incorporated.
All rules and regulations of the county board of health and the state department of human resources presently existing or as adopted in the future pertaining to rabies control and vaccination are incorporated in this article by reference as though fully set forth herein.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-35)
Sec. 14-87. - Misuse of tag.
It shall be unlawful for any person to attach a vaccination or license tag to any dog or cat for which it is not issued, or to remove a vaccination or license tag or collar from any dog or cat without the consent of its owner or custodian.
(Code 1973, § 2-5-37)
Sec. 14-88. - Certificates of inoculation; tags.
The county animal control unit shall prepare and distribute to all county veterinarians and any other requesting veterinarians outside the county, at cost, forms to be used to certify vaccination of all dogs and cats. The county animal control unit shall secure and distribute to all county veterinarians and any other requesting veterinarians outside the county, at cost, tags to be attached to the collar or harness of all dogs and cats. All tags distributed shall be sequentially numbered and shall contain the name of the county.
(Ord. No. 92-64, § I, 7-21-92; Ord. No. 2010-172, § 3, 8-17-10)
Sec. 14-89. - Rabies vaccination required for reclaim of an animal.
An owner reclaiming an animal four months of age or older from the animal control shelter shall present proof of a current rabies vaccination at time of reclaim. If proof is unavailable, a summons shall be issued for violation of this section. If the defendant at arraignment or trial produces the required proof of rabies vaccination the court in its discretion may dismiss the case, otherwise a violation of this section shall be punished as a misdemeanor pursuant to section 1-12 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2010-172, § 4, 8-17-10)
Secs. 14-90—14-110. - Reserved.
