Chapter 30 - COURTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Related laws reference—Courts, art. V.

Sec. 30-1. - Juvenile court established.
There is hereby established a juvenile court for the county.
(Code 1973, § 2-9-2)
Sec. 30-2. - Compensation of judges emeritus of judicial circuit.
(a)
From and after October 28, 1970, judges emeritus of the Clayton Judicial Circuit, upon being requested by the appropriate authorities to serve in the Clayton Judicial Circuit and accepting this responsibility shall be paid a sum of $150.00 per day for each day of service in the Clayton Judicial Circuit.
(b)
The payment provided for in subsection (a) of this section shall be the total sum authorized for payment and shall include all other expenses which the judge serving would be eligible for, including mileage.
(c)
It shall only be necessary that a judge emeritus sign a certificate setting forth the dates of service in the Clayton Judicial Circuit under this section in order to be paid.
(Code 1973, § 2-9-3)
Sec. 30-3. - Courthouse security.
(a)
The county sheriff or other entity authorized to provide security for the courthouse, its annexes or other county facilities shall implement rules and regulations established by or approved by the Clayton County Board of Commissioners.
(b)
All persons, except for authorized county employees or courthouse personnel, shall enter and exit the courthouse and its annexes or other county facilities only through the security ingress/egress doorways specifically designated for such purposes. Any person violating the provisions of this section may be cited by authorized sheriff or police department personnel and, if convicted, shall be punished in accordance with section 1-12 of the County Code.
(Ord. No. 95-18, § I, 2-21-95; Ord. No. 2005-142, § 1, 10-18-05)
Sec. 30-4. - Supplemental compensation for state court judges; level of compensation for juvenile court judges; cessation of participation in retirement system.
(a)
The board of commissioners hereby establishes the level of supplemental compensation for judges of the state court of the county as follows: On the first day of July after taking office, the supplemental compensation shall be such an amount so as to render the total compensation for the judges equal to a multiplier of 89 percent times the total compensation (base salary and supplement) of judges of the superior court of the county. On the first day of July in subsequent years of service, the judges' total compensation shall rise by an annual one-percent increase in the above-described multiplier to a maximum proportion of 95 percent.
(b)
The supplemental compensation for state court judges, as contemplated herein, is deemed to be per annum and shall be paid out of the general funds of the county.
(c)
In the event the base salary for state court judges is established by general or local Georgia law, and such salary exceeds the total compensation for judges as provided herein, the base salary as established by general or local Georgia law shall control. Any supplemental compensation, as heretofore provided, shall thereafter be adjusted or eliminated, as the case may be, to meet the level of compensation as established herein or the base salary as established by general or local Georgia law, whichever amount is greater.
(d)
The board of commissioners hereby approves the level of compensation for judges of the juvenile court of the county consistent with the total level of compensation for judges of the state court of the county as heretofore provided herein.
(e)
In consideration for payment of the supplemental compensation as contemplated herein, state court judges currently participating in the county public employee retirement system ("pension plan") shall cease such participation, effective July 1, 1996. Such participating judges shall be fully vested in the pension plan with appropriate tenure through July 1, 1996, and such judges shall hereafter be entitled to receive all accrued benefits, upon retirement, afforded under current provisions of the pension plan.
(Res. No. 96-95, §§ 1—5, 8-20-96)
Related laws reference—Judges' salaries, § 5-24.
