Chapter 90 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverage taxes, § 6-186 et seq.
Related laws reference—Taxation, art. VIII.
State Law reference— Business and occupational license taxes and fees, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-22; county taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-220.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 90-1. - Excise tax on motor vehicle rental charges.
(a)
The board of commissioners hereby authorizes the levy and collection of an excise tax upon the rental charge collected by a rental motor vehicle concern when such charge constitutes a taxable event for purposes of sales and use tax under O.C.G.A., [tit. 48,] ch. 8, art. 1. The tax levied pursuant to this section shall be levied and collected at the rate of three percent of the rental charges. The tax levied pursuant to this section shall be imposed only at the time when and place where a customer pays sales tax with respect to the rental charge. The customer who pays a rental charge that is subject to this tax levied shall be liable for the tax. The tax shall be paid by the customer to the rental motor vehicle concern. The tax shall be a debt of the customer to the rental motor vehicle concern until it is paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as authorized for the recovery of other debts. The rental motor vehicle concern collecting the tax shall remit the tax to the county board of commissioners, and the tax remitted shall be a credit against the tax imposed on the rental motor vehicle concern. Every rental motor vehicle concern subject to this tax levied shall be liable for the tax at the applicable rate on the charges actually collected or the amount of taxes collected from the customers, whichever is greater.
(b)
The board of commissioners hereby declares that the proceeds of the tax are to be expended and shall apply in each fiscal year during which the tax is collected for capital outlay projects pertaining to the construction of the county's parks and recreational facilities, and maintenance and operation expenses associated with such recreational facilities.
(c)
The tax levied pursuant to this section shall commence on the first day of June, 1996, and shall terminate not later than December 31, 2038.
(Ord. No. 96-57, § 1, 5-21-96)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 96-57, adopted May 21, 1996, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, codification of § 1 of said ordinance as § 90-1 was at the discretion of the editor.
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22; parks and recreation, ch. 66; traffic and vehicles, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Authority of counties and municipalities to levy excise taxes for purpose of promoting industry, trade, commerce and tourism, and for provision of convention, sports and recreational facilities, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-90.
Secs. 90-2—90-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXEMPTIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 90-26—90-35. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MANUFACTURED GOODS

Sec. 90-36. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Finished goods means goods, wares, and merchandise of every character and kind, but shall not include unrecovered, unextracted or unsevered natural resources, or raw materials, or goods in the process of manufacture or production, or the stock-in-trade of a retailer.
Raw materials means any materials, whether crude or processed, that can be converted by manufacture, processing, or combination thereof, into a new and useful product, but shall not include unrecovered, unextracted or unsevered natural resources.
(Code 1973, § 2-24½-17(a))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 90-37. - Amount; effective date, duration; requirements.
Upon proper request by the taxpayers at or before the time of making their tax returns for the year 1987, on certain tangible personal properties, the taxpayers will be exempt from ad valorem taxes on 100 percent of all the value of such tangible personal properties as it relates to ad valorem taxes for educational purposes and state and county purposes. This exemption shall become effective beginning January 1, 1987, and each succeeding year pending further action by the board of commissioners, provided the above procedure requesting exemption is followed annually. Those properties are as follows:
(1)
Inventory of goods in the process of manufacture or production, which shall include all partly finished goods and raw materials held for direct use or consumption in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business in the state. The exemption provided for in this subsection shall apply only to tangible personal property which is substantially modified, altered or changed in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing, processing or production operations in this state.
(2)
Inventory of finished goods manufactured or produced within the state in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business, when held by the original manufacturer or producer of such finished goods. The exemption provided for in this subsection shall be for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date such property is produced or manufactured.
(3)
Inventory of finished goods which, on January 1, are stored in a warehouse, dock or wharf, whether public or private, and which are destined for shipment to a final destination outside the state and inventory of finished goods which are shipped into the state from outside this state and stored for transshipment to a final destination outside this state. The exemption provided for in this subsection shall be for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date such property is stored in this state. All property that is claimed to be exempt under the provisions of this paragraph shall be designated as being "in transit" upon the official books and records of the warehouse, dock or wharf, whether public or private, where such property is being stored. Such official books and records shall contain a full, true and accurate inventory of all such property, including the date of the receipt of the property, the date of the withdrawal of the property, the point of origin of the property, and the point of final destination of the same, if known. The official books and records of any such warehouse, dock or wharf, whether public or private, pertaining to any such "in transit" property shall be at all times open to the inspection of all taxing authorities of this state and of any political subdivision of this state.
(Code 1973, § 2-24½-17(b))
Sec. 90-38. - Administration.
The tax assessor's office shall provide the necessary administrative action, materials and personnel in order to effect an orderly administration of this tax exemption according to the laws of the state, and shall provide the necessary forms, formats, and other related materials for the taxpayers in making their claims for such exemption. The tax commissioner's office shall take notice of the results of the September 27, 1979, election approving this tax exemption, of the resolution from which this section is derived, and of the actions of the tax assessor's office, in carrying out the administrative functions of its office.
(Code 1973, § 2-24½-17(c))
Secs. 90-39—90-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HOTEL, MOTEL, LODGING EXCISE TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22.

Sec. 90-61. - Assessment.
(a)
There is hereby assessed and levied an excise tax upon the furnishing for value to the public of any room or rooms, lodging or accommodations furnished by any person or legal entity licensed by, or required to pay business or occupation taxes to the county for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly or periodically furnished for value. The tax shall be eight percent of the charge to the public for such rooms, lodgings or accommodations.
(b)
This tax shall not apply to:
(1)
Charges made for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided as to any persons who certify in writing that they are staying in such room, lodging, or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty;
(2)
The use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided without charge;
(3)
Any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by the state or local officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations with a state or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by the state or local government official travelling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided by this paragraph. For purpose of the exemption provided under this paragraph, a local government official or employee shall include officials or employees of counties, municipalities, consolidated governments, or county and independent school districts;
(4)
Charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy; and
(5)
Such other charges as may be made exempt by any act of the state legislature, as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(h), as it may be amended from time to time.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-119; Ord. No. 01-43, § 1, 4-17-01; Ord. No. 2009-159, § 1, 10-6-09)
Sec. 90-62. - Owner-operator to collect taxes.
The owner or operator of the lodging facility shall collect the excise taxes as set forth in this article and shall remit the same to the county as hereinafter provided. Any owner or operator who shall neglect, fail or refuse to collect the tax provided in this article shall be liable for and pay the tax personally.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-120)
Sec. 90-63. - Returns and payment of taxes.
The owner or operator liable for the taxes set out in this article shall on or before the 20th day of each month, for the preceding calendar month, transmit to the director of permits and licenses a statement showing the gross sales and gross taxes collected by authority of this article. Along with such statement, the owner or operator shall submit payment to the director of community development for the net taxes due.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-121)
Sec. 90-64. - Compensation for collecting tax.
For the purpose of compensating the owner or operator for collecting, accounting for and remitting the tax levied by the article, such owner or operator shall be allowed three percent of the amount of the tax due and accounted for and remitted to the county in the form of a deduction when submitting the report and paying the amount due.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-122)
Sec. 90-65. - Penalty for failure to make return for payment.
When any owner or operator fails to make a return or pay the tax amount due under this chapter, there shall be imposed a penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of ten percent of the full tax due. Additionally, the owner or operator shall pay interest on any unpaid tax due an amount equal to one percent for each month or any partial month that such tax remains due and unpaid.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-123; Ord. No. 01-43, § 2, 4-17-01)
Sec. 90-66. - Records, inspection.
In order to aid in the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and to collect all of the tax imposed, all owners or operators are hereby required to keep a record of all sales and charges for rooms or lodging and the taxes collected. Such records shall be open for inspection by any duly authorized agent of the county at all reasonable hours during the day.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-124)
Sec. 90-67. - Duties of permits and license department.
(a)
Review of returns. The department of community development shall review all returns made in compliance with this article. All owners or operators of a lodging facility shall furnish, upon request, all data, information and records necessary for the review of such returns.
(b)
Prescription of forms. The department of community development shall also have authority to prescribe such forms as it deems necessary for the proper administration of this article.
(Code 1973, § 2-16-125)
Sec. 90-68. - Proceeds of the tax.
The proceeds of this tax shall be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3.4).
(Ord. No. 2005-41, §§ 1, 2, 4-19-05)
