ARTICLE III. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Code reference—Boards, commissions and authorities, § 2-56 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - CLAYTON COUNTY COMMISSION ON CHILDREN AND YOUTH

Sec. 3-1. - Findings, intent of Act.
The General Assembly finds that appropriate services to children and youth are vitally important and that a commission on children and youth on a local level, and particularly the establishment in Clayton County of a commission on children and youth, recognizes the importance of this service. The intent of this Act is to provide for the effective coordination and communication between the providers of children and youth services in Clayton County, including pediatrics, health, mental health, business, and industry, and all components of the social service delivery system, education, employment, and juvenile justice and community efforts tangent thereto.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4891, § 1)
Sec. 3-2. - Established; members; organization.
(a)
There is established the "Clayton County Commission on Children and Youth" which shall be composed of the following members:
(1)
Ten voting members selected by the concerted action of the director of the Clayton County department of family and children services, the chairman of the Clayton County board of commissioners and the judge of the juvenile court of Clayton County. Voting members shall consist of individuals who are business and community leaders and who by their interest, training, or experience are knowledgeable of the issues affecting children and youth; individuals who are in the field of education; individuals who are part of local government, including law enforcement officials; and individuals who by their training and experience are knowledgeable in pediatrics, health, mental health, or social services. Voting members shall have the authority to vote on all issues before the commission; and voting members shall serve at the pleasure of their selectors. In selection and discharge of the voting members, the votes of two members of the selection and discharge group shall control.
(2)
Ten ex officio members. Ex officio members shall consist of a member of the Clayton County legislative delegation, the sheriff of Clayton County, the chairman of the Clayton County board of commissioners, the Clayton County director of police services, the Clayton County juvenile court judge, the Clayton County superintendent of schools, a physician appointed by the director of public health, the director of the department of family and children services, the director of mental health, and a clergyman selected by vote of the designated ex officio members. Ex officio members shall not have the authority to vote on the administration of grants or grant requests or other such issues prohibited by law or as set forth in the commission's bylaws.
(b)
All appointments to the commission shall become effective on the first day of the month following the month in which this Act becomes law. In the event of death, resignation, disqualification, or removal for any reason of any member of the commission, the vacancy shall be filled prior to the next regular meeting in the same manner as the original appointment and the successor shall serve for the unexpired term.
(c)
Membership on the commission does not constitute public office and no member shall be disqualified from holding public office by reason of his membership on the commission.
(d)
Members of the commission shall serve without compensation, except that each member may be reimbursed out of the funds of the commission as funds are available for expenses incurred as a result of his duties as a commission member in accordance with the State of Georgia mileage reimbursement allowance.
(e)
The commission shall elect a chairman and such other officers from among their number and make such bylaws for its operation as may be necessary or appropriate.
(f)
The commission may establish advisory committees. All members of the advisory committee shall be knowledgeable about children and youth issues.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4891, § 2; Ga. Laws 1990, p. 4200, § 1)
Sec. 3-3. - Authority of chairman.
(a)
The chairman of the commission may contract with other agencies, public or private, or persons as the chairman deems necessary for the rendering and affording of such services, facilities, studies, research, and reports to the commission as will best assist it to carry out its duties and responsibilities.
(b)
The chairman may employ such other professional, technical, and clerical personnel as deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act, given funds available.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4891, § 3)
Sec. 3-4. - Powers, duties.
The commission is vested with the following functions and authorities:
(1)
To cooperate with and seek cooperation from every department, agency, or instrumentality in furtherance of the purposes of this Act;
(2)
To convene periodically, but at least three times a year, at a place and time designated by the chairman of the commission;
(3)
To develop, in coordination and cooperation with all components of the various children and youth systems of this state, and agencies of Clayton County, public or private, legislative proposals and executive policy proposals to better meet the needs of children and youth and improve the quality of services available to them;
(4)
To review and develop an integrated county plan for services provided to children and youth through whatever available federal, state, and local programs;
(5)
To provide technical assistance and consultation to members of the commission and officers of Clayton County government, particularly those involved in providing services to children and youth;
(6)
To review existing statutes, administrative rules, regulations, ordinances, and policies of those agencies having a member on the commission relating to children and youth and make recommendations which will encourage greater interagency coordination and cooperation, for effective utilization of existing resources, and less duplication of efforts;
(7)
To facilitate the elimination of unnecessary duplicative efforts, programs, and services;
(8)
To administer assistance funds for the purposes mentioned herein or as assigned by law or executive order; and
(9)
Notwithstanding any provision in this Act to the contrary, the commission shall not exercise any power, undertake any duty, or perform any function otherwise assigned by law.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4891, § 4)
Sec. 3-5. - Acceptance of gifts, grants, etc.; soliciting funds; reports.
(a)
The commission is authorized to accept and use property, both real and personal, and services for the purpose of carrying out this Act. The commission is authorized to accept and use gifts, grants, and donations for the purpose of carrying out this Act. Any funds, property, or services received by gifts, grants, or donations shall be kept separate and apart from any funds received from any governmental agency, and such funds, property, or services so received by gifts, grants, or donations shall be the property and the funds of the commission and, as such, shall not lapse at the end of each fiscal year but shall remain under the control of and subject to the direction of the commission to carry out the provisions of this Act.
(b)
The commission may solicit funds from the federal government, state government, county government and municipalities, and any public funds donated by government are authorized, provided that the commission accounts for the spending of such funds on an annual basis.
(c)
The commission shall make an annual report on September 1 of each year of its findings and recommendations to the members of the Clayton County legislative delegation, the board of commissioners of Clayton County, and the judicial officers of Clayton County.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4891, § 5; Ga. Laws 1993, p. 4312, § 1)
Sec. 3-6. - Sundown provision.
The commission shall stand abolished on July 1, 1996.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4891, § 7; Ga. Laws 1990, p. 4200, § 2; Ga. Laws 1993, p. 4312, § 2)
Secs. 3-7—3-20. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CLAYTON COUNTY TOURISM AUTHORITY

Sec. 3-21. - Declaration of need.
It is declared that there exists in Clayton County, Georgia, a need for an authority to function without profit in developing and promoting tourism for the public good in this state and for the cultural growth, public welfare, education, and recreation of the people of Clayton County and of this state.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 1)
Sec. 3-22. - Creation of authority.
There is created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the Clayton County tourism authority, which shall be deemed a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 2)
Sec. 3-23. - Purpose.
The purpose of the authority and any funds realized by said authority shall be expended for the development and promotion in Clayton County and in this state of public projects for the cultural growth, public welfare, education, and recreation of the people of Clayton County and of this state, including the acquisition and construction of a building or buildings and related facilities, which shall be declared to be public buildings, to be used for amusement, recreational, civic, cultural, or educational purposes or a combination thereof, including fairs, expositions, exhibitions, conventions, public meetings or gatherings, concerts, theater; and for such other activities as are designed and intended to promote tourism; and for the purchase of lands, easements, rights in land, and franchises for the construction of such facility or facilities and for use in connection therewith.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 3)
Sec. 3-24. - Members.
(a)
The authority shall consist of seven members, one of whom shall be the current chairman of the Clayton County board of commissioners, or his designee, and six of whom shall be appointed by the Clayton County board of commissioners. The initial members shall be appointed for the following terms:
Chairman of the board of commissioners, or his designee, for a term to coincide with the chairman's term of office;
Two members for a one-year term;
Two members for a three-year term;
Two members for a four-year term.
Thereafter, all appointments shall be for terms of four years, except that the appointment of any person selected to fill any unexpired term at any time shall be only for the remainder of such term. Upon the initial appointment, the board of commissioners shall request one recommendation from the Clayton County municipal association and one recommendation from the Historical Jonesboro/Clayton County, Inc. Upon the expiration of the term of any member appointed pursuant to such recommendation, the board of commissioners shall request a recommendation for a successor from the original recommending body. Each member shall hold office until his successor has been appointed and qualified and shall be eligible to succeed himself.
(b)
The members of the authority shall organize and enter upon the performance of their duties immediately after the effective date of this Act. The authority shall elect one of its members as chairman and one as vice chairman and shall elect a secretary and a treasurer, or a secretary-treasurer, who may but need not necessarily hold membership on the authority. Such officers shall serve for such terms as shall be prescribed by the rules of the authority or until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
Four members of the authority shall constitute a quorum, and no vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority at every meeting, but in every instance the affirmative vote of at least four members of the authority shall be required to authorize any legal act of the authority, including all things necessary to authorize and issue revenue bonds.
(d)
The members of the authority shall not be entitled to compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed by the authority for their actual expenses properly incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government and may employ professional and technical supervisors, assistants, and experts and any other agents and employees, temporary or permanent, as it may require. The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees, and the authority shall keep suitable books and records of all its obligations, contracts, transactions, and undertakings and of all income and receipts of every nature and of all expenditures of every kind.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 4)
Sec. 3-25. - Public property.
It is found, determined, and declared that the creation of the authority and the carrying out of its corporate purposes is in all respects for the benefit of the people of Clayton County and of this state, and that the authority is an institution of purely public charity, and all property of said authority is declared and shall in all respects be considered to be public property and title to such property shall be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public, and the use of such property pursuant to the terms of this Act shall be and is declared to be for public and governmental purposes. The authority is granted the same exemptions and exclusions from taxes as are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of public facilities.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 5)
Sec. 3-26. - Powers.
The authority shall have all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this Act, including, but not limited to, the following powers:
(1)
To adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(2)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises and personal property necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes and to use, lease, and dispose of real and personal property in any manner it deems to be to the best advantage of the authority and the purposes thereof. Title to such property, however, shall be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public;
(3)
To accept, receive, and administer gifts, grants, loans, appropriations, and donations of money, materials, and property of any kind, including loans and grants from the United States or the State of Georgia or any agency, department, authority, or instrumentality of either upon such terms and conditions as the United States, the State of Georgia, or such agency, department, authority, or instrumentality shall impose, and to administer trusts, and to sell, lease, transfer, convey, appropriate, pledge, mortgage, or encumber all of its property and assets;
(4)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue revenue bonds payable from the earnings of the projects of the authority; to execute trust agreements or indentures; and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, encumber, and assign any and all of its funds, assets, property, and income as security for the payment of such revenue bonds and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the owners thereof; and to provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default either in payment of principal or of conditions pursuant to which such obligations were issued;
(5)
To contract with the State of Georgia and the agencies, instrumentalities, departments, and political subdivisions thereof and with private persons and corporations in such manner as the legitimate and necessary purposes of this Act shall authorize or require including contracts for construction and leasing, as lessor or as lessee, of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired;
(6)
To construct, reconstruct, acquire, equip, own, alter, repair, maintain, add to, extend, improve, operate, and manage public projects, including the erection, in Clayton County, Georgia, of a building or buildings, which shall be and are declared to be public buildings, to be used for amusement, recreational, civic, cultural, or educational purposes or a combination thereof, including fairs, expositions, concerts, theater, and such other activities as are designed and intended to promote tourism; and to purchase lands, easements, right in lands, and franchises for the construction of such facility or facilities and for use in connection therewith, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of the sale of revenue bonds of the authority, and the title to such property to be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public;
(7)
To issue revenue bonds as authorized, defined, and provided for in this Act and in O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq. known as the "Revenue Bond Law," in order to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipment, addition to, or extension of any such project; which bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to the principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest;
(8)
To issue revenue bonds to call, refund, or refinance in whole or in part all outstanding revenue bonds secured by the anticipated revenue of such project and to include in the amount of such refunding bonds all interest and any call premium that may be required for the redemption and refunding of such outstanding bonds;
(9)
To do any and all things necessary or proper for the accomplishment of the objectives of this Act and any amendments hereto and to exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state;
(10)
To invest any accumulation of its funds and any sinking fund or reserves in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or its political subdivisions may be invested and to purchase its own bonds at a price of not more than the call price thereof and accrued interest, but bonds so purchased shall be canceled and shall not be reissued.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 6)
Sec. 3-27. - Powers under revenue bond law.
In addition to the foregoing powers and subject to any limitations herein contained, the authority shall have all the powers of municipalities under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law and shall have the power to expend such sums as may be necessary for the survey, study, financing, construction, and completion of any such project and the placing of the same in operation.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 7)
Sec. 3-28. - Credit of state not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under provisions of this Act shall not constitute a debt or a pledge of the faith and credit of Clayton County, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the rentals, revenues, and funds of the authority as provided in the resolutions or trust agreements or indentures authorizing or securing the issuance and payment of such bonds, and the issuance of such bonds shall not obligate the county to levy or pledge any form of taxation whatsoever for the payment thereof or to make any appropriation for their payment, and such bonds shall contain on their face a recital setting forth substantially the foregoing provisions of this Act.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 8)
Sec. 3-29. - Legal investments.
The bonds herein authorized are made securities in which all public officers and bodies of this state and all political subdivisions, all insurance companies and associations and other persons carrying on an insurance business, all banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks and savings associations, including savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, investment companies and other persons carrying on a banking business, all administrators, guardians, executors, trustees and other fiduciaries, and all other persons whatsoever who are now or may hereafter be authorized to invest in bonds or other obligations of the state may properly and legally invest funds, including capital, in their control or belonging to them. The bonds are also made securities which may be deposited with and shall be received by all public officers and bodies of this state and all political subdivisions thereof for any purpose for which the deposit of the bonds or other obligations of this state is now or may hereafter be authorized.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 9)
Sec. 3-30. - Contracts for use of projects.
The authority may contract with any political subdivision or political subdivisions of this state for the payment of rents, fees, and charges for the use by the political subdivisions or the residents thereof of the project or projects and facilities of the authority or by the authority for the use of any public property of the political subdivision. The rentals contracted to be paid by the lessees or tenants to the authority under the contract entered into pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall constitute general obligations of the political subdivision, and the full faith and credit of the political subdivision may be pledged to provide the funds required to fulfill all obligations arising under any such contract. Any political subdivision which shall have entered into a contract pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall annually in each and every fiscal year during the term of the contract include in the general revenue or appropriation measure sums sufficient to satisfy the payments required to be made in each year by such contract until all payments required under such contract have been paid in full. In the event that for any reason any such provision or appropriation is not made, then the fiscal officers of such political subdivision are authorized and directed to set up as an appropriation on their accounts in each fiscal year the amounts required to pay the obligations of such contract as authorized and required, which amounts shall be due and payable and shall be expended for the purpose of paying and meeting the obligations provided under the terms and conditions of such contract, and such appropriation shall have the same legal status as if the contracting political subdivision had included the amount of the appropriation in its general revenue or appropriation measure. The fiscal officers of the political subdivision shall make such payment to the authority if for any reason such appropriation is not otherwise made, and any such political subdivision may obligate itself and its successors to use only such structure, building, or facilities constituting such project and none other.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 10)
Sec. 3-31. - Revenue bonds.
The authority shall have power and is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any one or a combination of its projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable from and may be secured by a pledge of rents, fees, charges, and other revenues of, and by the mortgage of, all or any part of the project or projects financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of such bonds or with the proceeds of bonds called and refunded or to be called and refunded by such issue. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall mature, and shall be payable as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority within the terms of the Revenue Bond Law, except as to any limitation as to interest which may be contained therein, and the bonds may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be deposited as may be directed in the resolution or trust instrument providing for the issuance of such bonds.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 11)
Sec. 3-32. - Rental revenue.
(a)
For the purpose of earning sufficient revenue to make possible the financing of the construction of the project or projects of the authority with revenue bonds, the cost of which shall include all elements of cost authorized by said Revenue Bond Law, the authority is authorized and empowered to fix, revise, and collect rents, fees, and charges on each project which it shall cause to be acquired or constructed. Such rentals, fees, or charges to be paid for the use of such project or projects shall be so fixed and adjusted as to provide a fund sufficient with other revenue, if any, of such project or projects or of said authority:
(1)
To pay the cost of operating, maintaining, and repairing the project or projects, including reserves for insurance and extraordinary repairs and other reserves required by the resolution or trust agreement or indenture pertaining to such bonds and the issuance thereof, unless such cost shall be otherwise provided for;
(2)
To pay the principal and interest on such revenue bonds as the same shall become due, including premiums, if any, the proceeds of which shall have been or will be used to pay the cost of such project or projects, including all elements of cost authorized by said Revenue Bond Law;
(3)
To comply with any sinking fund requirements contained in the resolution or trust agreement or indenture pertaining to the issuance of and security for such bonds;
(4)
To perform fully all provisions of such resolution or trust agreement or indenture relating to the issuance of or security for such bonds to the payment of which such rental is pledged;
(5)
To accumulate any excess income which may be required by the purchasers of such bonds or which may be dictated by the requirements of such resolution or trust agreement or indenture or by the need to achieve ready marketability of and low interest rates on such bonds; and
(6)
To pay any expenses in connection with such bond issue or such project or projects including but not limited to trustees, counsel, and fiscal fees.
(b)
The rentals shall be payable at such intervals as may be agreed upon and set forth in the rental contract or lease providing therefor and any such contract or lease may provide for the commencement of rental payments to the authority prior to the completion of the undertaking by the authority of any such project, and the rental contract may provide for the payment of rental charges during such times as the project or projects may be partially or wholly untenantable.
(c)
The rental contract or lease may obligate the tenants or lessees to operate, maintain, and keep in good repair, including complete reconstruction, if necessary, the rented or leased premises and projects, regardless of the cause of the necessity of such maintenance, repair, or reconstruction.
(d)
Such rental contract or lease may obligate the tenants or lessees to indemnity and save harmless the authority from any and all damage to persons and property occurring on or by reason of the leased property or improvements thereon and to undertake, at the expense of the tenants or lessees, the defense of any action brought against the authority by reason of injury or damages to persons or property occurring on or by reason of the leased premises.
(e)
In the event of any failure or refusal on the part of the tenants or lessees to perform punctually any covenant or obligation contained in any such rental contract or lease, the authority may enforce performance by any legal or equitable process against the tenants or lessees, and consent may be given for the institution of any such action.
(f)
The authority shall be permitted to assign any rental payments due or to become due to the authority, pursuant to any such rental contract or lease, to a trustee or paying agent as may be required by the terms of the resolution or trust agreement or indenture relating to the issuance of and security for such bonds.
(g)
The use and disposition of the authority's revenue shall be subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or of the trust agreement or indenture, if any, securing the same.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 12)
Sec. 3-33. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, rents, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects and any and all revenues, rents, and earnings received by the authority, regardless of whether or not such revenues, rents, and earnings were produced by a particular project for which bonds were issued, may be pledged by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as may be provided in any resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received may include funds received from one or more or all sources and may be set aside at regular intervals into a sinking fund for which provision may be made in any such resolution or trust instrument, which sinking fund may be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall become due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall mature;
(3)
The necessary charges of any trustee or paying agent or registrar for such bonds; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired upon call or purchase.
The use and disposition of any sinking fund may be subject to such regulations as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument securing the payment of the same. Except as may otherwise be provided in the resolution or trust instrument, the sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution or the trust instrument, any surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not be reissued, printed, and delivered.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 13)
Sec. 3-34. - Form of bonds.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the State of Georgia.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 14)
Sec. 3-35. - Trust agreement.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of revenue bonds may be secured by a trust agreement or indenture made by the authority with a corporate trustee which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company inside or outside the State of Georgia. Such trust agreement or indenture may pledge or assign rents, fees, charges, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority and any proceeds which may be derived from the disposition of any real or personal property of the authority or the proceeds of insurance carried thereon. The resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds and such trust agreement or indenture may contain provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bond owners, including the right of foreclosure of any mortgage or encumbrance and the right of appointment of a receiver upon default in the payment of any principal or interest obligation and the right of any receiver or trustee to enforce collection of any rents, fees, charges, or revenues for the use of the project necessary to pay all costs of operation and all reserves provided for, the principal of and interest on all bonds in the issue, all costs of collection, and all other costs reasonably necessary to accomplish the collection of such sums in the event of any default of the authority. Such resolution or trust agreement or indenture may include covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property for and construction of the project and to the custody, safeguarding, and application of all funds of the authority, including any proceeds derived from the disposition of any real or personal property of the authority or the proceeds of insurance carried thereon; and covenants providing for the operation, maintenance, repair, and insurance of the project may contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional bonds may be issued. Such resolution or trust agreement or indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bond owners and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of any bond owner as is customary in securing bonds and debentures of corporations and may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bond owners. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such trust.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 15)
Sec. 3-36. - Venue of actions; jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act brought in the courts of the State of Georgia, shall be brought in the superior court of Clayton County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of the bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such action.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 16)
Sec. 3-37. - Validation of bonds.
All bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in the superior court of Clayton County in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law. The petition for validation shall be brought against said authority and, in the event the payments to be made by any political subdivision under a contract entered into between the authority and such political subdivision are pledged as security for the payment of the bonds sought to be validated, such political subdivision shall also be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be adjudicated to be in all respects valid and binding upon such defendants. It shall be incumbent upon such defendants to defend against adjudication of the validity and binding effect of such contract or contracts or be forever bound thereby. Notice of such proceedings shall be included in the notice of validation hearing required to be issued and published by the clerk of the superior court of Clayton County, in which court such validation proceeding shall be initiated. Any citizen of the State of Georgia may intervene in the validation proceeding in accordance with the procedure prescribed in the Revenue Bond Law, and appeal from the judgment in said proceeding may be taken in accordance with the appellate procedure prescribed in said law. In the event no such appeal is filed within the time prescribed by law or, if filed, the judgment of the superior court of Clayton County so confirming and validating the validity and binding effect of such contract or contracts and of such bonds and the security therefor shall be forever conclusive.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 17)
Sec. 3-38. - Irrevocable contract.
The authority shall have perpetual existence, and, while any of the bonds issued by the authority shall remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished, impaired, or affected in any manner which will affect adversely the interests and rights of the owners of such bonds, and no other authority, instrumentality, or body will be created or empowered to compete with the authority so as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the owners of such bonds. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the state, the authority, and every owner of the authority's bonds and, upon and after the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act, shall constitute an irrevocable contract with the owners of such bonds.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 18)
Sec. 3-39. - Trust funds.
All funds received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds or as revenues, rents, fees, charges, or other earnings or as gifts, grants, or other contributions shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act, and bond owners entitled to receive the benefits of such funds shall have a lien on all such funds until applied as provided for in any such resolution, trust agreement, or indenture of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 19)
Sec. 3-40. - Construction.
This Act, being for the welfare of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 20)
Sec. 3-41. - Powers declared supplementary.
The provisions of this Act shall be regarded as supplementary and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as being in derogation of any powers now existing. The provisions of the Revenue Bond Law which are not in conflict herewith shall be applicable hereto and to the bonds issued hereunder and to any resolution or trust instrument adopted and entered into in order to provide for the payment of such bonds and the interest thereon. All bonds issued hereunder shall be signed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 50-17-1, relating to use of facsimile signatures on public securities.
(Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5070, § 21)
Secs. 3-42—3-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CLAYTON COUNTY WATER AUTHORITY

Sec. 3-61. - Waterworks system authorized.
The County of Clayton shall have the right, power and authority to operate, build and maintain a waterworks system, together with the right to acquire lands, construct waterworks facilities, including projects embracing sources of water supply and related facilities; to sell water and its related facilities to individuals, private concerns, governmental agencies and municipalities and counties of this state and to further authorize the said County of Clayton to accept franchises for that purpose granted by other municipalities and by counties of this state to said County of Clayton.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 1)
Sec. 3-62. - Installation authorized; revenue certificates.
The powers granted by this Act shall authorize the County of Clayton to lay or construct water mains and water distribution systems both within and without the limits of said county, and to issue water revenue-anticipation certificates for such purposes as may be authorized by law.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 2)
Sec. 3-63. - General authority over system.
The said County of Clayton shall have the right, power and authority to exercise police powers over the entire water system and shall have the right and authority to make rules and regulations governing the construction, operation, and maintenance, extension and connections with any water main within or without the limits of said county and shall have the right and authority to require all users of water who connect with the water mains to install proper meters and make connections in accordance with the rules and regulations provided therefor and shall have the right and authority to refuse to sell or furnish water to any person, firm, county, corporation or municipality who fails or refuses to comply with such rules and regulations as may be promulgated for the operation of said water system. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as requiring the county to furnish water to any consumer if in the discretion of said county it is not deemed feasible or desirable to do so.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 3)
Sec. 3-64. - Water authority, members generally.
(a)
The said water system is to be constructed, maintained and operated for and on behalf of said county by a five-man board to be known as the Clayton County water authority. The members of the board shall be appointed by the governing authority of said county. The first members appointed hereunder shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three, four and five years as shall be designated by the governing authority. All members shall be appointed for terms beginning March 1, 1961. Successors to these members and future members shall be appointed by the governing authority for terms of five years. All members shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. The governing authority of the county shall fill any vacancy which occurs on the authority, for the unexpired term. The members shall elect a chairman, vice-chairman and secretary who shall serve for such periods as shall be fixed by the authority. The authority shall make a report of its actions to the grand jury for the November term of the superior court of said county. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. A regular meeting shall be held once each month on a day to be set by the authority. The majority of the authority shall have the right to call a special meeting and the chairman shall have the right to call a special meeting. Each member of the authority shall be given at least three days written notice of each special meeting. The authority shall employ an attorney and provide for his compensation, and shall employ such other employees as the authority shall deem proper for the transaction of business and provide the compensation therefor. All such compensations shall be payable out of the earnings of said authority. The authority shall succeed to and be vested with all the powers, duties and authority of the authority presently existing and it shall be a continuation of the presently existing authority.
(b)
The chairman shall be compensated in the amount of $250.00 per month, the secretary $225.00 per month, and each of the other members $200.00 per month which shall be payable out of the earnings of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 4; Ga. Laws 1961, p. 3130, § 1; Ga. Laws 1982, p. 3721, § 1; Ga. Laws 1987, p. 5488, § 1)
Sec. 3-65. - Additional members; not to hold other office.
There shall be two additional members appointed to the Clayton County water authority by the governing authority of Clayton County for a term of two years and three years, respectively. Successors to these members and future members shall be appointed by the governing authority for terms of five years. All members shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. The governing authority of the county shall fill any vacancy which occurs on the authority, for the unexpired term. The powers, duties, authority and compensation of these two additional members shall be the same as other members.
No member of the present Clayton County water authority shall be eligible to hold an elective public office of the state, county or a municipality unless first resigning as a member of the authority. No person shall be eligible for future appointment to the Clayton County water authority who is serving in an elective public office of the state, county or a municipality.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 4A; Ga. Laws 1963, p. 2967, § 1)
Sec. 3-66. - Powers, duties of authority.
Said board shall have general supervision and control over the entire water system or systems that may be constructed and placed in operation for said county, together with the right to expand or curtail such operations as it may deem advisable. The board shall regulate and provide for the use of its water, fix the time, place and rates for such usage, and in default may cause such services to be discontinued until all arrears are fully paid, and may issue executions for any amount that may be past due and the secretary or clerk of said board is hereby authorized and empowered to issue execution therefor, which may be levied and collected as other executions. The board shall have power to construct, alter, expand and maintain such water system with the funds made available to it by the county governing authority by the issuance and sale of bonds, or revenue-anticipation certificates issued by said county, and by funds arising from the operation of said water system. The authority shall have the right to join with the county in the issuance of revenue-anticipation certificates and pledge the revenues of the authority to the payment of any such certificates so issued.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 5)
Sec. 3-67. - Right of eminent domain; revenue bonds.
The said authority is authorized, with approval of the county governing authority, to acquire by eminent domain such property as it may require for the expansion and development for its water and sewerage system together with right of ways, easements, and such other rights as may be proper for the development and expansion of said system.
Said authority shall have, with approval of the county governing authority, in addition to the rights granted by this Act all of the authority as provided by the O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq. entitled `Revenue Bonds' and all property or rights so secured shall be construed to be the property of Clayton County, and as an act of said county.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 5A; Ga. Laws 1966, p. 3107, § 1)
Sec. 3-68. - Handling of funds; rates, fee schedule.
The board is hereby charged with the duty of collection for all services rendered by said water system of said county and is hereby required to keep money so collected in a bank or banks as may be required by the county governing authority. Any person handling any of such funds shall be required to give a surety bond in such amount as may be required by said board and approved by the county governing authority. The board at all times shall maintain a schedule of fees, rates and tolls for the services of said water system as shall be sufficient to retire any revenue certificates, or other indebtedness incurred in the construction, maintenance, operation, and expansion of said water system, and to provide for any reserves and funds required to be maintained by the county in connection with the issuance of any such revenue certificates, together with sufficient amounts to pay the current operating costs of such water system. Any funds accumulated in excess of those required for the above purposes and not needed in the operation, maintenance, and expansion of such system, shall be transferred to the county governing authority to retire any general obligation water bonds that may be outstanding and any excess over the payments that may be due on such bonds shall be used by said county for any legal purposes for which taxes may be levied or expended.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 6)
Sec. 3-69. - Employees, records.
The board shall have power to employ or discharge its employees at its pleasure. It shall make quarterly reports to the county governing authority of all monies it has received and expenditures made in the operation of said water system.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 7)
Sec. 3-70. - Removal of members.
Said board shall be amenable to the county governing authority and subject to removal from office for neglect of duty or malfeasance in office.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 8)
Sec. 3-71. - Sewer system authorized.
The said Clayton County Water Authority is hereby authorized to construct a county sewerage system in said county, and all rights conferred to said board to construct, operate, and maintain a water system for said county and to join with the county in the issuance of revenue-anticipation certificates for that purpose, shall likewise apply to the construction, operation and maintenance of a sewerage system for said county.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 9)
Sec. 3-72. - Ownership of property.
Any water or sewerage systems that may be constructed under the provisions of this Act shall be construed to be property of Clayton County, and nothing in this Act shall be construed to limit the said County of Clayton in issuing bonds, revenue certificates or any other means of financing as are now or hereafter recognized by law for the development of such water or sewerage facilities. The powers and rights conferred by this Act shall be cumulative to the powers and rights that now exist.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 10)
Sec. 3-73. - Authority of board of commissioners.
The county governing authority [board of commissioners] may in its discretion alter, change, modify or repeal any of the rules or regulations adopted by the water authority.
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 11)
Sec. 3-74. - Definition.
The term county governing authority used in this Act shall be construed to mean the regularly elected commissioner or commissioners of roads and revenues of said county [board of commissioners].
(Ga. Laws 1955, p. 3344, § 12)
Secs. 3-75—3-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CLAYTON COUNTY AIRPORT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Act No. 935 (Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305) did not specifically amend the Related Laws; hence, inclusion of §§ 1—50 of said Act as §§ 3-91—3-140 was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 3-91. - Creation of authority.
There is created the Clayton County Airport Authority, which is referred to in this Act as the "authority." The authority shall be an instrumentality and political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation. The authority may exercise, subject to approval of the governing authority of Clayton County, the powers set out in this Act with respect to any land located within Clayton County or land contiguous to Clayton County which is, in either case, owned by Clayton County or the authority and used for airport purposes as provided in this Act.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 1)
Sec. 3-92. - Determination of need for the authority.
The General Assembly determines and declares that there is a present and projected rapid growth in commercial and private air traffic in the Clayton County area. There is the need for adequate airports safely and efficiently to serve the air transportation needs of this state and Clayton County through its metropolitan areas, the need to eliminate airport hazards, the need to raise large amounts of capital for the establishment, operation, and maintenance of present and future airports, and the need to coordinate the operation of various airports within certain metropolitan areas of the state. The General Assembly further determines and declares that the establishment of an authority is necessary and essential to ensure the welfare, safety, and convenience of citizens of the region and the entire state and to insure the proper economic development of the region and the entire state.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 2)
Sec. 3-93. - Declaration of purposes.
The purposes and objectives of this Act and the authority created by this Act shall be to meet the needs and requirements recognized in Section 2 of this Act [section 3-92] through the establishment, maintenance, and operation of a unified and coordinated airport system in the Clayton County area; to ensure the orderly and proper use and growth of the public airport; to ensure that the maximum public benefit is obtained from the public airport owned by Clayton County that is presently in existence and future airports; to ensure proper planning and establishment of airports needed in the future; to ensure the maximum participation of this region and state in national and international programs of air transportation; and to promote public transportation and commerce, all to the end of providing the most effective and economical use of public airports for the public welfare, safety, and convenience.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 3)
Sec. 3-94. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, unless the context in which they are used requires otherwise, the term:
(1)
"Airport" means any area of land or structure within the authority's jurisdiction as set out in Section 1 of this Act [section 3-91], which is or has been used or which the authority may plan to use for the landing and taking off of commercial, private, and military aircraft, including helicopters; all buildings, equipment, facilities, or other property and improvements of any kind or nature located within the bounds of any such land area or structure which are or have been used or which the authority may plan to use for terminal facilities; all facilities of any type for the accommodation of passengers, maintenance, servicing, and operation of aircraft, business offices and facilities of private businesses and governmental agencies, and the parking of automobiles; and all other activities which are or have been carried on or which may be necessary or convenient in conjunction with the landing and taking off of commercial, private and military aircraft, including all land originally acquired by Clayton County for the establishment of a county airport, any land to be deeded to Clayton County for airport use, including without limitation, aviation easements, and other real or personal property.
(2)
"Airport hazard" means any structure, terrain, or object of natural growth which obstructs or impedes the airspace required for the flight, landing, or taking off of aircraft to or from an airport, or any other thing that is hazardous to the flight, landing, or taking off of aircraft to or from an airport.
(3)
"County" means Clayton County, Georgia.
(4)
"Revenue Bond Law" means the provision of Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 4)
Sec. 3-95. - Members of the authority.
The authority shall be composed of seven members appointed by the governing authority of the county as provided in this Act. The authority shall be composed of seven posts.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 5)
Sec. 3-96. - Initial terms.
The initial terms of the members of the authority appointed to Posts 1 and 2 shall end on December 31, 1994; the initial terms of those members appointed to Posts 3 and 4 shall end on December 31, 1995; the initial terms of those members appointed to Posts 5 and 6 shall end on December 31, 1996, and the initial term of the member appointed to Post 7 shall end on December 31, 1997. Thereafter, all appointed members shall be appointed for terms of four years each and until their successors are appointed.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 6)
Sec. 3-97. - Election of officers, quorum, bylaws, procedures, and meetings.
After the appointment of the initial members, the full membership of the authority shall meet as soon as practicable and shall elect one of its members as chairperson and one as vice-chairperson, each of whom shall continue as voting members in such positions for the succeeding year and until their successors are elected. Thereafter, a chairperson and vice-chairperson shall be elected in the same manner each year to serve for the succeeding year and until their successors are elected. The chairperson shall preside at meetings of the authority and the vice-chairperson shall preside in his or her absence, and they shall have such other powers, duties, and responsibilities as are set out elsewhere in this Act and in the bylaws of the authority. The authority shall also designate a secretary to keep the minutes and records of the authority. A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. A majority of the quorum may exercise any and all powers of the authority. The authority shall, as soon as practicable, adopt its own bylaws, rules of procedure, and rules of conduct of its business. The authority shall meet at least once a month and at such other times as it may deem necessary.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 7)
Sec. 3-98. - Compensation of members.
The members shall receive no compensation but shall be reimbursed from the funds of the authority for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in pursuing the business of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 8)
Sec. 3-99. - Vacancies in authority.
Should an appointed member vacate his or her office either by resignation, death, removal, or for any other reason, the governing authority of the county shall, as soon as practicable, appoint another member as a member of the authority to complete the term of the vacating member. Until such time as a new member is appointed, the total number of members of the authority for the purposes of determining a quorum shall not include the vacating member.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 9)
Sec. 3-100. - Removal of members.
Any member may be removed from office for good cause affecting his or her ability to perform his or her duties as a member, for misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office, or for violating the conflicts of interest provisions of this Act by vote of a majority vote of the governing authority of the county, but only after a public hearing at which such member is given the right to present evidence on his or her own behalf and only upon a finding by a majority of the governing authority of the county that good cause for removal affecting the member's ability to perform his or her duties as a member exists, that he or she was guilty of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office, or that he or she violated the conflicts of interest provisions of this Act.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 10)
Sec. 3-101. - Executive director, treasurer, and other administrative officers and employees.
The authority may, subject to approval by the governing authority of the county, appointed and fix the compensation of an executive director under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate. The executive director shall be the chief executive and operating officer of the authority. He or she shall have had experience as a business executive, preferably in connection with the field of aviation. Under the supervision of the authority and the governing authority of the county, the executive director shall be responsible for the operation, management and promotion of all activities with which the authority is charged under this Act, together with such other duties as may be prescribed by the authority, and he or she shall have such powers as are necessarily incident to the performance of his or her duties and such other powers as may be granted by the authority and the governing authority of the county. Additionally, the authority may, subject to approval by the governing authority of the county, in a like manner appoint and fix the compensation of a treasurer, who shall have custody of all moneys, funds, notes, bonds, and other securities as the authority may prescribe. The authority may also, subject to approval by the governing authority of the county, authorize and employ such other administrative officers and employees under such terms and conditions as the authority shall consider necessary and appropriate to effectuate its purposes under this Act.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 11)
Sec. 3-102. - Conflicts of interest.
No member, officer, or employee of the authority shall have a financial interest, direct or indirect, in any contract with the authority or be financially interested, directly or indirectly, in the sale to the authority of any lands, material, supplies, or services, except on behalf of the authority as a member, officer, or employee. Any violation of the provisions of this section by a member of this authority shall be grounds for removal pursuant to Section 10 of this Act [section 3-100]. Any violation of the provisions of this section by the executive director, any officer, or any employee of the authority shall be grounds for removal by the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 12)
Sec. 3-103. - Powers of the authority.
The authority shall possess, subject to approval by the governing authority of the county and those conditions and limitations set out elsewhere in this Act, all the powers necessary or convenient for it to accomplish the purposes of this Act, including the following specific powers, which shall not be construed as a limitation upon the general or other specific powers conferred in this Act:
(1)
To adopt a seal to be used for the authentication of legal documents, obligations, contracts, and other instruments and to alter same at the pleasure of the authority;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift or otherwise and to hold, lease, sell, use, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character or any interest therein;
(3)
To request the county to exercise the power of eminent domain to acquire any private real property or any rights or interests therein, including any easements, as necessary or convenient for the accomplishment of the purposes of this Act, including the elimination of airport hazards, in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the exercise of such power, including, without limitation, the authority provided for in O.C.G.A. § 6-3-22. The authority shall pay for any property condemned under this power from funds of the authority and in proceedings to condemn pursuant to this section. The court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings may enter such orders regarding the payment for such property or interest therein as may be fair and just to the county, the authority, and to the owners of the property being condemned. Any such procedure shall suggest the method of payment to persons who own or have an interest in the property acquired by the authority;
(4)
To appoint, select, and contract for the services of engineers, architects, building contractors, accountants, and other fiscal agents, attorneys, and such other persons, firms, or corporations as are necessary to accomplish the purposes of this Act for such fees or compensation and under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate;
(5)
To plan, acquire, establish, develop, construct, enlarge, improve, maintain, equip, and lease all airports which shall come under the control of the authority under the provisions of this Act or which it may acquire or plan to acquire; to regulate, protect, and police such airports and all related activities and facilities; to enter into any contracts, leases, or other agreements, promulgate any orders, set any tolls, fees, or other charges for the use of property or services of the authority and collect and use same as necessary to operate the airports under control of the authority; and to accomplish any purposes of this Act and make any purchases or sales necessary for such purposes;
(6)
To contract with any persons, firms, or public or private corporations to supply goods, commodities, facilities, and services to the public, employees of the authority, and employees of air carriers and other commercial interests located at any airport under the control of the authority under such terms and conditions as it may prescribe, including the power to grant exclusive rights, franchises, or concessions;
(7)
To adopt and enforce reasonable rules and regulations for the orderly, safe, efficient, and sanitary operation of airports and related facilities under the control of the authority, to provide its own security force and peace officers with powers of arrest or to arrange for such security force or peace officers in connection with any municipality or county, and to prescribe reasonable penalties for the breach of any rule or regulation. All such rules, regulations, or orders shall become effective upon approval of the authority and after publication of a notice containing a substantive statement of the rule or regulation and the penalty for violation thereof in a newspaper of general circulation of the county in which rules and regulations are to be applied. The notice shall state that the breach of the rule or regulation will subject the violator to the penalty and shall state that the full text of all rules and regulations shall be maintained in the principal office of the authority where such text will be open to public inspection and perusal. All rules and regulations shall in fact be so maintained. Said rules and regulations, when promulgated as provided under this Act, shall be judicially recognized by and enforceable in the court of any municipality or the county in which airports under the control of the authority are located and having jurisdiction over the place where any violation occurs;
(8)
To provide fire protection and crash and rescue services or to arrange for such services in connection with any federal, state, municipal, or county agency or any private firm in the business of providing such services;
(9)
To make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or to any other source, public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance in aid of airports under the control of the authority and to accept and use such loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by the federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or other source;
(10)
To enter into agreements with the state, any state agency, county, municipality, or the federal government or any agency thereof to use in the performance of the functions of the authority, any facilities or services of the state or such agency, county, municipality, or the federal government or any agency thereof in order to accomplish the purposes as set forth in this Act;
(11)
To borrow money to accomplish any purposes and executive evidences of indebtedness therefor and secure such indebtedness in such manner as the authority may provide by resolution authorizing such indebtedness to be incurred; provided, however, that the authority shall not pledge for the payment of such indebtedness revenue pledged for the payment of any other indebtedness then outstanding or incumber property in violation of the terms of any existing contract, agreement, or trust indenture securing existing indebtedness;
(12)
To issue negotiable bonds, including revenue and refunding bonds, under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate and to provide for the payment of same and for the rights of the holders therefor;
(13)
To enter into any financial arrangements whatsoever necessary to accomplish the purposes of this Act not prohibited by this Act or by the Constitution of the State of Georgia;
(14)
To sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of surplus personal property, and to sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of land and any improvements thereon acquired by the authority pursuant to law which the authority may determine is no longer required to accomplish the purposes of this Act, including property which is suitable for industrial development. Any such property may be sold, leased or otherwise disposed of upon such terms and conditions as may be provided by resolution of the authority. The proceeds of any such sale may be used by the authority to accomplish any of the purposes of this Act;
(15)
To determine what usage may be made of airports subject to the control of the authority, including the power to determine what classes of aircraft may use particular airports in order to derive the maximum public benefit from all airports;
(16)
To exercise each and every power that any municipality or any county could exercise, under laws existing at the time this Act becomes law, over airports owned or operated by any municipality or any county which subsequently comes under the control of the authority under the provisions of this Act just as if the authority were the municipality or the county that previously owned or operated such airport and with regard to any future airport or airports not existing at the time this Act becomes law, the authority may exercise each and every power that the municipality or county could have exercised under this Act had the authority acquired the ownership or operation of any such airport or airports just as if the authority were the municipality or county;
(17)
To enter into contracts, leases or other agreements with federally certificated air carriers, other commercial air carriers, and other commercial users of the authority's airports, for the use of such airports under such terms and conditions as the authority deems appropriate and for such charges, rentals, and fees as the authority deems appropriate under the circumstances;
(18)
To enter into such agreement with any municipality or county presently operating airports of which the authority may subsequently assume control with respect to the manner of transfer of airport employees from any municipality or any county to the authority as the authority deems necessary and appropriate under the circumstances;
(19)
To establish a plan of civil service for officers and employees of the authority or to provide by resolution that such officers and employees of the authority shall be covered under any state, county, or municipal civil service plan which is available to such employees under the laws of this state or any county or municipality; and
(20)
To establish a plan for retirement, disability, hospitalization, and death benefits for officers and employees of the authority or to provide by resolution that such officers and employees shall be covered under any state, county, or municipal plan available to them under the laws of this state or any county or municipality.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 13)
Sec. 3-104. - Execution of contracts, leases, obligations, agreements, or other legal instruments.
Any and all contracts, leases, obligations, agreements, or other legal instruments of the authority shall be approved by resolution of the authority and shall be executed by those individuals designated in such resolution, and in the absence of such designation, by the chairperson or vice-chairperson. Nothing in this provision shall prohibit general resolutions authorizing the executive director or other officers, agents, or employees to execute such contracts, leases, obligations, agreements, or other legal instruments as the authority may prescribe; provided, however, that all such contracts, leases, obligations, agreements, or other legal instruments shall be approved by the governing authority of the county.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 14)
Sec. 3-105. - Revenue bonds, Revenue Bond Law applicable.
The authority shall have the power and is authorized, at one time or from time to time as it deems necessary to accomplish the purpose of this Act, to issue revenue bonds pursuant to the Revenue Bond Law, subject to approval by the governing authority or the county. The authority is determined to be a municipality within the meaning of that law and is authorized to utilize any and all procedures set out in this Act, and to exercise any and all powers of a municipality under such law. The members of the authority shall constitute the governing body as that term is used in such law. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, nothing in this section shall be construed so as to limit the power of the authority to issue any bonds authorized pursuant to paragraph (13) of Section 13 of this Act [section 3-103], except as provided in such law.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 15)
Sec. 3-106. - Validation of revenue bonds, location of authority.
For purposes of validation of bonds under the Revenue Bond Law, the authority shall be considered to be located in Clayton County.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 16)
Sec. 3-107. - Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may provide for the replacement of any bonds issued by the authority which have been mutilated or destroyed.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 17)
Sec. 3-108. - Bonds; trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, subject to approval by the governing authority of the county, any issue of bonds pursuant to this Act may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale from time to time of any surplus property of the authority, either real or personal. The resolution providing for the issuance of such bonds or the trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property; the construction of airports, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of property; and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys of the authority. Such resolution or trust indenture may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects satisfactory to the trustee or to the bondholders, and may also require that the security given by any contracts and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys shall be satisfactory to such trustee or bondholders, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such security as may be required by the authority. Such resolution or trust indenture may set forth rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustees, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such resolution or trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable, proper and appropriate for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in connection with any trust indenture or such resolution made in accordance therewith may be treated as operating expenses of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 18)
Sec. 3-109. - Revenue bonds; additional powers as to security.
In addition to other powers granted in this Act as to the issuance of revenue bonds and security for such bond, and subject to approval of the governing authority of the county and those conditions and limitations set out elsewhere in this Act, the authority shall have the power to enter into any financial and contractual arrangements with users of airports under the control of the authority, including commercial air carriers which are deemed appropriate by the authority in order to provide security to bondholders, and for such purposes, the authority may also enter into joint agreements, arrangements, or trust indentures with such users and trustee or trustees under any trust indenture authorized under Section 18 of this Act [section 3-108] in order that funds may be procured to accomplish the purposes of this Act at the least possible cost to the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 19)
Sec. 3-110. - Revenue bonds; interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of officers, employees, or agents of the authority shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will adversely affect the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority shall be created which competes with the authority to such an extent as to adversely affect the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 20)
Sec. 3-111. - Revenue bonds; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and said bonds and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 21)
Sec. 3-112. - Revenue bonds as legal investments for trustees and as lawful deposits of securities with public officers.
Any bonds issued by the authority under the provisions of this Act shall be deemed securities in which all public officers and bodies of this state, municipalities, and municipal subdivisions; insurance companies, associations, and other persons carrying on an insurance business; banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks and associations, investment companies, and other persons carrying on a banking business; administrators, guardians, executors, trustees, and other fiduciaries; and all other persons whomsoever who are now or may hereafter be authorized to invest in bonds or other obligations of the state may properly and legally invest funds including capital in their control or belonging to them. The bonds are also deemed securities which may be deposited with, and shall be received by, all public officers and bodies of this state, municipalities, and municipal subdivisions for any purpose for which the deposit of the bonds or other obligations of this state is now or may hereafter be authorized.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 22)
Sec. 3-113. - Revenue bonds; form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall, subject to approval by the governing authority of the county, determine the form of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest which may be at a bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal and also as to both the principal and interest.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 23)
Sec. 3-114. - Revenue bonds; signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he or she had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairperson of the authority and attested by the secretary-treasurer of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairperson and secretary-treasurer of the authority. Any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of delivery and payment of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 24)
Sec. 3-115. - Revenue bonds; negotiability.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have, and are declared to have, all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instrument law of the state.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 25)
Sec. 3-116. - Revenue bonds; sale; price.
The authority may sell, subject to approval by the governing authority of the county, such bonds in such manner and for such price as the authority may determine to be for the best interest of the authority; but no such sale shall be made at a price less than such price as provided in the Revenue Bond Law, unless such article is amended to permit the sale of such bonds at less than par.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 26)
Sec. 3-117. - Revenue bonds; proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of revenue bonds issued pursuant to this Act shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of bonds in the trust indenture, additional bonds may, in like manner, be issued to provide the amount of any deficit for the cost of the project or projects, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purposes. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into a sinking fund or used for additional construction as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 27)
Sec. 3-118. - Revenue bonds; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary revenue bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 28)
Sec. 3-119. - Revenue bonds; conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may, subject to approval by the governing authority of the county, be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular, special, or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as provided in this Act.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 29)
Sec. 3-120. - Revenue bonds; credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall be payable from the fund provided for in this Act and, unless otherwise authorized and approved by the governing authority of the county, the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the county or any municipality therein to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 30)
Sec. 3-121. - Revenue bonds; to whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purpose of this Act, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolutions or trust indenture may provide.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 31)
Sec. 3-122. - Revenue bonds; sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued and any moneys derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal of the authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund, which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as such principal shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying an agent or agents for paying interest and principal; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as provided in this Act.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 32)
Sec. 3-123. - Revenue bonds; refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized, subject to approval by the governing authority of the county, to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities, and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 33)
Sec. 3-124. - Revenue bonds; validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedures of the Revenue Bond Law. The petition for validation shall also make party as a defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of this state or the federal government or any department or agency of the federal government, if subject to be sued, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality, shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the federal government if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 34)
Sec. 3-125. - Property of authority deemed to be public property.
It is declared that all property of the authority held pursuant to the terms of this Act, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, and of any kind or nature, and any income or revenue therefrom is held for an essential public and governmental purpose and all such property is deemed to be public property.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 35)
Sec. 3-126. - Transfer of airport and related facilities to authority; public necessity.
The authority shall by resolution, at such times as shall be deemed appropriate, determine what public airports within its jurisdiction, as set out in Section 1 of this Act [section 3-91], are necessary to accomplish the purposes of this Act, and shall inform the governing authority of Clayton County of such determination and request that the governing authority convey by deed all of the right and interest in real property and any other property making up such airports owned by Clayton County to the authority for a proper consideration within such time as the authority may prescribe, subject to the provisions of Section 38 of this Act [section 3-128]. It is declared that the conveyance of such property is necessary and essential in order to accomplish the purposes of this Act so as to secure the public welfare, safety, and convenience.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 36)
Sec. 3-127. - Transfer of contracts to authority.
Upon conveyance of any airport to the authority pursuant to Section 36 of this Act [section 3-126], all contracts, commitments, leases, and other obligations of Clayton County with respect to such airport shall be transferred to the authority, and the authority shall stand in the place of Clayton County for the purposes of such contracts, commitments, leases, or other obligations, subject to the provisions of Section 38 of this Act [section 3-128].
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 37)
Sec. 3-128. - Conveyances and transfers to be accomplished so as to protect interests of bondholders and others affected thereby.
The conveyance of an airport and related facilities by Clayton County to the authority pursuant to Section 36 of this Act [section 3-126], and the transfer of contracts, commitments, leases, and any other obligations to the authority from Clayton County pursuant to Section 37 of this Act [section 3-127] shall be accomplished under such terms and conditions as may be necessary to protect the interest of bondholders of Clayton County affected by such conveyances and transfers and other parties affected thereby. Transfers may be conditioned so as to protect such interests, and the authority and Clayton County may enter into any agreements with each other or other parties necessary to protect such interests.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 38)
Sec. 3-129. - Airport subject to control of authority.
Any airport acquired by the authority pursuant to this Act or acquired by the authority in any legal manner, and any other property held by the authority, shall be under the control of the authority, and the authority shall have the right to exercise any and all of the powers set out in this Act in regard thereto.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 39)
Sec. 3-130. - Powers of authority limited to airports.
All of the powers, general and specific, granted to the authority pursuant to this Act shall be exercised only in regard to airports and are subject to approval of the governing authority of the county. The authority shall not have the power to plan, construct, finance, operate, or maintain any facilities other than airports and related facilities; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the authority from cooperating with other federal, state, county, or municipal governmental agencies or public corporations in order to coordinate other types of facilities with airports under the control of the authority or purchasing, selling, exchanging, or otherwise acquiring any property from or with such agencies or corporations.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 40)
Sec. 3-131. - Funds of authority to be used only for airports.
The funds of the authority, from whatever source, shall be used only in support of airports as defined in this Act, but nothing in this section shall prohibit the authority from making, subject to approval by the governing authority of the county, any and all expenditures of any kind or nature necessary to support such airports under the control of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 41)
Sec. 3-132. - Publication of financial report and budget.
The authority shall, at least annually, publish in the legal newspaper of Clayton County a statement of sources and expenditures of funds for the previous year and the proposed budget for the following year.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 42)
Sec. 3-133. - Fire and emergency medical protection.
The governing authority of Clayton County may continue to provide fire and emergency medical protection for the authority at Clayton County Airport—Tara Field.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 43)
Sec. 3-134. - Maintenance of roads, taxiways, and runways.
The county shall continue to maintain the roads, taxiways, and runways of the authority at no cost to the authority. Such roads, taxiways, and runways shall be maintained accordingly to meet minimum standards as set forth by the Federal Aviation Administration, this state, and the county.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 44)
Sec. 3-135. - Funds due from the Federal Aviation Administration.
All funds currently due from the Federal Aviation Administration to the county, unless otherwise committed or encumbered by agreement, shall be assigned to the authority as initial operating and construction capital.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 45)
Sec. 3-136. - Immunity from liability.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability from torts and negligence as the state, the county, and members, officers, agents, and employees of the authority who, in performance of the work of the authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability from torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of the state and the county when in performance of their public duties or work of the state or the county.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 46)
Sec. 3-137. - Tax exemption of the authority.
It is found, determined, and declared that the creation of the authority and the carrying out of its authorized purposes are in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state and county and constitute a public purpose and that the authority will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the power conferred upon it by this Act. The authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of the facilities erected, maintained, or acquired by it nor upon any fees, rentals, or other charges for the use of such facilities or other income received by the authority. It is hereby covenated with the holders from time to time of the bonds, notes, and other obligations issued under this Act that the authority shall not be required to pay any taxes or assessments imposed by the state or any of its counties, municipal corporations, political subdivisions, or taxing districts on any property acquired by the authority or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or leased by it to others or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of any such property or on any income derived by the authority in the form of fees, recording fees, rentals, charges, purchase price, installments, or otherwise, and that the bonds, notes, and other obligations of the authority, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within the state.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 47)
Sec. 3-138. - Rights of personnel.
All rights, credits, and funds in any retirement system of the county which are possessed by any personnel of the authority at the time of employment by the authority shall be continued, subject to approval of the governing authority of the county, and it is the intent of this Act that any such employees and personnel shall not lose rights, credits, or funds to which they were entitled prior to being employed by the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 48)
Sec. 3-139. - Dissolution of authority.
In the event of dissolution of the authority, all property, real and personal, tangible and intangible, shall revert to and be the property of the county, subject to all rights and encumbrances thereon; provided that the county, by acceptance thereof, shall fulfill all obligations of the authority.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 49)
Sec. 3-140. - Principal office of authority; service or process.
The principal office of the authority shall be in Clayton County. Service of process on the authority may be effectuated upon the executive director or other officers of the authority as in the case of private corporations incorporated or domesticated under the laws of this state.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4305, § 50)
