ARTICLE VIII. - TREE ORDINANCE[3]

Footnotes:

2-16-301 - Purpose and Intent.
This ordinance is enacted to provide policies and plans for the planting, maintenance, replacement, preservation and removal of trees on public property and to provide policies for nuisance and diseased trees with the following goals:
Enhance wildlife habitat.
Prevent increases in air pollution and carbon dioxide levels in the air.
Minimize increases in temperatures on parks and along streets with natural tree cover.
Maintain moisture levels in the air of parks and land with natural tree cover.
Protect and enhance the aesthetic qualities of the community.
Prevent soil erosion.
Minimize conflicts with other public infrastructure.
Protect the public safety, welfare and health of the community.
2-16-302 - Definitions.
Tree: A self-supporting woody plant which includes a tree, shrub, or any portion of these plants, i.e. limbs, roots, et cetera of a species which has developed or can develop a trunk or trunks of two inches diameter or more at a height of six inches above ground level.
Street Trees: Trees whose trunk is entirely on land lying within the boundaries of any County owned property on streets, roads, or avenues within the county.
Park Trees: Trees in public parks, or in areas to which the public has free access as a park, or in other areas owned by the county.
Topping: The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within the tree's crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
Specimen Trees: Any tree designated by state government, the Glynn County Board of Commissioners, or the Tree Board as being of notable historic interest or value because of its size, age, type, or historic association.
County:The jurisdiction encompassing the unincorporated area of Glynn County, Georgia, or its governing authority, the Glynn County Board of Commissioners.
Board: The Tree Board established by this ordinance.
2-16-303 - Creation and Establishment of a Tree Board.
a.
Composition and Appointment. There is hereby created a Tree Board to consist of seven members to be appointed by the Board of Commissioners to serve for terms of four years or until their successor is appointed, except that the initial terms shall be staggered as described herein.
Each district and at-large post of the Board of Commissioners shall correspond to a seat on the Tree Board. Nominations for appointment to the Tree Board shall be made by the member of the Glynn County Board of Commissioners serving the corresponding district on the Glynn County Board of Commissioners.
Nominees may be residents of the nominating Commissioner's District. The nominee from the Glynn County Board of Commissioners At-Large Posts shall be a resident of any part of Glynn County.
Appointments for the Tree Board seats corresponding to Glynn County Board of Commissioners Districts 3 and 4 shall serve for an initial term of two years. Appointments for the Tree Board seats corresponding to Glynn County Board of Commissioners Districts 5 and At-Large Post 1 shall serve for an initial term of three years. The appointments corresponding to Glynn County Board of Commissioners Districts 1, 2 and At-Large Post 2 shall serve for an initial term of four years. However, any member nominated by an individual District or At-Large Commissioner shall have his or her term end six months after the ending date of that nominating Commissioner's term of office. This latter provision shall not apply to persons whose nominating Commissioner fails to complete their term of office nor shall appointments which can be nominated by any member of the Board of Commissioners be effected by this provision unless directly ordered by the Board of Commissioners, This provision shall apply to all appointments made after November 18, 1998.
All subsequent appointments for full or partially expired terms shall be made by the Board of Commissioners after nomination by the appropriate Commissioner in the same manner as set forth herein. Each succeeding nominee must meet the same residence standards as his or her predecessor. No person shall serve more than two consecutive full terms on the Board.
b.
Qualifications. All members shall have been full-time residents of Glynn County for a period of at least two years and have an interest and/or experience in urban forestry.
c.
Ex-officio Members. Non-Voting Ex-officio members to assist with the duties and responsibilities shall be appointed by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners to include the following:
The Glynn County Administrator;
A representative member of the Glynn County Board of Commissioners;
A representative of the Glynn County Planning Commission;
The Director of County Public Works Department;
The Director of County Community Development Department;
The County Engineer;
The County Traffic Engineer;
The Georgia Forestry Commission Forester;
The Cooperative Extension Service Agent;
The Chairman of Glynn Clean and Beautiful;
The Land Forester of Georgia Power; and
The Director of the Sea Island Landscape Department.
Individuals serving as Ex-officio members may serve any number of terms provided they continue to hold their office as listed above. Ex-officio members may be removed as described in (d) below. Ex-officio members shall have full rights of debate with other Board members.
d.
Vacancies and Removal of Members. Any Board member who resigns or who is found by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners to be unable or unwilling to perform the functions required of a member of the Board shall be replaced by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners. Any individual appointed to the Board to replace such a Board member shall be appointed to serve the balance of the unexpired term. No part of such a partial term shall count towards the two consecutive term limit. Alternatively, any member may be removed from office six months after the ending date of the Commissioner's term of office who initially nominated them to serve on the Planning Commission, unless prohibited by state statute. Alternatively, a member's term shall automatically end six months after the ending date of the nominating Commissioner's term of office.
(Amended 02/05/04)
2-16-304 - Duties and Responsibilities.
It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study, investigate, counsel, and develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in the public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the Board of Commissioners and upon its acceptance and approval by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the county. The Tree Board shall consider, investigate make findings, report, recommend upon and administer any special matter or question coming within the scope of tree planting, maintenance, replacement, protection or removal.
2-16-305 - Operation of Tree Board.
The rules and regulations governing the operation of the Tree Board shall be stated in the by-laws of the organization, which must be approved by the Board of Commissioners. The by-laws can be modified by the Board with the approval of the Glynn County Board of Commissioners or by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners acting on its own initiative.
2-16-306 - Care of Public Trees.
At the direction of the Tree Board in conformance with the approved tree plan, the county shall plant, prune, maintain and remove trees and shrubs within all streets, alleys, avenues, lands and squares owned by the county, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed any such tree or part thereof which is an unsafe condition or which may by reason of its nature be injurious to sewers, electric power lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is afflicted with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest or disease.
The planting, maintenance and removal of trees shall be conducted according to the written plan developed by the Tree Board and approved by the county. As part of the plan, the Tree Board shall also develop a list of tree species to be planted and grouped by three size classifications. No species other than those on the list shall be planted without written approval by the Tree Board.
2-16-307 - Proper Pruning Practices.
Only public utilities, Glynn County, or other public authorities or persons or firms employed by any of the preceding may trim street trees or park trees. The following are accepted tree trimming and tree maintenance standards to be followed when such work is deemed necessary:
a.
All trees designated for trimming shall be trimmed according to International Society of Arboriculture standards.
b.
Trees trimmed for clearance from utility lines may be trimmed in such a manner as to provide clearance from lines for a designated period of time or cycle not to exceed three years. Clearance is defined as the distance necessary to prevent regrowth from contacting utility lines before the tree is retrimmed on the designated cycle. In all cases where conditions permit, drop-crotch or side trimming methods will be used to obtain necessary clearance.
c.
Where necessary trimming harms the shape of the tree, additional trimming shall be done so as to give the tree satisfactory shape and appearance.
d.
Where possible all cuts should be flush with the trunk of the tree in order to eliminate excessive sprouts and unsightly stubs. A stub is defined as any limb not cut to a lateral or any limb cut to a lateral less than ¼ the diameter of the cut limb.
e.
All cuts shall be made so as to prevent rips of the bark.
f.
No hanging limb shall be left in trees.
The person(s) trimming the tree is responsible for disposal of wood residue and trimmed parts of the tree, including, without limitations, chips, logs, and limbs.
2-16-308 - Spacing.
Except as approved otherwise by the Tree Board, the spacing of street trees shall be in accordance with that specified for each of the species size classifications determined in the tree plan.
2-16-309 - Distance from Curbs or Sidewalks.
Except as approved otherwise by the Tree Board, the distance street trees are planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks shall be in accordance with the species size classifications listed in the tree plan; excepting those cases where a Planned Development, as set forth in Section 723 of the Zoning Ordinance of Glynn County, has been approved. No trees may be planted within eight feet of the edge of paving, curb or gutter of any road nor closer than five feet from the edge of any sidewalk. The allowable distance of street trees from curbs or sidewalks shall not pertain to existing trees. The Tree Plan shall define the terms small, medium or large trees as used herein.
2-16-310 - Distance from Street Corners and Fireplugs.
Except as approved otherwise by the Tree Board, street trees shall be planted no closer than 30 feet of any street corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. Street trees or park trees shall be planted no closer than 8 feet of a fireplug. The allowable distance from street corners and fireplugs shall not apply to existing trees.
2-16-311 - Utilities.
Except as approved otherwise by the Tree Board:
Trees categorized as small-height, small-spread (SS); small-height, medium-spread (SM); and medium-height, small-spread in the tree plan shall not be planted under or within 20 lateral feet of any overhead utility wire.
Trees categorized as medium-height, medium-spread (MM) or large-height, medium-spread (LM) in the tree plan shall not be planted under or within 40 lateral feet of any overhead utility wire.
Trees categorized as large-height, wide-spread (LW) in the tree plan shall not be planted under or within 50 lateral feet of any overhead utility wire.
No tree shall be planted over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer or drainage line, transmission line or other utility. The allowable distance of trees from utilities shall not apply to existing trees.
2-16-312 - Dead or Diseased Tree Removal on Private Property.
Upon receiving a complaint of a tree or trees on private property constituting a hazard to life or property, or having diseases or other pests which constitute an imminent threat to other trees within the county, the Tree Board shall notify in writing the owner of such tree(s) requesting an inspection to determine the extent of the threat and the appropriate remedial action such as pruning, treatment or removal of such tree(s).
Should the property owner fail to grant an inspection or effect remediation of such condition within 60 days of written notification, the Tree Board shall notify the District Attorney of Glynn County of the existence or probable existence of a nuisance with their recommendations as to what should be done to correct the situation (if known) and their request that the District Attorney take the necessary steps to abate the nuisance.
(Amended 09/07/06)
2-16-313 - Removal of Stumps.
All stumps of street and park tree shall be removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground if such removal is deemed by the Glynn County Director of Public Works to be necessary to avoid the stump becoming a safety hazard.
2-16-314 - Specimen Trees.
The Tree Board shall have the responsibility of identifying specimen trees. Identification shall include the species, size, location, and significance of the tree.
2-16-315 - Interference with Tree Board.
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent the operation of or interfere with the Tree Board, or any of its agents or any county employee operating pursuant to directions of the Tree Board while engaging in the planting, cultivation, mulching, pruning, treating, or removing of any street trees or park trees. Any person guilty of such interference shall be punished as provided herein for a violation on this ordinance.
2-16-316 - Appeals.
Any person may appeal any ruling or order or act of the Tree Board to the Glynn County Board of Commissioners. Written notice of the appeal shall be delivered to the Glynn County Administrator within 30 days of the date the decision being appealed was made. Any such notice of appeal shall state with specificity what action(s) are being appealed and the grounds therefor.
2-16-317 - Review by Board of Commissioners of Tree Board Actions.
The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to review, approve, countermand or alter any conduct, act, or decision of the Tree Board.
2-16-318 - Emergency Conditions.
In case of declared emergencies under Section 2-2-24 of the Glynn County Code of Ordinances from hurricanes, tornados, windstorms, or other disasters, the requirements of this ordinance may be waived by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners during the emergency period so that the requirements of this ordinance will not hamper public or private efforts to restore public order, safety, services or welfare in the county.
2-16-319 - Excepted Trees.
The following trees shall not be subject to this ordinance or to the jurisdiction of the Tree Board:
(a)
Trees that are declared dead by the County Agent or a registered forester;
(b)
Trees located within an area to which Glynn County has a utility or drainage easement;
(c)
Downed trees, which is defined for this ordinance as any tree that has fallen down onto the earth, or onto some other tree or thing so that it is not entirely supportive of its own weight.
(d)
Any tree within an approved road improvement project area.
2-16-320 - Roadway Improvement Projects.
The initial plans for any county-designed or reviewed roadway improvement project shall be submitted to the Tree Board during the design or review phase and prior to their submission to Glynn County Board of Commissioners for final approval. The plans for any privately developed public roadway improvement project shall be submitted to the Tree Board at the same time as submission to the Community Development Department. The Tree Board shall have 14 days to submit their recommendations to the County Engineer as to such project. The County Engineer or his designee shall respond to the Tree Boards' recommendations and make such changes as he deems appropriate prior to submission to the Glynn County Board of Commissioners for final approval. The Glynn County Board of Commissioners shall either approve the plan, approve it with changes or refuse approval and return it to the County Engineer for further work. Should the plan be returned to the County Engineer, it must be resubmitted to the Tree Board for comments at least five days before resubmission to the Glynn County Board of Commissioners for final approval.
2-16-321 - Violations.
Any persons violating any provision of this ordinance shall be punished by any combination of a fine of up to $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a period of up to 60 days or both.
