Chapter 2-17 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

2-17-1—2-17-18 - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WRECKER SERVICE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Note— (Ordinance of 6/16/83; Amended 6/21/83; 9/5/85; 5/27/93; 4/20/95; 5/1/97; 12/4/97; 06/04/98; 09/21/00; 02/15/01; 04/07/05; 02/05/09; 01/07/16; 12/07/17)

DIVISION I. - GENERALLY

2-17-19 - Short Title.
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "The Glynn County Wrecker Ordinance."
2-17-20 - Definitions.
For the purpose of this ordinance, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural include the singular number and words in the singular number include the plural number.
a.
Car Carrier. A car carrier shall mean any device for the transferring of automobiles utilizing a flatbed truck.
b.
Commission. Commission shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Glynn County.
c.
Heavy-duty Wrecker. A heavy-duty wrecker shall be defined as a wrecker with at least 25,000 pounds minimum G.V.W. rating equipped with 16 to 25 ton P.T. mechanically driven power winch, crane and boom and having dual wheels.
d.
Light-duty Wrecker. A light duty wrecker shall be defined as a wrecker with at least 10,000 pounds minimum G.V.W. rating equipped with an 8,000 point P.T. driven mechanically power winch, crane and boom having dual wheels, or a rollback body designed to carry vehicles .
e.
Operator. Operator shall include the person owning the wrecker service and the wrecker service's agents and employees.
f.
Person. Person shall mean a firm, company, partnership, corporation, or other business venture.
g.
Wrecker. The term wrecker as used in this ordinance, means an automotive vehicle for hire equipped with hoisting apparatus and other equipment for towing wrecked automobiles or other type of vehicles.
h.
Wrecker Service. Wrecker service means any person, firm, company, partnership, and corporation, which on a regular basis holds itself out to the general public in Glynn County as being engaged solely or partially in the business of towing wrecked or disabled vehicles for a fee.
(O-1995-05)
2-17-21—2-17-29 - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - REGISTRATION

2-17-30 - License and Registration with Glynn County Police Department Required; Information for Registration.
It shall be unlawful for any wrecker service, either as principal, agent or employee, to use or operate upon any portion of any roadway or street located in the unincorporated area of Glynn County, a wrecker as defined in this ordinance without first having filed a registration on each wrecker owned or operated by it. All such vehicles shall be registered with the Glynn County Police Department, upon a form to be provided by Glynn County. The registration form shall contain at a minimum the following information: (a) complete home and business address and telephone number of the operator of any wrecker; (b) title certificate number for all wreckers and date issued; (c) description of the wrecker to be registered including the make, model and manufacturer's serial number; (d) date the vehicle was first put in service as a wrecker; (e) persons including employees and agents who are authorized to operate said wrecker and the class of driver's license held by each such operator; (f) name or names of all persons having a financial interest in the operation of the wrecker; and (g) the name and address of the insurance company or companies which the wrecker service and all operators have liability insurance. A registration will be filed for each wrecker owned or operated by a wrecker service. The registration shall not be assignable to any other person, firm, corporation or other entity without the prior written approval of the Glynn County Police Department.
(Amended 01/07/16)
2-17-31 - Registration Fee; Expiration and Renewal Dates of Registration.
There is hereby established pursuant to this ordinance, an annual registration fee in the amount of $25.00 dollars payable to the Glynn County Police Department, per wrecker owned or operated by a wrecker service. All registration shall expire on December 31 of each year and shall be renewed between the dates of January 2 and January 20 of each calendar year.
(O-1995-01)
2-17-32 - Reserved.
2-17-33 - Required Information to be Printed on Side of Vehicle.
It shall be unlawful for any wrecker service to use or operate upon any of the streets, roadways or bridges in the unincorporated area of Glynn County a wrecker unless such vehicle is permanently lettered on each side of the vehicle and has in plain view the following information: (a) the name of the person owning or operating the wrecker; (b) the business address of the operator (such information required in (a) and (b) herein shall be permanently affixed in a contrasting color to the color of the wrecker and shall consist of lettering at least two and one-half inches in height); and (c) identifying information, as follows, "Glynn County Permit No. _________" (such information required in (c) herein shall be permanently affixed in a contrasting color to the color of the wrecker's front doors or forward of the front doors, shall be affixed on both left and right front doors or on the upper section of both left and right front fenders and shall consist of lettering at least four inches in height). Temporary or removable magnetic signs will not be used.
(O-1995-05; #O-2009-02)
DIVISION 3. - UNLAWFUL CONDUCT

2-17-34 - Compliance with Ordinance.
It shall be unlawful for any wrecker service, either as principal, agent or employee to use or operate upon any street or public road located in the unincorporated area of Glynn County any wrecker or car carrier as defined in this ordinance, without having complied with the applicable provisions of this ordinance.
2-17-35 - Monitoring Police Calls.
It shall be unlawful for the Operator of any wrecker or any person in behalf of the Operator to monitor the Glynn County Police Department's radio transmissions for the purpose of soliciting or obtaining business from any person at the scene of an accident.
2-17-36 - Solicitation for Business by County Employee Prohibited.
It shall be a violation of this ordinance for any on-duty county employees to solicit work for any wrecker service except as provided in the rotational call list system.
2-17-37 - Parking for Purpose of Soliciting Towing Work.
It shall be unlawful for the Operator of any wrecker to park on, obstruct or use any public right-of-way for purpose of soliciting the tow of any wrecked vehicles at the scene of an accident. Solicitation of towing work by the Operator or he occupant of a wrecker while parked on any road or street, including rights-of-way thereof is prohibited.
2-17-38 - Scene of an Accident.
It shall be unlawful for a Wrecker Operator to proceed to the scene of an accident without having been requested or notified to do so, as provided in Division 5 of this ordinance.
2-17-39—2-17-49 - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - INFORMATION

2-17-50 - Notification of Police Department Upon Removal of Vehicles at Request of Any Person other than Duty Police Officer.
The Operator of any wrecker removing a private motor vehicle which has been involved in an accident for another person other than a Glynn County Police Officer or an abandoned vehicle, shall report such action to the Glynn County Police Department along with the following information: (a) the place where the vehicle was transported to; (b) a description of the vehicle including the tag number and vehicle identification number; and (c) type of damage sustained by the vehicle. This report shall be made by the Wrecker Operator by telephone communication to the Glynn County Police Department within one hour after the removal of the vehicle. The Operator of the Wrecker shall be required to safeguard and promptly deliver to the Glynn County Police Department all valuables found in any towed or stored vehicles.
2-17-51 - Records.
Each wrecker service shall maintain a daily list of all vehicles towed and/or stored. This list shall contain detailed information as to the make, year, model, color, vehicle identification number, name of owner, purpose for towing, removing and/or storing of the vehicle, and the name of the operator that towed, removed and/or stored the vehicle. The records kept pursuant to this Section shall be retained for a period of two years and will be made available to the Glynn County Police Department for inspection and copying during normal business hours.
(O#2005-05; Amended 04/07/05)
DIVISION 5. - ROTATION CALL LIST

2-17-52 - Rotational Call List.
The Chief of Police, or his designated agent, shall prepare and maintain a Rotational Call list of qualified wrecker services who are engaged in the towing business in Glynn County on a regular basis and who meet the qualifications, standards and requirements enumerated in this ordinance. The Rotational Call list will be maintained by the Glynn County Communications Section and will list all Rotational wreckers by their assigned Glynn County Permit Number.
(O-1995-01)
2-17-53 - Use of Rotational Call List.
If, for any reason, it shall become necessary for the Glynn County Police Department to remove any vehicle from the public rights-of-way or from any other public places, the Glynn County Communications Officer on duty shall contact one of the wrecker services who have previously qualified for the Rotational Call List. All such calls shall be on a rotational basis by name and permit number of the Wrecker Service, provided, however, that if the owner or person in possession of a vehicle about to be removed, designates a wrecker service to be used, it shall be the duty of the investigating officer to inform the Communications Officer of this request. If a person in charge of the vehicle to be towed makes such a request or states a preference for a particular wrecker service, the Communications Officer will make a reasonable effort to call the requested wrecker service, provided the wrecker service is listed on the Rotational Call List, or the wrecker service has previously obtained a Certificate of Qualification from Chief of Police as having a Wrecker, as defined in this ordinance, that meets requirements of Section 2-17-54(b), (g), (h), (k), (l), (m), (n). Any wrecker service not on the Rotational Call List or holding a Certificate of Qualification, shall not be called by the Communications Officer nor allowed to tow a wrecked vehicle from the scene of an accident. In the event a wrecker service on the Rotational Call List is requested by owner or another person in possession of a vehicle, the answer of the request by a wrecker service will not be construed as interrupting that wrecker service's normal rotation position on the Rotational Call List. In no event shall an investigating officer undertake to call directly for a wrecker service, but all such calls shall be made through the Glynn County Communications Officer.
(O-1995-05)
2-17-54 - Qualification, Duties, etc.
In order for any Wrecker Service to be placed on Rotational Call List, and be licensed under the provisions of this ordinance, each Wrecker Service must comply with the following qualifications, standards and requirements of this ordinance at all times.
a.
The Wrecker Service shall have at least one light-duty or one heavy-duty wrecker in good operable working conditional at all times. Each Wrecker Service shall notify the police radio dispatcher whenever said service does not have a wrecker available for call or whenever said service does not have heavy-duty wrecker equipment to handle a particular type call requiring a heavy-duty wrecker.
(1)
Any Wrecker Service that fails to respond to a call for service from the Glynn County Police Department will be notified, in writing, by the Chief of Police of their suspension from the Rotational Call List except as otherwise stated in this subsection.
(2)
No Wrecker Service will be suspended from the Rotational Call List when they have notified Glynn County Police Communications, prior to a call for service, that their wrecker is out of service, out of Glynn County, or on a verifiable service call and within ten minutes of their destination.
(3)
Penalties for failure to respond without prior notification as required in this subsection are as follows:
(i)
First failure to respond—30 days suspension
(ii)
Second failure to respond—90 days suspension
(iii)
Third failure to respond—Removal from Rotational Call List
(4)
Any Wrecker Service removed from the Rotational Call List pursuant to this subsection shall not be eligible to again apply for placement on the Rotational Call List for a period of one year from the date of removal.
(5)
Any Wrecker Service may appeal their suspension or removal from the Rotational Call List using the procedures set forth in Section 2-17-60 of this ordinance.
b.
Each wrecker shall carry at all times when in service or use, a full complement of service items to include a fire extinguisher, chains, dollies, proper emergency reflectors (triangular in shape), and other equipment needed for lifting, extricating, or righting wrecked vehicles and the removal of said vehicles from the public rights-of-way by towing or carting. In addition, each wrecker shall be equipped with a broom, shovel and other necessary equipment to clear the traveled portions of the roadway.
c.
The Wrecker Service shall maintain and have immediate access to secured parking area where any towed vehicle may be safely stored. The parking (storage) area shall be secured at all times, and must in addition at all times comply with all applicable provisions of the Glynn County Zoning Ordinance pertaining to junk yards and outside storage areas including, but not limited to, section 719.3 and section 720.3. All vehicles shall be secured inside a locked enclosure or fenced lot. Storage lots shall have sufficient night lighting. There shall be posted at the entrance to the parking area, a sign, the minimum size of which shall be 24 inches by 24 inches, painted white with red letters, stating the towing charges, the storage rate per day and any additional information pertinent to the storage of vehicles. Nothing in this subsection shall exempt a wrecker service from compliance with all other applicable provisions of the Glynn County Zoning Ordinance.
d.
The Wrecker Service shall have at least one wrecker driver on duty for call at all times.
e.
The Wrecker Service shall at all times maintain at least one phone line in service to receive calls from the Glynn County Police Department.
f.
In order to be placed on the Rotational Call List, a Wrecker Service shall not have any ownership or financial interest in a wrecker owned, leased to or operated by any other Wrecker Service in the Rotational Call List.
g.
Wrecker Services shall maintain in full force and effect at all times the following types and amounts of insurance:
EXPAND
Type of Insurance Per Person Per Accident
(i) Bodily Injury $100,000.00 $300,000.00
(ii) Property Damage $100,000.00
  At the time a wrecker is registered under this ordinance, or at such other time as police chief may request, the Wrecker Service shall furnish to the Glynn County Police Department a copy of a Certificate of Insurance showing the amount of coverage, and expiration date of the insurance police.
h.
Each wrecker must be equipped with an amber strobe light as described by O.C.G.A. § 40-8-35. The Wrecker Service must maintain a strobe light permit as required by the Georgia Department of Motor Vehicle Safety. The amber strobe light shall only be activated when one of the following conditions exist:
1.
Loading or unloading a vehicle, debris, or other related material while at a motor vehicle crash scene;
2.
Assisting a motorist in need of vehicle repair while on a public roadway;
3.
While towing or transporting a vehicle or other material and traveling below the posted speed limit; or
4.
To warn motorists of a hazard or pending hazard on a public roadway or immediately adjacent to a public roadway.
i.
Each Wrecker Service must maintain two-way communications with its wreckers while a wrecker is away from the business premises of the Wrecker Service.
j.
The Wrecker Service shall accept only those requests for assistance from the Glynn County Police Department, which can be answered by the Wrecker Service within 25 minutes in accordance with posted speed limit and which it is capable of handling, taking into consideration the type of wrecker required to accomplish the tow.
k.
The Wrecker Service shall make available for inspection by the Glynn County Police Department all wreckers operated by it during normal business hours.
l.
All Wrecker Operators after being called to the scene of an accident for the purpose of removing a damaged vehicle, shall clean all the debris caused by the accident from the rights-of-way before leaving the scene. In the event two or more wreckers are called to the same accident, both Operators shall be equally responsible for the removing of all debris from the rights-of-way.
m.
The Wrecker Operator and his employees will not engage in any deceptive practices in order to obtain business from a prospective customer. If a Wrecker Operator or his employees quotes one fee and then charges a higher fee without the consent of the customer, the Wrecker Operator or his employee will be presumed to have engaged in a deceptive practice.
n.
Wrecker Service will not permit an individual to drive a wrecker unless the driver holds a valid operator's license of the class required by the State of Georgia.
o.
All wrecker operators as defined in Section 2-17-20 shall possess a current certification as a wrecker operator from a school recognized by the Federal Office of Motor Carriers. Any individual operating a wrecker on the County Rotational Call List shall be so certified. All operators will present their certification card upon the request of any person empowered to enforce this ordinance.
Operators who present their wrecker to the Glynn County Police Department for registration and/or inspection who do not possess a valid wrecker certification will have 90 days to obtain such certification or will be removed from the Rotational Call List until Operator presents Glynn County Police Department with proof of the required wrecker certification. It shall be a violation of this ordinance for any person to respond to any rotational call unless the person operating the tow vehicle has complied with this Section of the ordinance.
p.
All wrecker operators and their employees who operate a wrecker on the Rotational Call List will comply with all regulations of The Federal Office of Motor Carriers, Georgia Pubic Service Commission, Glynn County Ordinances and meet all permits, licenses and all other requirements of these agencies.
q.
In order to be placed on the Rotational Call List, a Wrecker Service shall not have as an owner, operator, or employee anyone that has been convicted of any felony offense within five years immediately preceding the date of registration. For the purpose of this Section, a conviction shall include a finding or verdict of guilty, plea of guilty, or a plea of nolo contendere in a criminal proceeding; further, a conviction shall include those instances where the adjudication of guilt or sentence is withheld or not entered pursuant to provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 42-8-60 through 42-8-64, relating to first offenders.
(O-1995-05; #O-1997-11; Amended 09/21/00; O#2000-18; O#2005-05; 04/07/05)
2-17-55 - Regulations.
The Chief of Police is hereby delegated the authority to develop rules and regulations for the operation of the Rotational Call List. The rules and regulations shall not become effective until approved by the Board of Commissioners.
2-17-56 - Rotational Call System for Calling Wreckers.
Purpose. To prevent the appearance of preferential treatment to commercial organizations which provide the frequently utilized services required by highway users.
Requirements. All participants in the Rotational Call List shall furnish the Glynn County Police Chief with a current certificate of liability insurance with limits as set forth in Glynn County Ordinance 2-17-54(g) naming Glynn County as an additional named insured.
All participants in the Rotational Call List shall furnish the Glynn County Police Chief in writing of any changes in the participants insurance coverage within three business days of any such changes. "Changes in insurance coverage" includes but is not limited to cancellations of coverage, changes in policy coverage limits, expiration dates, and named insured or beneficiaries.
All participants in the Rotational Call System shall have all wrecker equipped with a wheel lift, except for wreckers towing vehicles of 20,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or more and except for flat bed wreckers.
All participants in the Rotational Call System shall store vehicles towed by them but not taken to some other location at the owner's request. Vehicles towed by the wrecker service pursuant to a call from the Rotational Call List shall be available to the owner as set forth in this ordinance at all times within 30 minutes of a call from the County Police Department to allow the owner of the vehicle to reclaim same.
Method. Whenever a highway user requires wrecker service, the officer shall first request that the person desiring such service state the name of the organization he wishes to provide that service. If the person states a preference, the base station personnel will attempt to contact and dispatch that service. If unsuccessful in contacting the preferred service or if no preference is stated, the rotational list will be used.
Officers who call for any such services on their own authority shall not request any organization which is not on the rotation list nor direct that a specific establishment be called out of order unless he knows that the particular service required is only available through the organization which he specifies.
It is to be understood, however, that the citizen requesting service and/or the taxpayer are the ones who ultimately pay for these services, and poor quality services will not be tolerated. Officers shall report to their immediate supervisor the name of any service agency or individual who either renders poor service or is incapable of providing quality service because of inadequate equipment or personnel.
All wrecker services will be placed on a Rotational Call List by Glynn County Permit Number by the Glynn County Police Department. The Glynn County Communications Officers will dispatch requests for rotational wreckers by permit number from this list. New additions to the Rotational Call List will be placed on the bottom of the list and will be notified when their permit number rotates up.
Only wreckers displaying a Glynn County Permit Number will be allowed to respond to a rotational call. A wrecker service may operate more than one wrecker displaying the same Glynn County Permit Number, provided that each wrecker conforms to the requirements of this ordinance and is identified by the assigned wrecker service permit number.
Once placed on the Rotational Call List, it is the responsibility of each wrecker service to notify "in writing" the Glynn County Police Patrol Commander of all changes in service, including, but not limited to, changes in drivers, telephone number changes, access changes, change of ownership, etc.
Only the dispatched wrecker service displaying the dispatched Glynn County Permit Number will be allowed to respond to a rotational call. A wrecker service shall not substitute with another service, or refer a call for any reason. If the wrecker service notified is not able to respond to a call for any reason, the next permit number appearing on the list will be dispatched (regardless of ownership of the wrecker). A wrecker service that is not able to respond to a call will be placed on the bottom of the list.
The responding wrecker service or garage assumes responsibility of the towed vehicle at the time of tow-in. It may release vehicles not having police hold orders without the Police Department's authorization. Those vehicles with Police Department orders may not be released without written authorization from the Police Department prior to release. The towing and/or storing wrecker or garage company must notify the Police Department whenever a vehicle towed at the request of the Police Department is released.
When the wrecker service is requested to tow a vehicle by the police for any reason other than the owner's request, the tow truck driver and requesting police officer must take a joint property inventory of the motor vehicle prior to tow-in and must notate on a Vehicle Storage Receipt items visibly damaged or missing or stored in the vehicle. Both the tow truck driver and the requesting police officer must certify in writing that the joint property inventory is correct to the best of their knowledge.
The towing and/or storing wrecker or garage company will maintain the towed vehicle at the company location and will not move it without notifying the Police Department.
Documents required for release of a vehicle towed and/or stored at the Police Department's request are:
a.
Valid drivers license; and
b.
Vehicle title; or
c.
Current registration; or
d.
Other proof of right to possession.
This procedure is to be used in conjunction with all relevant existing departmental policies, procedures, rules and regulations.
(Ord. of 6/16/83; O-1995-01; O-1995-05; #O-1997-11; #O-2005-05; Amended 04/07/05)
2-17-57 - Maximum Charges Allowed.
No wrecker service shall charge more than the following fees for services provided when responding to a call received from the rotational call list:
The maximum vehicle towing charge anywhere in Glynn County, day or night, to a single location approved by the owner shall be $135.00.
The maximum fee for vehicle storage shall be $20.00 for each full continuous 24-hour period in which the vehicle is in storage, beginning when the vehicle is removed from the scene of an accident, or from the property where the tow otherwise begins, and ending when the vehicle owner or vehicle owner's designee offers or attempts to pick up the vehicle from storage and offers to pay the wrecker service's legitimate accrued charges. There shall be no storage fee for any vehicle storage lasting less than a full 24-hour period or for any partial 24-hour period. The time and date that the storage of the vehicle began and the release of the vehicle from storage shall be recorded on the tow invoices of all vehicles subject to a storing charge under this Section.
A reasonable rate may be charged for recovery by winching when recovery is: (1) over 25 feet from the edge of the roadway; or (2) out of water or marsh, and shall not include normal loading. To right an overturned vehicle shall be part of a normal tow and subject to the service charges set forth in this ordinance.
No additional charges for any other service relating to the towing or storage of a vehicle resulting from a response to a rotational call list request shall be allowed. The wrecker service charges set forth herein are the maximum fees allowed. The wrecker operator may charge less for any service should he choose to do so.
Charges for any tow of a vehicle weighing 14,500 pounds or more are not limited by this ordinance.
(O-1995-05; O#2005-05; Amended #O-2005-05; 04/07/05; #O-2017-13; 12/07/17)
2-17-58—2-17-59 - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - ENFORCEMENT

2-17-60 - Removal or Suspension from Rotational Call List.
a.
Any Wrecker Service violating the provisions of this ordinance or any other county ordinance or state or federal law may be removed or suspended from the Rotational Call List by the Chief of Police of the Glynn County Police Department. Any Wrecker Service whose name has been removed or suspended from the Rotational Call List may file an appeal, in writing, from said decision to the County Administrator or the County Administrator's designee, within five days from the date the Wrecker Service is advised of the decision of the Chief of Police removing or suspending its name from the Rotational Call List. The filing of such an appeal will delay implementation of any decision adverse to the wrecker service until a decision is made on that appeal.
The County Administrator, or the County Administrator's designee, shall give the Wrecker Service at least five days notice in advance of the date of the public hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the Wrecker Service will remain on the Rotational Call List or the suspension upheld. Upon hearing, the County Administrator or the County Administrator's designee, may affirm, reverse, vacate or modify the decision of the Chief of Police. A ruling by the Glynn County Administrator, or the County Administrator's designee, shall be final, and shall be submitted to the customer in writing by certified mail.
b.
In lieu of removing the Wrecker Service from the Rotational Call List for minor violations of the provisions of the ordinance, the Chief of Police may suspend the Wrecker Service for a period not to exceed 30 days, during which period of time, the Wrecker Service under suspension shall not receive rotational calls from the police dispatcher, except at the request of individual owner or custodian of the automobile. At the end of this suspension period, the Wrecker Service shall be placed at the bottom of the Rotational Call List as it then exists.
2-17-61 - Speeding to an Accident.
If an operator is caught speeding to the scene of an accident, or driving a Wrecker in a reckless manner, as defined under the laws of the State of Georgia, the Wrecker Operator will be suspended from the Rotational Call List for a period of 30 days by the Glynn County Police Chief. If the Wrecker Operator or his agents or employees is charged with a second violation of laws of the State of Georgia involving speeding or reckless driving while going to the scene of an accident, the Chief of Police shall revoke the registration of any Wrecker Service.
2-17-62 - Revocation of Registration.
a.
The Chief of Police after a thorough investigation, shall remove registration of any Wrecker Service on any of the following grounds: (1) If the registration was procured by a fraudulent conduct or false statement of a material fact; (2) If the Wrecker Service or Operator proceeds to the scene of an accident in violation of this ordinance; (3) If the Wrecker Service or operator uses a police radio to obtain information as to the location of the scene of an accident; (4) If the Wrecker Service has been guilty of a violation of the provision of this ordinance for a second time. Prior to the revocation of the registration of any Wrecker Service, the Police Chief shall conduct a hearing within 30 days from the date of his decision to revoke a registration. The Wrecker Service shall be given at least ten days notice of the date of the hearing, together with a detailed list of all violations alleged against the Wrecker Service by the Chief of Police. Upon hearing the facts in which the Wrecker Service may present evidence, the Chief of Police may find alleged violation or violations have not been proven, in which event no further action will be taken.
b.
Such revocation shall terminate all authority and permission granted by the registration to the Wrecker Service. Any person whose registration has been revoked shall not be eligible to again apply for a registration for a period of one year from the date of revocation.
c.
Any person whose registration has been revoked by the Chief of Police may appeal in writing to the Glynn County Administrator or the County Administrator's designee, within 24 days of the decision of the Chief of Police. The County Administrator or the County Administrator's designee shall have authority upon the hearing of the appeal to reverse, vacate or modify the order of revocation. A ruling by the Glynn County Administrator, or the County Administrator's designee, shall be final, and shall be submitted to the customer in writing by certified mail.
(O#2005-05; Amended 04/07/05)
2-17-63—2-17-69 - Reserved.
2-17-70 - Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this ordinance; any person, firm or corporation committing any offense made unlawful herein; any person, firm or corporation operating a Wrecker Service in the unincorporated area of Glynn County without having first obtained a registration, as herein provided, shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in Section 2-1-10 of Code of Ordinances of Glynn County. Each day's continuance of a violation shall be considered a separate offense.
Each wrecker service shall maintain a daily list of all vehicles towed and/or stored. This list shall contain detailed information as to the make, year, model, color, vehicle identification number, name of owner, and purpose for towing, removing and/or storing of the vehicle. The records kept pursuant to this Section shall be retained for a period of two years and will be made available to the Glynn County Police Department for inspection and copying during normal business hours.
2-17-71—2-17-79 - Reserved.
