ARTICLE IV. - MECHANICAL CODE

2-5-60 - Scope.
There is hereby adopted and prescribed for Glynn County, Georgia, a mechanical code which shall apply to and be effective only within that area of Glynn County lying outside the corporate limits of the City of Brunswick, and all references hereinafter made to the application of said mechanical code of Glynn County shall mean the area of said county lying outside the corporate limits of the City of Brunswick.
2-5-61 - International Mechanical Code Adopted and Incorporated by Reference.
The mechanical code adopted and prescribed for Glynn County is that code contained and identified as the International Mechanical Code, 2006 Edition With Georgia Amendments (hereinafter referred to as the "Mechanical Code"). Three copies of said code are filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the Glynn County Building Official, Glynn County, Georgia. Reference is hereby had to said mechanical code contained in said publication and the same is made a part of this ordinance and incorporated herein by reference, and shall have the same force and effect as though set out verbatim in this ordinance. When the International Mechanical Code is amended and such amendment is adopted by the State of Georgia, that amendment shall be automatically adopted by Glynn County excepting only those portions specifically deleted, modified or amended by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-62 - Application of Mechanical Code.
The provisions of this code shall apply to the installation of mechanical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and/or appurtenances thereto, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air conditioning and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other energy-related systems.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-63 - Administration and Enforcement.
The administration and enforcement of this ordinance by the Board of Commissioners of Glynn County, herein referred to as Commissioners, shall be through the Glynn County Building Official, herein identified as Building Official, his assistant or assistants.
2-5-64 - Duties of Building Official.
a.
It shall be the duty of the Building Official to enforce the provisions of the Mechanical Code and to make the inspections and tests required thereunder. The tests required hereunder shall be prepared by the installer and made by the Building Official at a time prearranged.
b.
The Building Official and his authorized assistants or representatives shall carry sufficient identification and be prepared to exhibit the same before entering any premises for the purpose of inspecting any mechanical work at such times as may be required to ensure compliance with the provisions of this ordinance.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-65 - Conformity to Mechanical Code.
All installations, repairs, and alterations of mechanical work in Glynn County shall be performed, from the effective date of this ordinance, in accordance with the provisions of the Mechanical Code as adopted herein.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-66 - Permit Fees.
The permit fee for any mechanical work not covered by an all-inclusive building permit fee shall be $30.00 per permit.
(a)
Application fees for variance/appeal to provisions of the Mechanical Code shall be $75.00 dollars per application.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-67 - Fee for Reinspection.
In case it becomes necessary to make a reinspection of a heating, ventilating, air conditioning or refrigeration system, or boiler installation, the installer of such equipment shall pay a reinspection fee of $20.00.
2-5-68 - Violation and Punishment.
Any person, firm, corporation, or agent who shall violate any of the requirements of this ordinance and the provisions of the Mechanical Code, upon conviction thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor under the provisions of O.C.G.A. ยง 36-13-12.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-69 - Preventing Continuation of Unlawful Mechanical Installations.
In case any installation, maintenance, extension, or alteration of any mechanical work is made or is proposed to be made in violation of this ordinance, the Board of Commissioners, Glynn County, Georgia, in addition to other available remedies, may institute injunction or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful installation, maintenance, extension, or alteration of mechanical work in Glynn County.
