Chapter 28 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - Purpose.
This chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the general health and welfare of the county by providing for the proper, efficient, and sanitary disposal of waste.
(Ord. No. 071494A, § 100, 7-14-1994; Ord. of 12-13-2001)
Sec. 28-2. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known as the "Solid Waste Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 071494A, § 200, 7-14-1994; Ord. of 12-13-2001)
Sec. 28-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this regulation, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Collection area means an area provided or designated by the county to be used for the collection and disposal of garbage and solid waste and/or for the location of collection containers.
Collection container means a container provided by the county and placed in the unincorporated area thereof to be used for the collection and disposal of certain waste defined herein.
Collection container waste means garbage, rubbish, refuse of any and all types regardless of origin, including household, business and commercial garbage and trash, provided that the same does not exceed four cubic feet in area and does not exceed three feet in length in any dimension. The term "collection container waste" shall also, in all instances, exclude leaves, limbs, bushes, trees, roots, dead animals, appliances, equipment, bed springs, mattresses, furniture, construction wastes including asbestos, bricks, blocks, rocks, lumber, asphalt, cement, concrete, concrete products or waste, roofing, sheetrock, tires, motors, engines, chemical wastes, scrap metal, fence wire, vehicles or parts thereof, as well as refused wastes as defined herein.
County shall be deemed to refer to the area of the county outside the corporate limits of the Town of Rayle, Town of Tignall, and City of Washington.
Person shall be deemed to mean any entity, person, firm, partnership, corporation or unincorporated association.
Refused waste means waste that cannot be lawfully accepted and disposed of by the county transfer station or recycling program given its permit and state and federal regulations at the time. The term "refused waste" includes, but is not limited to, asbestos, tires, chemicals, liquids, oil, fuel, bio-medical waste, lead-acid batteries, regulated wastes and hazardous wastes.
Road means and includes any road, street, highway, alley, lane, court, and other thoroughfare, however described or designated.
Waste means garbage, rubbish, refuse of any and all types regardless of origin, including household garbage and trash, leaves, limbs, bushes, trees, roots, dead animals, appliances, equipment, bed springs, mattresses, furniture business and including business trash and commercial wastes, construction wastes including asbestos, bricks, blocks, rocks, lumber, asphalt, cement, concrete, concrete products or waste, roofing, sheetrock, motors, engines, chemical wastes, industrial or commercial waste or rubbish, scrap metal, fence wire, vehicles or parts thereof and other like items. The term "waste" shall include the terms "collection container waste" and "refused waste."
(Ord. No. 071494A, § 300, 7-14-1994; Ord. of 12-13-2001)
Sec. 28-4. - Administration and enforcement.
(a)
The sheriff or deputy or a designated representative of the board of commissioners is hereby granted and shall hereafter have the power and authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection and disposal of garbage and solid waste in the county.
(b)
Any person violating this article shall be tried before the magistrate court for the county.
(c)
Upon conviction, a violation of this article may be punished according to section 1-9, general penalty.
(Ord. No. 071494A, § 400, 7-14-1994; Ord. of 12-13-2001)
Sec. 28-5. - Proper waste disposal required.
(a)
No person shall dispose of any waste within the bounds of the county except in compliance with this article and/or state law, rules and regulations.
(b)
Any person desiring to dispose of any waste, excluding refused waste, shall take the same to the county landfill during normal operating hours and dispose of the same as directed by the county employees on duty. In the alternative or in addition thereto, any person desiring to dispose of collection container waste, as defined herein, shall have the option of disposing the same in an approved collection container at a collection site within the county.
(Ord. No. 071494A, § 500, 7-14-1994; Ord. of 12-13-2001)
Sec. 28-6. - Certain acts prescribed.
(a)
Any person desiring to transport any waste upon the public roads or thoroughfares in the county, if the same is of a character or substance which is likely to be blown, thrown, slung or deposited from the motor vehicle onto the public rights-of-way, shall secure the waste by containers, tarpaulin, or other device in such fashion as to effectively prevent such deposit on the public rights-of-way. The responsibility to secure the waste shall be applicable alike to the owner of the motor vehicle and the operator thereof. Failure to secure all waste shall be a violation of this article.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of waste generated or originated beyond the boundaries of the county in any collection container in the county, or at the county transfer station (except when authorized by a signed contract with the county) or elsewhere within the boundaries of the county.
(1)
This shall not limit the power of the board of county commissioners to contract with other governmental entities or other persons for waste disposal in the county.
(2)
This shall not limit the ability of a property owner to dispose of his waste on his private property or in any duly permitted private landfill or solid waste facility.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any waste at any collection area by placing the same about or around the collection container. All collection container waste must be placed within the container.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any waste by dumping, depositing or disposing of the same by placement upon any road or upon private property not belonging to the party disposing of the same.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge in or about any collection container. This shall include climbing in any collection container, removing, examining, or sifting through any of the contents thereof.
(f)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or dispose in any county collection container any type of waste defined in section 28-3 under collection container waste as excluded. Specifically excluded items are leaves, limbs, bushes, trees, roots, dead animals, appliances, equipment, bed springs, mattresses, furniture, construction wastes including asbestos, bricks, blocks, rocks, lumber, asphalt, cement, concrete, concrete products or waste, roofing, sheetrock, tires, motors, engines, chemical wastes, scrap metal, fence wire, vehicle or parts thereof as well as refused wastes as defined in section 28-3. Excluded items shall also include any items identified by the state or U.S. Government as items the county is prohibited from handling.
(Ord. No. 071494A, § 600, 7-14-1994; Ord. of 12-13-2001)
Secs. 28-7—28-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - YARD TRIMMINGS

Sec. 28-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other non-manufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term "municipal solid waste" includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludge or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing and approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. No. 091296A, § 1(1A), 9-12-1996)
Sec. 28-32. - Placement and disposal prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the county.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the county.
(c)
This article shall be applicable only to the unincorporated area and within any municipality which has not adopted a substantially similar ordinance.
(Ord. No. 091296A, § 1(1B), 9-12-1996)
Sec. 28-33. - Sorting, storing, composting and collecting procedure.
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stored in the following manner:
(1)
State law requires local governments to restrict sorting and storing yard trimmings in a manner that facilitates collection, composting or other handling and requires yard trimmings to be beneficially reused or recycled to the maximum extent feasible.
(2)
The recommended hierarchy for handling yard trimmings in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-21(g) provides for implementing these requirements.
(Ord. No. 091296A, § 1(1C), 9-12-1996)
Sec. 28-34. - Penalties.
(a)
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(b)
Any person, corporation, partnership or other entity violating this article shall be tried before the magistrate court of the county.
(Ord. No. 091296A, § 1(1D), 9-12-1996)
