Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Animals generally, O.C.G.A. title 4; Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
At large means off the premises of the owner and not under restraint, supervision or control.
Court means the magistrate court of the county.
Humane manner means care of an animal to include protection from injury, adequate coolness and heat, ventilation, sanitary shelter, wholesome food and water which are consistent with the normal requirements and breeding habits of the animal's size, species and breed.
Kennel means an establishment kept for the purpose of breeding, selling or boarding animals or those engaged in training animals.
Owner, caretaker orpossessor means any person having a right of property of an animal, or who keeps or harbors an animal or who has it in his care, or acts as its custodian or who permits an animal to remain on or about his premises.
(Ord. of 11-10-2000, § 1)
Sec. 6-2. - Livestock on public ways.
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally allow or permit any horses, cattle, sheep, goats or other livestock to run at large on public roads or streets or to be staked so that they can go upon the streets.
(Ord. of 11-10-2000, § 2)
State Law reference— Livestock running at large or straying, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 6-3. - Cruelty to animals.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the owner, caretaker or possessor of any animal to fail to provide shelter, food and water at all times to the extent that the animal suffers, dies or is injured as a result of such neglect.
(b)
When harnessed or restrained, all animals and fowl shall be harnessed or restrained in such a manner that will not cause injury to the animal.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any cruel act on any animal; nor shall any person harm, maim, or kill any animal or attempt to do so, except that a person may:
(1)
Defend his person or property, or the person or property of another, from injury or damage being caused or threatened by an animal; or
(2)
Kill any animal causing or threatening injury or damage to any livestock or poultry.
(d)
The method used for killing the animal shall be designed to be as humane as reasonably possible under the circumstances. A person who humanely kills, or injures in a good faith attempt to humanely kill, an animal under the circumstances of subsection (c) of this section shall incur no liability for such death or injury. Specifically, shooting an animal with a firearm under the circumstances of subsection (c) of this section in a good faith effort to humanely kill shall be considered "humane" regardless of whether said shooting results in death or injury.
(Ord. of 11-10-2000, § 3)
State Law reference— Cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4.
Sec. 6-4. - Prohibited conditions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any owner, caretaker, possessor to allow their animal to run at large or to go upon public property or property of another if said animal is not under the control, restraint or supervision of said owner, caretaker or possessor or if the presence is not authorized by the owner of said real property.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to release any animal on any property, public or private, with the intention of abandoning the animal.
(Ord. of 11-10-2000, § 4)
Sec. 6-5. - Vaccination of animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any animal which has not been vaccinated against rabies as required by the rules and regulations established in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 31-19-5.
(Ord. of 11-10-2000, § 5)
Sec. 6-6. - Animals running at large; impoundment.
(a)
Any member of the public shall be authorized to apprehend any animal found running at-large in the county. Said animal may be delivered to the Washington-Wilkes Animal Shelter.
(b)
The impounded animal shall be handled in accordance with the polices of the shelter.
(c)
If any animal found running at large cannot be safely taken and impounded, said animal may be slain by any law enforcement officer or animal control officer.
(Ord. of 11-10-2000, § 6)
Sec. 6-7. - General enforcement.
(a)
The magistrate's court of the county shall have jurisdiction over violations of this section and all procedures for enforcement of this section shall be as provided in O.C.G.A. title 15, chapter 10, article 4 (O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.). Complaints of violations of any provision contained herein shall be brought before the magistrate's court on a citation issued by the code enforcement officer, the animal control officer or by a law enforcement office. Citations shall meet all the official requirements as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, as amended.
(b)
Any person who violates the provisions contained herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished according to section 1-9, general penalty.
(Ord. of 11-10-2000, § 7)
