ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— County governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; public officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 45-1-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-44. - Exercise of governmental authority.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code or by state law, the governmental powers of the county shall be exercised by the board of commissioners in the manner provided by state law, by the legislative act creating the board of commissioners (2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 142), page 4272), by general state law, and by the provisions of this chapter, all as may be amended from time to time.
State Law reference— Jurisdiction of county governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1.
Sec. 2-45. - Composition of board; qualifications; oath; bond; vacancies; compensation.
The county board of commissioners shall consist of five members, including a chairperson and four commissioners, as provided in the act creating the board (2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 142), page 4272). Each member shall meet the qualifications provided in the act and, before entering upon his duties as a board member, shall take the oath and provide the bond required by the act. Each member shall receive the compensation provided in the act. Vacancies in office shall be filled as provided in the act.
State Law reference— Qualifications for public office, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1 et seq.; official oaths of public officers, O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1 et seq.; official bonds of public officers, O.C.G.A. § 45-4-1 et seq.; vacancies in office of county governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-21; compensation of county governing authorities and chief executive officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-24;
cost of living or general performance based increases in compensation of county governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-28 et seq.; periodic increases in compensation of county governing board members established by general or local law, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-29.
Sec. 2-46. - Authority of board.
The board of commissioners shall have all power conferred on it by the act establishing the board, state statute, and state constitution, as they may be amended from time to time.
Sec. 2-47. - Chairperson of the board.
The duties of the chairperson shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Calling meetings of the board;
(2)
Presiding at meetings of the board;
(3)
Representing the county government at ceremonial functions;
(4)
Submitting motions to the board of commissioners for action;
(5)
Appointing members and chairmen to all committees of the board with the approval of the board of commissioners; and
(6)
Performing such other duties as shall be delegated to the chairperson by the board of commissioners or as provided by law or ordinance.
Sec. 2-48. - Training costs for newly elected commissioners.
(a)
No county funds nor any government funds controlled, managed, or accounted by the governing authority of the county shall be used for the training of any newly elected commissioner prior to the final selection of the candidate for said office, unless such training is specifically provided by law.
(b)
Any candidate for the board of county commissioners that has been elected for office and has no opposition prior to the beginning of the term of office for which the candidate has been elected shall be approved for training prior to taking the oath of office, and evidence of such approval shall be provided to any agency or organization providing such training.
(c)
No county funds shall be expended for travel or training except as approved by the board of commissioners.
(d)
Any county commissioner serving an existing term of office shall continue training and certification as determined for that training year, and in accordance with then existing guidelines of the board.
(Res. No. 2008-36, 8-21-2008)
Secs. 2-49—2-69. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MEETINGS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Open meetings and notice of meetings required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; meetings of governing bodies of counties and municipalities to be open, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1; conduct of members of local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-62A-1 et seq.; procedure for closing meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-4.

Sec. 2-70. - Regular meetings; calling special meetings; open to public.
(a)
Regular meetings. The board of commissioners shall hold regular meetings at least once per month at the times and places designated by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Special meetings. The chairperson or any three members of the board of commissioners may convene the board whenever the chairperson or the three members deem that the public business demands it.
(c)
Work sessions. The board of commissioners may conduct work sessions at its pleasure for the purpose of reviewing matter brought to its attention, which shall be open to the public, provided that the board shall hold at least one such session per month.
(d)
Open to public. All meetings at which official actions are to be taken shall be open to the public.
(Res. No. 81-1, § 1, 4-1-1981)
Sec. 2-71. - Rules of procedure.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the most current edition of Roberts' Rules of Order shall govern the conduct of the board meetings. Meeting procedure shall be as follows:
(1)
Call to order. The chairperson, or in the chairperson's absence, the vice-chairperson, shall take the chair at the hour appointed for any regular, temporarily adjourned, special or called meeting, and shall immediately call the board to order.
(2)
Agenda. It shall, upon consultation with each of the members of the board of commissioners, be the responsibility of the county manager to create the agenda for each meeting of the board of commissioners. Any citizen who desires to have an item placed on the agenda shall provide an original and ten copies of the request and all supporting documentation therefor, not less than five working days prior to a regularly scheduled work session.
(3)
Attendance record. The county clerk shall enter in the minutes the names of commissioners who are present and those who are absent.
(4)
Quorum. A majority of all the members elected to the board of commissioners shall constitute a quorum at any regular or special meeting, and an affirmative vote of a majority of such number shall be sufficient to permit the conduct of all business. A majority of the board is comprised of three or more members.
(5)
Approval of minutes. Unless a reading of the minutes of a meeting is requested by a commissioner, such minutes may be approved without a reading if the county manager has previously furnished each member with a copy not later than the Friday preceding the next meeting.
(6)
Reports by committees. Any business coming before the board may be referred to a committee of one or more commissioners or to a department head for further study. It shall be the duty of each such committee to make a timely report on matters referred to it.
(7)
Public comment on agenda items. Any person not a member of the board of commissioners who desires to address the board on any item on the agenda for the instant meeting shall first secure permission of the presiding officer to do so, and shall then stand, step forward, give such person's name and address in an audible tone of voice for the record, and direct such person's remarks to the board of commissioners as a body rather than to any particular member, limiting such remarks to three minutes, unless a different time period is authorized by the chairperson.
(8)
Recording vote. The yeas and nays of the board of commissioners present shall be recorded on the minutes on any vote taken.
State Law reference— Meeting agenda required, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-72. - Minutes.
The county manager shall appoint a county clerk, who shall keep a proper and accurate book of minutes. The book of minutes of the board of commissioners shall contain all the acts, orders, and proceedings of the board of commissioners in chronological order. The minutes books of the board of commissioners shall be open to the public for inspection at all times during regular office hours; and certified copies of any entries in the minutes books shall be furnished by the clerk to any person requesting same upon payment of a reasonable fee, to be paid into the county treasury as are other funds, to be assessed by the board of commissioners in an amount sufficient to defray the cost of preparing same.
State Law reference— Minutes of county governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-25.
Sec. 2-73. - Adoption of ordinances, resolutions, contracts and agreements.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, all ordinances, resolutions, contracts and agreements of the county shall be prepared, approved, introduced and adopted in the following manner:
(1)
Preparation. All ordinances and resolutions shall be prepared by the county attorney. No ordinance shall be prepared for presentation to the board of commissioners unless ordered or requested by the county manager or by the county attorney on the attorney's own initiative.
(2)
Administrative staff approval. All ordinances, resolutions, contract documents and agreements, before presentation to the board, shall have been reviewed as to form and legality by the county attorney.
(3)
Adoption. The adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or other action of the board shall require a majority affirmance of a quorum of the board of commissioners.
(4)
Numbering. Each ordinance and resolution adopted by the board of commissioners shall be assigned a consecutive number, according to which it will be referred, and entered in the minutes of the board of commissioners without including the complete text of each resolution. The county clerk shall be responsible for preparation and proper filing of the minutes and resolutions.
(Res. No. 81-1, § 3, 4-1-1981)
Sec. 2-74. - Storage of county documents.
Each resolution, contract, or similar instrument approved by the board of commissioners and entered by reference in the minutes shall be filed in an appropriate place in the office of the board of commissioners. The county clerk is authorized to establish a uniform filing system for the office of the board of commissioners, and, by supplemental notation made in the minutes, to indicate the file location of the original of each such resolution, contract, or similar instrument.
(Res. No. 81-1, § 4, 4-1-1981)
Secs. 2-75—2-91. - Reserved.
