ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1. - INTRODUCTION

Sec. 27-1.1.1. - Title and authority.
These regulations may be cited as the "Land Use Code of Lumpkin County, Georgia."
Chapter 27 is adopted under authority of Chapter 9, section 2, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the constitution of the State of Georgia, and pursuant to the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. 36, § 36-66-1 et seq., and other applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
Sec. 27-1.1.2. - Purpose and intent.
1.
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Lumpkin County and the public generally. To that end, these regulations are made in conformance with the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of Lumpkin County, and with consideration for each activity. These regulations are intended to:
A.
Promote the methodic and beneficial development and expansion of the county;
B.
Preserve the property rights of all property owners;
C.
Retain and enhance the county's most significant values: the quality of the rural landscape and environment, the diversity of its population, the small-town character, historic features, high-quality services, and strong participation by residents in government;
D.
Promote efficient investment in public infrastructure; and
E.
Protect environmentally sensitive and agriculturally vulnerable lands, preserve scenic vistas, views and meadowlands, and provide landscaping and other elements of an aesthetic nature.
2.
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any valid easement, covenant, or deed restriction.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
Sec. 27-1.1.3. - Applicability and exemptions.
1.
This chapter applies to all lands within the unincorporated areas of the county. No new development shall occur, no new structure may be constructed, occupied, or new land use implemented except in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
2.
This chapter shall not prohibit the continuation of any lawful use or uses of any land or building legally existing at the time this chapter became effective provided it complies with the provision of section 27-9.1.2 concerning nonconforming uses below.
3.
The provisions of this chapter shall not affect the validity of any lawfully issued and effective permits or land use approvals if:
A.
The commercial development activity or building construction authorized by the permit or land use approval commenced prior to the effective date of the board of commissioner's 210-day moratorium on commercial permitting in Agricultural Preservation, Rural Places and Residential Growth Character Areas, or amendment thereto or within 12 months of issuance of the permit or issuance of the land use approval, whichever is later; and
B.
The commercial development activity or building construction authorized by the permit or by an approved land use in all other character areas was not mentioned in the 210-day moratorium: Industrial, Neighborhood Village, Community Village, Commerce Corridor and Gateway Corridor or commenced prior to the effective date of this chapter or amendment thereto or within 12 months of issuance of the permit or issuance of the land use approval, whichever is later; and
C.
The commercial development activity or building construction continues without interruption (except because of war or natural disaster or other force majeure as determined by the board of commissioners) until the development or construction is complete.
If the permit expires without proper renewal, any further development or construction on that site shall occur only pursuant to a new permit issued in conformance with the current requirements of this chapter in effect on the date of the new permit was approved.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
Sec. 27-1.1.4. - Conflicting laws.
1.
If provisions in this chapter overlap or conflict with other requirements found in this chapter, the more stringent regulation shall apply and the specific provision shall prevail over the general.
2.
If provisions in this chapter overlap or conflict with requirements or regulations found in other parts of the Lumpkin County Code outside of this chapter, the provisions of chapter 1, section 1-17 of the Code of Lumpkin County shall apply.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
Sec. 27-1.1.5. - Severability.
If any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this chapter is declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this chapter.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
Secs. 27-1.1.6—27-1.1.9. - Reserved.
CHAPTER 2. - CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE AND DEFINITIONS

Sec. 27-1.2.1. - Rules for construction of language.
1.
The particular shall control the general.
2.
In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this ordinance and any caption, illustration, summary table, or illustrative table, the text shall control.
3.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word "may" is permissive.
4.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
5.
All public officials, bodies, and agencies to which reference is made are those of Lumpkin County unless otherwise indicated.
6.
The word "County" or "Lumpkin County" shall mean the area of jurisdiction of Lumpkin County, Georgia, excluding the City of Dahlonega.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
Sec. 27-1.2.2. - Definitions.
Except when definitions are specifically included in the text, words in the text of this ordinance shall be interpreted in accordance with the provisions set forth in this section. Where words have not been defined, the standard dictionary definition shall prevail. In cases of conflicting definitions, the planning director shall be authorized to define any word or interpret any definition. Such definition or interpretation by the planning director be appealed through the planning commission appeal process outlined in section 27-7.1.10.
Accessory dwelling: a secondary, subordinate residential dwelling that is attached to or detached from and located on the same lot as a principal residential unit.
Accessory structure: a secondary, subordinate structure that is detached from and located on the same principal structure.
Accessory activity: a secondary use that is different from the primary use of a property. An accessory use is of a lesser scope and scale than the principal use.
Activity: the performance of a function or operation which constitutes the use of the land.
Agriculture: growing, harvesting, or storing of products of the field or orchard, including growing plants, sod, and trees for sale; the production of horticultural, dairy, poultry, eggs and apiarian products, feeding, breeding, or managing livestock, poultry, or other commonly commercially produced animals or producing for such animals.
Attached: buildings which share one or more common walls with other buildings. As pertains to residential activity, dwelling units may also be considered attached when sharing structures in a manner other than just common walls, except in Planned Cluster Developments.
Building: a fully enclosed structure having a roof supported by columns, walls, or cantilevers.
Buffer: portion of a lot set aside as open space and/or for visual screening purposes to separate uses on adjacent or nearby properties and ameliorate the negative impacts a land use may have on surrounding properties. Types of buffers discussed in this chapter include:
Fence buffer: a barrier, railing, or other upright structure, typically of wood or wire, where an area of ground is used to mark a boundary or control access, kept in good repair to ensure its continued functionality.
Opaque or visual buffer: a buffer primarily utilized for screening and buffering for the purposes of eliminating the view of any element of structure or use that is intended to be unseen.
Vegetative buffer: a buffer of trees and shrubs that provide aesthetic enhancements to the accompanying land use.
Dark sky compliant: when an outdoor lighting fixture passes the International Dark Sky Association (IDA) fixture seal of approval program. Purpose is to limit the amount of blue light during the night time and limit light trespassing and light pollution.
Detached building: a building or structure which is physically separated and not dependent on any other building or structure for structural support or enclosure.
Dwelling: a building, or portion thereof, designed exclusively for residential occupancy, including single dwellings, duplexes, and multiple dwelling units, but not including transient occupancy.
Family subdivision: the division of a lot into no more than three additional lots for the purpose of sale or as a gift to a member, or members, of the immediate family of the property owner. An immediate family member is defined as any person who is a natural or legally defined child, stepchild, grandchild, spouse, sibling, or parent of the property owner. The property owner is required to have owned the property for at least two years prior to filing the family subdivision plat. This is an allowed subdivide, reviewed and approved by the planning director or designated representative.
Floor area ratio (FAR): a measure of the density of the site being developed generated by dividing the building area by the parcel area, using the same units.
Greenspace: protected land and water, including agricultural and forestry land, that is in its undeveloped, natural state.
Gross acreage: total area of land confined within the property boundaries, including those which are permanently under water or subject to inundation, or which are contained in an easement or grant of use other than existing publicly dedicated road rights-of-way.
Heavy industrial: intensive industrial land uses that have potential for significant negative impacts on the surrounding area and that could be potentially dangerous to health, safety, or general welfare if located near residential development. This includes any use that emits hazardous or noxious fumes or other discharges or that cause noticeable odors. Examples of heavy industrial uses include, but are not limited to:
(a)
Animal slaughtering and processing (5,000 square feet or greater);
(b)
Rendering or refining of fats and oils;
(c)
Leather and hide tanning and finishing, except taxidermy;
(d)
Paper manufacturing other than finished stationery products;
(e)
Petroleum and coal products refining or manufacturing;
(f)
Mills (textile and paper);
(g)
Junk, salvage, and scrap yards;
(h)
Waste management or disposal services;
(i)
Quarries;
(j)
Asphalt and cement plants;
(k)
Processing of sauerkraut, vinegar or yeast;
(l)
Wood preservation;
(m)
Bulk storage of petroleum, natural gas or other flammable gasses or liquids greater than 100,000 gallons, other than when it is for direct use or retail sale on site; and
(n)
Environmentally hazardous uses that require a section 313 permit under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (commonly referred to as the Clean Water Act), 33 USC 1251 et seq.
Industrialized building: Any structure or component thereof which is designed and constructed in compliance with the state minimum standards codes and is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
Landscaped strip: a land area located within the boundary of a lot and required to be set aside and used for landscaping upon which only limited encroachments are authorized.
Light industrial: wholesaling or warehousing, as well as fabrication, manufacturing, assembly, or processing of goods in such a way that is not likely to have significant impacts on neighboring properties through the production of smoke, odor, dust, noise, vibrations, or any other impacts. Examples of light industrial include but are not limited to, light manufacturing, such as medical equipment, signs, sports and athletic goods, computer and electronics; wholesale trade; and warehouse and storage.
Livestock (commercial): domestic or farmed animals raised for profit. This use falls under the activity definition of Animal Operations.
Livestock (personal): animals raised for personal use, not held as assets or sold in commercial operations.
Manufactured homes: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems contained herein. Such term includes any structure which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size requirement and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.).
Master planned development: a planned development employing creativity and imagination in the planning and development or redevelopment of large tracts of land for various uses and activities associated with a planned community under one master plan that may include a mix of land use types at different levels of intensity.
Mixed-use subdivisions: a development that combines residential uses with commercial or institutional uses.
Multi-family residential: structures containing three or more single family dwelling that are constructed for multiple-family use, such as apartments, dormitories, or condominiums.
New development: construction, land disturbing activities, structural development, or other activities that significantly change the use or character of a parcel of land including the expansion of an existing building or other structure, or the creation of impervious surfaces on a previously undeveloped site that commenced after the adoption of this chapter of the Lumpkin County Code of Ordinances or after the adoption or amendment of the relevant provisions.
Nonconforming use: any structure or land use that is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter of the Lumpkin County Code of Ordinances or any subsequent amendments thereto.
Outdoor storage: the keeping of any goods, material, supplies, merchandise, or items for repair (including vehicles) in the same outdoor location for more than 48 hours.
Parcel: real property shown on the local tax rolls of Lumpkin County.
Performance standards: requirements imposed upon activities based on their road access category, development category, acreage, buffer and setback, screening requirements, and conditional uses.
Place of worship: building, including a church, mosque, temple, or synagogue, used primarily as a place of public or private worship on a permanent basis.
Principal activity: is the primary use of a property.
Principal building: a building which contains the principal activity or use located on the parcel on which the building is situated.
Produce stand: any structure, stand, trailer, or similar facility that is utilized to sell produce to passing motorists or pedestrians.
Property owner: a person or persons, including his/her legally designated representative, with verifiable legal title and ownership of a parcel or structure.
Protected property line: a character area and/or development category boundary line or a property boundary or portion thereof from which, across which, or at which performance standards are measured. Some of the protected property lines for a particular project, especially if it is an intense activity, may include more than just those adjacent property lines. They could be located across adjacent property or road rights-of-way but close enough to be included in the distance, and screening standards as well as those for noise, light, and glare.
Recreational vehicle (RV): is a motor home, travel trailer, truck camper or camping trailer designed for recreational or emergency human habitation.
Residential industrialized building: (also sometimes referred to as a modular home) an industrialized building that is a dwelling unit designed and constructed in compliance with the Georgia State Minimum Standard One-and Two-Family Dwelling Code. A residential industrialized building shall not contain a permanent metal chassis and shall be affixed to permanent load-bearing foundation. The term shall not include manufactured homes as defined by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.
Residential shipping container: a new or used container for residential use which has been inspected, tested and certified by an approved third-party agency in accordance with Georgia Department of Community Affairs (DCA's) approved quality control and inspection protocols.
Road: any thoroughfare (road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, etc.) which has been dedicated, deeded, or designated for vehicular traffic, public or private.
Roof line: the outermost extension of a roof at or beyond the wall of a building.
Screening: natural vegetation, landscaped vegetation (including planted berms), walls, and/or fences designed to lessen the visual interaction between adjacent activities or accessories thereto.
Setback: the minimum allowable horizontal distance from a given point or property line to the overhang or vertical wall of a building or structure.
Sleeping unit: means a habitable room occupied by a person under any form of accommodation providing remuneration for the room, which room does not include provision for cooking or food preparation, except for limited food preparation facilities such as bar fridge, mini-sink, and/or microwave. Sleeping units may or may not be equipped with sanitary facilities.
Single-family residential: a residential dwelling unit designed to be occupied by a single family as a standalone structure on a parcel of land, whether site-built, manufactured, or a mobile home, or attached such as a duplex or townhome.
Structure: a roof supported by columns, walls, or cantilevers, not fully enclosed.
Subdivision: division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions, via plat, for the purpose of either immediate or future sale, lease or building development.
Tiny homes: a residential industrialized building that is 400 square feet or less in floor area excluding lofts. These homes can either be built on site or in accordance with the industrialized building program.
Transient merchant: a person engaged in transient business either in one locality or in traveling from place-to-place selling goods, who, for the purpose of carrying out such business sells goods at retail from a car or other mobile unit.
Use: the performance of a function or operation which constitutes the activity developed on a parcel or tract of land.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
Secs. 27-1.2.3—27-1.2.9. - Reserved.
CHAPTER 3. - CHARACTER AREAS AND DEVELOPMENT CATEGORIES

Sec. 27-1.3.1. - Official character area map and road access classification map adopted.
1.
The Lumpkin County, Georgia recommended Character Area Map (CAM), developed as part of the Lumpkin County 2022 Comprehensive Plan, and referred to in this chapter as the "Character Area Map," is adopted as the official "Character Area Map" in the county's comprehensive plan along with any and all subsequent amendments thereto, and it is hereby made a part of this chapter.
2.
The Lumpkin County Character Area and road access classification maps are hereby adopted as part of this chapter, and the character area boundaries on that map, as they may be amended by the board of commissioners from time to time, defines the location and boundaries of all character areas described in this chapter.
3.
All notations, references and other information shown on the character area map and road access classification map shall be a part of this chapter as well as any amendments or modification adopted by the board of commissioners. If any other map is adopted by the board of commissioners with the intention of replacing the character area map, that map shall be considered part of this chapter in substitution of the present map.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022; Res. No. 2022-38, 9-20-20)
Sec. 27-1.3.2. - Character areas (CA) defined.
1.
For the purpose of this chapter, the planning area of Lumpkin County, Georgia, is hereby divided into nine different Character Areas (CA) listed below and described on the Character Area Map (CAM) of Lumpkin County. The county currently consists of approximately 271 square miles, and 173,268 total acres. The U.S. Forest Service land represents 33 percent off the total acreage, which equates to approximately 58,029 acres. The real total planning area is approximately 115,143 acres situated within its unincorporated boundaries.
2.
The county has identified certain character areas that can best accommodate commercial growth and which provide the necessary infrastructure, services and resources. In order to efficiently use land, growth must be focused into strategically located areas or into existing commercial character areas, thus minimizing development pressures on residential, rural, agricultural, and open space areas. This will in turn help to preserve the unique rural character of the county.
3.
No land shall be developed within a particular character area unless the property meets the requirements outlined within this chapter. For the purposes of this restriction, the term "within" shall mean that character area in which the largest percentage of the relevant parcel lies.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
Sec. 27-1.3.3. - Establishment of character areas.
The following character areas are established:
1.
Agricultural Preservation (AP) — AP is currently the largest character area within the county planning area. Due to the size of the AP character areas, the effort to preserve and protect what makes Lumpkin County such a special place to live is highlighted throughout this chapter. The development standards defined within this chapter support current permitted activities and future development activities such as conservation, agricultural, commercial agricultural uses, and low-density, large lot residential development. This character area is designated as Restrictive Development (RD).
2.
Rural Places (RP) — RP is currently the second largest character area. The development standards for RP areas defined in this chapter support current permitted activities and future development activities such as is intended for development as rural residential communities connected to the agricultural, economic, environmental, and aesthetic features of the rural and natural landscape through activities such as agricultural, commercial agricultural, and large lot single family homes, conventional subdivisions, or within large lot conservation and master planned developments. This character area is designated as Restrictive Development (RD).
3.
Residential Growth (RG) — RG's future development emphasis is for smaller lot size single family homes and conventional and conservation subdivisions. This character area is designated as Restrictive Development (RD).
4.
Neighborhood Village Centers — Neighborhood village centers are intended for small-scale commercial activities designed to serve daily local needs of the surrounding area. These uses will generally be retail or service oriented. The specific activity and development requirements are designed to be applied over, or in addition to, the requirements of the performance standards chart in section 27-2.2.3. This character area is designated as General Development (GD).
5.
Community Village Centers — Community village centers are intended for commercial, office, and mixed-use developments that serve a region or a larger area than the immediate neighborhood. The specific activity and development requirements are designed to be applied over, or in addition to, the requirements of the performance standards chart in section 27-2.2.3. This character area is designated as General Development (GD).
6.
Commerce Corridor — Commerce Corridors are intended for commercial, industrial, and other employment activities that do not have significant impacts on the environment or on nearby properties. Examples of these uses include office and business parks, medium scale commercial sites, office-warehouse centers, distribution/service facilities, light industrial, high-technology and research uses, wholesaling companies, and similar businesses. The specific activity and development requirements are designed to be applied over, or in addition to, the requirements of the performance standards chart in section 27-2.2.3. This character area is designated as General Development (GD).
7.
Gateway Corridor—Gateway corridors are intended large-scale commercial, office, technology, and distribution uses along major roadways and transportation corridors. The specific activity and development requirements are designed to be applied over, or in addition to, the requirements of the performance standards chart in section 27-2.2.3. This character area is designated as General Development (GD).
8.
Gateway Corridor Overlay District - The Gateway Corridor Overlay District (GCOD) includes land use and development requirements designed to be applied over, or in addition to, the requirements of the Gateway Corridor and the performance standards chart in section 27-2.2.3. Article III contains Overlay District requirements associated with this ordinance. This character area is designated as General Development (GD).
9.
Industrial areas are intended for uses that are likely to have negative impacts on neighboring properties or the surrounding area, and particularly those uses that could be potentially dangerous to health, safety, or general welfare if located near residential development. The specific activity and development requirements are designed to be applied over, or in addition to, the requirements of the performance standards chart in section 27-2.2.3. This character area is designated as General Development (GD).
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
Sec. 27-1.3.4. - Development categories defined.
1.
In order to implement the provisions of this ordinance, the following development categories are hereby established and each character area is designated to a development category:
A.
Restrictive Development (RD). The Restrictive Development (RD) category is primarily used for agricultural and residential type activities and development. This chapter requires non-residential activities that locate in character areas designated RD meet the performance standards chart. In this way, Lumpkin County promotes good development, without unreasonably taking away a property owner's land use options.
B.
Character Areas that are within the Restrictive Development Category:
1)
Agricultural Preservation
2)
Rural Places
3)
Residential Growth
C.
General Development (GD). Character Areas designated as General Development (GD) are best suited for non-residential activities, and, therefore, most activities are allowed to locate in those character areas designated GD with appropriate standards according to the activities proposed. However, residential uses designated as GD prior to the effective date of this ordinance are considered "protected" and would be given performance protection in accordance with the RD standards in this ordinance.
D.
Character Areas that are within the General Development Category:
1)
Neighborhood Village Centers
2)
Community Village Centers
3)
Commerce Corridor
4)
Gateway Corridor
5)
Gateway Corridor Overlay District
6)
Industrial
2.
Together with established character areas, and specific development categories, any new development proposed in each CA shall meet the performance standards requirements of the proposed development as described in article II of this chapter. These requirements are intended to separate and reduce potential conflicts between adjacent land uses by establishing road access requirements, setbacks, buffers and screening between uses while subjecting certain conditional uses to additional scrutiny and approvals because of the type activity and the potential impacts on neighboring and nearby land uses.
(Res. No. 2022-20, 5-3-2022)
Secs. 27-1.3.5—27-1.3.9. - Reserved.
