Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Washington County, Georgia," and may be so cited, as well as cited in a shortened form, "Washington County Code."
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances and resolutions, the following rules and definitions shall govern, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners:
Board of commissioners. The terms "board" and "board of commissioners" mean the board of commissioners of Washington County, Georgia, as the governing authority of the county.
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they shall be bound by such signature.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Washington County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time, except hours, is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted; and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The terms "county," "the county" and "this county" mean Washington County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the court provided by law for the punishment of offenders against the laws or ordinances of the county, whether it shall be the court now constituted or a court hereafter established pursuant to law.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the county to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Gender. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and co-partnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Month, year. The terms "month" and "year" mean a calendar month and a calendar year, unless otherwise provided.
Names of officers, departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the term "of Washington County" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical words. The ordinary significance shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the significance attached to them by experts in the trade or with reference to the subject matter.
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, corporations and bodies politic, or any combination thereof, as well as to natural persons.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean generally next before and next after, unless the context requires a different significance.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. Whenever the terms "state," "the state" and "this state" are used, they refer to the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" includes streets, sidewalks, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes and all other public highways in the county, unless otherwise provided.
Substantial compliance. A substantial compliance with any requirement of this Code, or amendatory ordinances to this Code, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient; and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly provided.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," when applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The present or past tense including the future.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing, numerals, pictures, illustrations and printed or written designs.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
Sec. 1-3. - Provisions considered continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations of such ordinances and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections, history notes and editor's notes.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, or as any part of the section; nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout this Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of Code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-6. - Severability.
It is declared to be the intent of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable; and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of any remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since such judgment or decree would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without incorporation in this Code of any such invalid or unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-7. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes for such improvements.
(10)
Any ordinance concerning zoning or land development.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county.
(16)
Any ordinance setting the rate of ad valorem taxes.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part of an ordinance that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
modified
(a)
All ordinances adopted subsequent to the Code of Washington County, Georgia, that amend, repeal or in any way affect the Code of Washington County, Georgia, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of the repeal of chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances, as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code of Ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Washington County, Georgia, is amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not previously existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of Washington County, Georgia, is amended by adding a section (division, article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (division, article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section, division, article or chapter shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, divisions, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
modified
(a)
By contract or county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of the supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by their omission from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so in order to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the term "this ordinance," or similar terms, to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinances inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions of this Code, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented by such alteration. Any person who violates this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - Liability for violations by corporations; other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by an officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall be deemed to be a violation by the corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by a corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where the violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order of any such person.
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared to be an unlawful act, an offense, or an ordinance violation by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared an ordinance violation, an offense or an unlawful omission by ordinance, rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
The term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context of this Code that it is the intent of the county to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the county officer or employee.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days or work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding 60 days, or both, or any combination thereof.
(c)
All sentences may be in the alternative, and fines may be imposed with the alternative of the other punishment in the event the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, each day that a violation of this Code continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(e)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit equitable relief to include stop work orders and temporary restraining orders or injunctions when applicable.
(f)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit revocation or suspension of a license, permit, or franchise or the imposition of other administrative sanctions.
(g)
All fines shall be paid into the county treasury.
(h)
In the event community service is substituted for a fine, the monetary rate for hourly work shall be the federal minimum hourly wage.
(i)
If it is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction that a punishment imposed under this Code conflicts with the laws of the state, the punishment shall be the maximum permitted by law.
State Law reference— Magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.; violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e); punishment for ordinance violations generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; display of driver's license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b); county responsibility for sentencing and maintenance of inmates, O.C.G.A. § 42-5-51(a); payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.; preemption of ordinances to general law, Ga. Const. art. III, § VI, ¶ IV.
Sec. 1-13. - Remedies.
The county hereby expressly reserves the right to utilize any and all legal and equitable remedies in the enforcement of the provisions of this Code.
Sec. 1-14. - Code enforcement officer.
The county hereby adopts the language of O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20, included below:
"(a)
The governing authority of each county, for the purpose of protecting and preserving the public health, safety, and welfare, is authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, violations of which ordinances may be punished by fine or imprisonment or both. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such ordinances may provide for traffic regulation, including adoption of the uniform rules of the road under Chapter 6 of Title 40, may provide for the regulation and control of litter in the same manner as municipal ordinances under Code Section 16-7-48, and may provide for the implementation and enforcement of any power or duty vested in the county governing authority.
"(b)
Each such ordinance shall specify the maximum punishment which may be imposed for a violation of the ordinance; and in no case shall the maximum punishment for the violation of any such ordinance exceed a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both; provided, however, that for violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement adopted pursuant to the federal Clean Water Act the ordinance may specify that the fine may be up to $1,000.00 per day for each violation by an industrial user.
"(c)
Jurisdiction over violations of such county ordinances shall be in the magistrate court of the county; and procedure for enforcement of such ordinances shall be as provided in Article 4 of Chapter 10 of Title 15; provided, however, jurisdiction over ordinances having to do with traffic offenses shall be in the court or courts having jurisdiction over state traffic offenses.
"(d)
This Code section shall not affect the jurisdiction of or procedure in any other court which has jurisdiction over violations of county ordinances."
Sec. 1-15. - Powers of code enforcement officer.
The county board of commissioners shall from time to time, when necessary, hire and appoint code enforcement officers, whether part- or full-time, to enforce the provisions of this Code. Said officers shall have the authority to issue and serve citations and to give testimony in any court having jurisdiction of the offense cited. The code enforcement officer shall have the power to enforce all county ordinances in the unincorporated areas of the county, to serve both warnings and citations, and to summons by way of citation individuals to appear before the magistrate court to answer for charges of county ordinance violations. The code enforcement officer shall have no powers to enforce any state statutes, or to make any arrest.
Sec. 1-16. - Chain of command code enforcement.
The code enforcement officer will be under the direct supervision of the director of public works or other county official as designated by the board. All citations issued will proceed under the jurisdiction of the magistrate court of the county.
Sec. 1-17. - Sheriff's concurrent jurisdiction.
The county sheriff shall be authorized to enforce this Code and all ordinances of the county, concurrently with any other person, including the code enforcement officer, who is already, or who shall be in the future, authorized by the board of commissioners to enforce this Code and ordinances of the county.
Sec. 1-18. - Solicitor-general's concurrent jurisdiction.
The solicitor-general shall be authorized to prosecute all violations of this Code and all ordinances of the county, concurrently with any other person who is already, or who shall be in the future, authorized by the board of commissioners to prosecute all violations of this Code and ordinances of the county.
