Chapter 32 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of county to regulate traffic in unincorporated areas, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; prosecution of traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-1 et seq.; uniform rules of the road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.; alteration of speed limits by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-183; stopping, standing and parking, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-200 et seq.; Parking Law for Persons with Disabilities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-220 et seq.; bicycles and play vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-290 et seq.; authority to regulate or prohibit stopping, standing or parking, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(1); authority to regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(3); power of local authorities generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371; adoption of uniform rules of the road by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372; funeral processions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-76; operation of motorcycles and motor vehicles in parades, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-7; authority to provide devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 32-1. - Uniform rules of the road adopted by reference; penalty for violation of section.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-2—40-6-395, the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376, known as the uniform rules of the road, and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1, except as otherwise indicated, are adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the county with like effect as if recited in this section.
(b)
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by state law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished in accordance with the general penalty provision in section 1-12.
Sec. 32-2. - County decal not required on certain county vehicles.
Vehicles used for law enforcement purposes and for prosecution purposes, owned or leased by the county, are not required and shall not be marked with a county decal or seal affixed to the vehicle.
State Law reference— Decal or sign generally required on local government vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-20.
Secs. 32-3—32-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRUCK ROUTE REGULATIONS

Sec. 32-31. - Restricted road use by vehicles of certain weight rating.
(a)
All motor vehicles having a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) or vehicle combinations with a gross combination weight rating (GCWR) in excess of 56,000 pounds, except vehicles designed to carry passengers, whether loaded or unloaded, are prohibited from using any road within the unincorporated county except those authorized as truck routes by this article, such routes being state roads or any other specified routes determined by the county.
(b)
GVWR is the total weight a vehicle is rated to carry by the manufacturer, including its own weight and the weight of its load. GCWR is determined by adding the GVWR of the motor vehicle and the GVWR of any towed units. In the absence of a manufacturer assigned GVWR for a towed unit, the GVWR shall be the actual weight of the towed unit including any load carried thereon.
(c)
Restricted vehicles must stay on designated truck routes unless a destination necessary for business, such as a pickup or delivery point, garage, or terminal, is accessible only via a nondesignated truck route or state highway. Ingress and egress to and from such points shall be made by the most direct route available from the nearest designated truck route. Such restricted vehicles include 18-wheelers used for agricultural purposes, mining, timber operations, and other applications.
Sec. 32-32. - Permit required for road use by certain trucks.
(a)
No vehicle shall be operated on any public road maintained by the county not approved as a truck route with a total gross weight in excess of 56,000 pounds unless the vehicle is making a pickup or delivery on such road. The maximum gross weight shall then not exceed the maximum permitted gross weight for state-designated routes as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 32-6-26. Any truck operated on a county road not approved as a truck route must provide proof of compliance with the weight restriction for the road traveled. In the absence of such proof, there shall be a presumption of overweight status.
(b)
A special permit shall be obtained to drive loaded or unloaded trucks greater than six wheels on a county road to a private residence or parking spot for parking. Such permit application shall include a certification that a proper driveway is in place at the residence or parking place to permit proper ingress and egress, and if on an unimproved road, applicant/driver shall further certify that he/she will not cause the road to become impassable for use by the general public. All ingress and egress routes will be determined by the county.
Sec. 32-33. - Penalty.
Any driver, company, or business that operates a vehicle in violation of this article is subject to penalties as provided by law and not to exceed $1,000.00 and or 60 days in jail. Any driver or company operating a vehicle in violation of this article may be further subject to civil penalties for any damage caused to county roads due to their violation. It shall not be a defense to a violation of this article that weight limit signs are not posted on roads. Rather, it shall be the responsibility of all drivers and operators in the county to be aware of all approved truck routes in the county, and to travel solely on state roads and approved truck routes.
Sec. 32-34. - Oversized loads, special permits.
The operation of oversized loads as defined by state law and off-road vehicles (such as equipment used for logging/forestry, agriculture, and mining) on county roads is a violation of this article. However, these operations are allowed through a special use permit obtained in advance from the county.
Sec. 32-35. - Signs required for truck routes.
(a)
The county shall post signage on those roads that are approved as truck routes. Further, a list of approved truck routes can be obtained from the county road department. For purposes of this article, all county truck routes are those designated as such by board of county commissioners.
(b)
The current routes are all state routes in the county, and the following designated county-maintained roads:
(1)
Old 85;
(2)
Yank Brown Road;
(3)
Deepstep Road between Old 85 and State Route 88;
(4)
N. Saffold Road; and
(5)
Kaolin Road from Hwy. 68 to Hwy. 15.
(c)
Any deletions or additions to these routes must be approved by the board of county commissioners.
Sec. 32-36. - Enforcement by code enforcement officer.
The code enforcement officer shall be empowered to enforce this article, and may inspect trucks on county roads that by appearance are overweight, or that may be overweight such as closed-container 18-wheelers. At no time may the code enforcement officer enforce any traffic violations or any other matters other than county ordinance violations.
