ARTICLE IX. - MASSAGE

Sec. 50-321. - License required.
Each person engaging in or carrying on the business of massage within the corporate limits of this city, as such term is defined in section 50-322, shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk in the manner specified in this article.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(1))
Sec. 50-322. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Employee means any person over 21 years of age, other than a masseur, who renders any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and receives compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
License means the authorization granted by the mayor and council to allow a person to engage in the business of massage in this city.
Massage means any method of treating the superficial parts of a patron for medical, hygienic, exercise or relaxation purposes by rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating with the hands or any instrument, or by the application of air, liquid or vapor baths of any kind whatever.
Masseur means any person who engages in the practice of massage as defined in this section. The use of the masculine gender shall include in all cases the feminine gender as well.
Masseur's permit means the permission granted by the mayor and council to a person to engage in the practice of massage as defined in this section.
Patron means any person over 18 years of age who receives a massage under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he will pay money or give any other consideration therefor.
Recognized school means any school or institution of learning which has for its purpose the teaching of the theory, method, profession or work of massage, which school requires a resident course of study of not less than 70 hours before the student shall be furnished with a diploma or certificate of graduation from such school following the successful completion of such course of study or learning.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(2))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-323. - License application.
Applications for a license to engage in the business of massage shall be made as provided in article I of this chapter except that the application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
The name, style and designation under which the business or practice is to be conducted;
(2)
The business address and all telephone numbers where the business is to be conducted;
(3)
A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all masseurs and employees in the business and the name and residence addresses of the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business;
(4)
The following personal information concerning the applicant and the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business:
a.
Name, complete residence address, and residence telephone numbers;
b.
The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address of the applicant;
c.
Written proof of age;
d.
Height, weight, color of hair and eyes, and sex;
e.
Two front-face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the date of the application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
f.
The massage or similar business history and experience including, but not limited to, whether or not such person in previously operating in this or another city or state under license or permit has had such license or permit denied, revoked or suspended and the reason therefor, and the business activities or occupations subsequent to such action of denial, suspension or revocation;
g.
All criminal convictions other than misdemeanor traffic violations, fully disclosing the jurisdiction in which convicted, and the offense for which convicted, and the circumstances thereof;
h.
A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file by the police chief or his authorized representatives;
i.
Information on educational background, including a diploma, certificate, or other written proof of graduation from a recognized school by the applicant or by the person who shall be directly responsible for the operation and management of the massage business, if such person graduated from such a school;
(5)
Such other information, identification, and physical examination of the person as shall be deemed necessary by the chief of police to discover the truth of the matters herein required to be set forth in the application;
(6)
Authorization for the city, its agents, and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the license;
(7)
The names and addresses of three adult residents of the county who will serve as character references, which such references must be persons other than relatives and business associates; and
(8)
Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury, that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and correct, said declaration being duly dated and signed in the city.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(3))
Sec. 50-324. - License fee.
The annual business license fee for persons engaging in the business of massage in this city shall be $250.00.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(4))
Sec. 50-325. - Public hearing.
Upon the filing of an application for a massage business license, the city clerk shall fix a time and place for a public hearing thereon. Notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant individually and to the general public by publication of notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(5))
Sec. 50-326. - Inspection of premises.
(a)
All premises proposed to be used by licensees hereunder shall be inspected by the chief of police or his authorized representatives prior to the issuance of a license for the purposes of ensuring that such premises comply with all the building and sanitation requirements set forth in the regulations and laws of the city and have adequate ventilation, heating and illumination.
(b)
The police chief shall provide for the periodic inspection of all massage businesses to assure that such establishments continue to operate in full conformity with all regulations and laws of this city.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(6))
Sec. 50-327. - Limitations on issuance.
No license to engage in the business of massage shall be issued if the chief of police or the city clerk finds that:
(1)
The correct license fee has not been tendered to the city, or, in the case of a check or bank draft, has not been honored with payment upon presentation.
(2)
The applicant or the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business has been convicted of any crime involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, unless the conviction therefor occurred at least five years prior to the date of the application.
(3)
The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent statement of fact in the license application or in any document required by the city in conjunction therewith.
(4)
The applicant has had a massage business license denied, revoked or suspended for any reason by the city or any other state or local agency within five years prior to the date of the application.
(5)
The applicant or the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business is not over the age of 18 years.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(7))
Sec. 50-328. - Masseur's permit.
No person shall practice massage as a masseur, employee or otherwise, unless such person shall have obtained and shall have then in force a valid masseur's permit issued by the city as provided in this section:
(1)
Application. An application for a masseur's permit shall be made to the city clerk in writing on a form furnished by the city clerk and shall contain the following information:
a.
Name, complete residence address, and residence telephone numbers;
b.
The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address of the applicant;
c.
Written proof of age;
d.
Height, weight, color of hair and eyes, and sex;
e.
Two front-face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the date of application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
f.
The massage or similar business history and experience including, but not limited to, whether or not such person in previously operating in this or another city or state under license or permit has had such license or permit denied, revoked or suspended and the reasons therefor, and the business activities or occupations subsequent to such action of denial, suspension or revocation;
g.
All criminal convictions, other than misdemeanor traffic violations, fully disclosing the jurisdiction in which convicted, and the offense for which convicted and the circumstances thereof;
h.
A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file by the police chief or his authorized representatives;
i.
Information on educational background, including the diploma, certificate or other written proof of graduation from a recognized school where the theory, method, profession or work of massage is taught, if the applicant graduated from such a school;
j.
A statement in writing from a licensed physician in the state that he has examined the applicant and believes the applicant to be free of all communicable diseases;
k.
Such other information, identification and physical examination of the person deemed necessary by the chief of police to discover the truth of the matters herein required to be set forth in the application;
l.
Authorization for the city, its agents, and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the permit; and
m.
A written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury, that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and correct, said declaration being duly dated and signed in the city.
(2)
Fee. Each application for a masseur's permit shall be accompanied by a permit fee of $75.00.
(3)
Police investigation of applicant. The chief of police shall require an investigation of each applicant for a masseur's permit. Such investigation shall be made to determine the moral character and fitness of the applicant. The police chief may, in his discretion, require a personal interview of the applicant, and such further information, identification and physical examination of the person as shall bear on the investigation. A report of such investigation and a copy of the police record of the applicant, if any, shall be attached to the application and forwarded to the mayor and council.
(4)
Consideration of application. The mayor and city council shall upon consideration of the application and the report required to be attached thereto approve or reject the application.
(5)
Issuance. Upon approval of an application for a masseur's permit, the city clerk shall issue a permit to the applicant, which permit shall be signed by the city clerk and contain the name, address, age and signature of the applicant.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(8))
Sec. 50-329. - General operating requirements.
(a)
Display of license and permits. Each person licensed under this article shall display his license, and the permit of each and every masseur employed in the establishment, in an open and conspicuous place on the premises of the massage business.
(b)
Recordkeeping. Every person who operates a massage business or practices or provides a massage shall at all times keep an appointment book in which the name of each and every patron shall be entered, together with the time, date and place of service, and the service provided. Such appointment book shall be available at all times for inspection by the police chief or his authorized representatives.
(c)
Supervision. A licensee under this article shall have the premises supervised at all times when open for business. Any business rendering massage services shall have one person who qualifies as a masseur on the premises at all times while the establishment is open. The licensee shall personally supervise the business, and shall not violate, or permit others to violate, any applicable provision of this article. The violation of any such provision by any agent or employee of the licensee shall constitute a violation by the licensee.
(d)
Doors capable of being locked. No person who operates a massage business or practices or provides a massage shall permit any massage service or practice to be carried on within any cubicle, room, booth or other area within a massage establishment that is fitted with a door capable of being locked.
(e)
Minors. No person shall permit any person under the age of 21 years to come onto or remain on the premises of any massage business establishment, as masseur, employee or patron.
(f)
Alcoholic beverages. No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide, keep or cause to be sold, given, dispensed, provided, or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of any massage business.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(9))
Sec. 50-330. - Revocation or suspension of license and permit.
Any massage business license or masseur's permit issued under this article shall be subject to suspension or revocation by the chief of police for violation of any provision of this article, or for any grounds that would warrant the denial of issuance of such permit in the first place. The chief, upon such revocation or suspension, shall state his reasons in writing, specifying the particular grounds for such revocation or suspension.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(10))
Sec. 50-331. - Exceptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to hospitals, nursing homes, sanitariums, or persons holding an unrevoked certificate to practice the healing arts under the laws of the state, or persons working under the direction of any such persons or in any such establishment, nor shall this article apply to barbers or cosmetologists lawfully carrying out their particular profession or business.
(Code 1982, § 5-214(11))
Secs. 50-332—50-360. - Reserved.
