Chapter 18 - FRANCHISES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Telecommunications, ch. 33.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ELECTRICAL, FIBER AND CABLE SERVICES FRANCHISE

Sec. 18-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the City of Hiawassee, Georgia.
City council means the city council of the City of Hiawassee, Georgia and its designee or any successor thereto.
Franchise means an initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the city, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement or otherwise, which authorizes the occupation and use of the streets to provide services.
Gross revenues generated from cable and fiber services means the total amount of money charged by Blue Ridge Mountain EMC to customers for providing cable and fiber services however those charges are determined, but which, as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, is a flat fee.
Gross sales of electric energy means the total amount of money charged by Blue Ridge Mountain EMC to customers for metered electricity however those charges are determined, and which includes charges based on kilowatt hours used and demand.
May is permissive.
Ordinance means this article and all modifications and amendments thereto.
Person means any individual or any association, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation or other legally recognized entity, whether for profit or not for profit, but shall not mean the city.
Service means retail electric service, including temporary or construction service as well as permanent service, and other services provided by Blue Ridge Mountain EMC such as cable and fiber.
Shall is mandatory.
Streets means the surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all streets, alleyways, avenues, highways, boulevards, driveways, bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways, public grounds or waters, and other public rights-of-way within or belonging to the city.
(Ord. No. 2018-02-02, § 1, 3-7-2018)
Sec. 18-20. - Nonexclusive grant of franchise.
Be it ordained by the governing authority of the city that the nonexclusive authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to Blue Ridge Mountain EMC, its successors, lessees and assigns, for a period of 50 years, to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public places of the city within the present and future limits of the city as from time to time Blue Ridge Mountain EMC may deem proper or necessary for the installation, construction, maintenance, operation and extension of its facilities, which shall include, without limitation, overhead and underground poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes for which electric energy may be or become useful or practicable for public or private use, and for conducting any other purposes which Blue Ridge Mountain EMC is authorized to perform, including the provision of access to cable and fiber services, to re-enter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as it may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary or proper, in the judgment of Blue Ridge Mountain EMC, to ensure safe and efficient service.
(Ord. No. 2018-02-02, § 1, 3-7-2018)
Sec. 18-21. - Terms and conditions.
Be it further ordained that the rights, permission and consent herein contained are made for the following consideration and upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Blue Ridge Mountain EMC shall pay into the treasury of the city on or before the tenth day of each month, a sum of money equal to three percent of the gross sales of electric energy to customers located within the corporate limits of the city and served under residential, commercial and industrial rate schedules (as prescribed by Blue Ridge Mountain EMC and filed with the Tennessee Valley Authority) from lines located on the streets, alleys and public places of the city.
(2)
Blue Ridge Mountain EMC shall pay into the treasury of the city on or before the tenth day of each month during the term of this franchise, a sum of money equal to five percent of the gross revenues generated from cable and fiber services provided to customers located within the corporate limits of the city and served under residential, commercial and industrial rate schedules (as prescribed by Blue Ridge Mountain EMC and filed with the state public service commission) from lines located on the streets, alleys and public places of the city during the preceding calendar year.
(3)
In the event the city shall grant any other entity the right to use and occupy its streets for like purposes, such use and occupancy shall be upon the same terms and conditions as those herein contained, including the payment provisions hereof.
(4)
The amount, if any, of any tax, fee, charge or imposition of any kind required, demanded or exacted by the city on any account shall operate to reduce to that extent the amount due from the percentage of gross sales provided for above.
(5)
Blue Ridge Mountain EMC, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity, and providing other services shall submit and be subject to all reasonable police laws, rules and regulations of the city for the regulation and control of such structures. Nothing contained herein, however, shall require Blue Ridge Mountain EMC to surrender or limit its property rights created hereby without due process of law, including adequate compensation, for any other purpose at the instance of the city or for any purpose at the instance of any other entity, private or governmental.
(6)
Blue Ridge Mountain EMC shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all damages to person or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation or extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity, or providing other services, or conditions of streets resulting therefrom.
(7)
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Blue Ridge Mountain EMC shall not be obligated to pay to the city the fee provided for herein, or any portion thereof, as to customers living outside the corporate limits of the city, and as to customers located within areas that, after the effective date of this franchise, are annexed into the corporate limits of the city, such fees shall not be required to be assessed before 90 days after Blue Ridge Mountain EMC receives written notice from the city that the city has annexed the territory in which said customers are located.
(Ord. No. 2018-02-02, § 1, 3-7-2018)
Sec. 18-22. - Notice.
All notices under this article shall be made in writing and shall be delivered or sent by:
(1)
First Class, registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested;
(2)
Guaranteed overnight delivery (such as Federal Express or United Parcel Service Next Day Air); or
(3)
Hand delivery addressed to the address of the party in question as set forth below or to such other addresses as either party may designate by notice given pursuant to this section. Notices shall be effective upon receipt by the notified party.
a.
Notices to Blue Ridge Mountain EMC:
Attn: General Manager
P.O. Box 9
875 Main Street East
Young Harris, Georgia 30582
b.
Notices to the city:
City of Hiawassee
Attn: City Clerk
50 River Street
Hiawassee, Georgia 30546
(Ord. No. 2018-02-02, § 1, 3-7-2018)
Secs. 18-23—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PERMIT FOR CSL GEORGIA REALTY, LLC AND CSL GEORGIA SYSTEMS, LLC

Sec. 18-31. - Approval; adoption.
The city hereby approves the systems communications right-of-way registration package submitted by CSL Georgia Realty, LLC and CSL Georgia Systems, LLC (collectively known as Uniti) on August 7, 2019, and hereby adopts, subject to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 46-5-1, the registration of Uniti subject to the requirements of the law.
(Ord. No. 2019-09-02 , § 1, 10-1-2019)
Sec. 18-32. - Compliance; payment.
Uniti shall comply with the legal requirements for submitting due compensation to the city, and will pay the maximum amount allowed by law, no later than the time provided by law.
(Ord. No. 2019-09-02 , § 1, 10-1-2019)
