Chapter 34 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority as to waste disposal, § 1.13(21), (22).
State Law reference— Solid waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
Litter means any kind of garbage, trash, dirt, rubbish, waste article (liquid or solid), concrete, rocks, dead animals, lumber junk, trash, debris, abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers, brush or any other personalty which causes a defacement of public or private property.
Nuisance means any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is detrimental to the property of others, which is offensive to the sight or smell of ordinarily reasonable and sensible persons, or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in which the premises are located. This includes, but is not limited to, the keeping or the depositing on, or the scattering over the premises of any litter, and further includes an owner and/or occupant allowing litter to remain upon the premises so that such litter is readily visible from any public place or from any surrounding private property.
Premises means a parcel of land and the structures thereon.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway, any body of water or watercourse or the shores of beaches thereof, any park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreation area, and residential, business or farm properties, timber lands or forest, located within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 1)
Sec. 34-2. - Nuisances not permitted.
Nothing in this chapter shall authorize the maintenance of a public or private nuisance as defined under other provisions of law.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 2)
Sec. 34-3. - Chapter supplemental.
This chapter shall be supplemental and in addition to other regulatory statutes and ordinances heretofore or hereinafter enacted by the city, the state or any other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 2)
Sec. 34-4. - Enforcement officers; right-of-entry.
All law enforcement officers of the city and the city building inspector, along with the governing body shall administer and enforce compliance with this chapter. In the enforcement of this chapter, such officers and official may enter upon private or public property to examine the litter or obtain information as to the identity of the litter and to remove or cause the removal of the litter declared to be a public nuisance pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 3)
Sec. 34-5. - Littering generally; declaration of nuisance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw, leave or in any manner maintain litter on public property or any private lot, tract or parcel of land or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved, within the corporate limits of the city; and such unlawful act shall constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 2)
State Law reference— Littering, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-40 et seq., 40-6-249.
Sec. 34-6. - Disposal requirements as to owner or occupant.
The owner or occupant of the premises shall abate the nuisance by the prompt removal of the litter into completely enclosed buildings or receptacles authorized to be used for such purposes, if within the city, or otherwise to remove it to a location without the city.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 11)
Sec. 34-7. - Hearing—Issuance of notice.
When an officer or inspector discovers litter existing on public or private property, the litter shall be reported to the governing body by such officer or inspector. When such litter is brought to the attention of the governing body by this or any other means, if the governing body deems such litter a nuisance, the governing body shall issue a notice to the parties hereinafter stated and such notice shall:
(1)
Be in writing;
(2)
Specify the public nuisance and its location;
(3)
Request the public nuisance be abated;
(4)
Request that the party be and appear at a stated date, time and place for a public hearing to be held on the question of abatement or removal of the litter, if such notice is not complied with;
(5)
Be served personally on or be mailed, by certified mail not less than ten days before the hearing, to the owner of the land as shown on the last city ad valorem tax digest or to the occupant if the owner is not in possession of the premises.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 4)
Charter reference— Authority to abate nuisances, §§ 1.13(24), 4.13(j).
Sec. 34-8. - Same—Compliance prior thereto.
The removal of such litter from the premises prior to the date of the public hearing shall be considered compliance with the provisions of this chapter and no further action shall be taken against the owner of the litter, or the owner or occupant of the premises.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 8)
Sec. 34-9. - Same—Conducting.
All hearings under this chapter shall be held before the governing body, who shall hear all facts and testimony on the condition of the litter and the circumstances concerning its location on the public or private property. The governing body shall not be limited by the technical rules of evidence. The governing body may impose such conditions and take such other action as they deem appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the purpose of this chapter. They may delay time for removal, if in their opinion, circumstances justify it. At the conclusion of the public hearing, the governing body may order the litter removed from the property as a public nuisance and order its disposal.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 5)
Sec. 34-10. - Appeals.
(a)
Any interested party may appeal the decision of the governing body by filing a written notice of appeal with the city clerk within five days after the decision of the governing body.
(b)
Such appeals shall be heard by the municipal judge, who may affirm, amend or reverse the decision or take other action deemed appropriate from the evidence and facts of the individual case.
(c)
The city clerk shall give notice of the date, time and place of hearing the appellant.
(d)
Six days after adoption of the decision of the governing body or if such decision is appealed, and the municipal judge should affirm the decision of the governing body, five days after the municipal judge's ruling, such litter may be removed from the premises by city employees under the direction of the governing body or by persons with whom the city has contracted to remove the litter, should the appellant not remove the litter therefrom.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 6)
Sec. 34-11. - Nonliability of city for removal of litter.
Neither the owner nor the occupant of the premises from which any litter shall be removed, their servants or agents, shall hold the city's agents or employees or the city liable for any loss or damage as a result of the removal or disposition of such litter.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 7)
Sec. 34-12. - Litter removal contract.
The city may contract with any person for the disposal of such litter after removal from the premises.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 9)
Sec. 34-13. - Liability for expense.
Whenever the owner fails to abate the nuisance, the city may do so as aforesaid, the expenses thereof to be billed to such owner; the bill to be recoverable in a suit at law.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 12)
Sec. 34-14. - Punishment for violation.
If such owner allows the nuisance to exist, after receiving notice, as set forth in section 34-7, upon conviction thereof, such owner shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than $75.00 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such nuisance is permitted to exist by the owner.
(Ord. of 9-11-89, § 10)
ARTICLE II. - YARD TRIMMING DISPOSAL REGULATIONS

Sec. 34-15. - Definitions.
Commercial solid waste. All types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other non-manufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composing. The controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Leachate collection system. A system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste. Any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks and includes solid waste from single family and multi-family residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds and day use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agriculture or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility. Any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill. A disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, non-hazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings. Leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. of 11-4-96, § 1)
Sec. 34-16. - Placement and disposal of yard trimmings; prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the city.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having either a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within or used by the city.
(Ord. of 11-4-96, § 1)
Sec. 34-17. - Sorting, storing, composing and collection of yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stored in the following manner:
(a)
Leaves, brush, grass clippings, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance shall be stored in an area, not to exceed 20 feet by 20 feet, on the property generating such materials.
(b)
All yard trimming materials shall be placed in the rear of the property lot, where practical, so as to limit the visibility of such materials from the public roads, streets and highways, except such material may be placed on the curb not more than 24 hours before scheduled collection.
(c)
Yard trimmings not being retained by the owner for use as mulch, shall be disposed of by placing such material in bags on the curb in front of the property once a week in accordance with the schedule for collection established by the city.
(d)
Shrub, tree prunings, and other similar material which are too large for placement in bags for collection, may be placed on the curb without being placed in a bag; no larger than four inches in diameter will be picked up. Only tree trimming and leaves will be picked up. Pick up day will be Thursday of each week. Any commercial trimming must be removed by the company or the property owner.
(Ord. of 11-4-96, § 1; Ord. of 10-15-2019(2))
Sec. 34-18. - Penalties.
Any person violating sections 34-16 and 34-17 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $50.00.
(Ord. of 11-4-96, § 1)
ARTICLE III. - MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.

Sec. 34-19. - Stagnant water.
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowing allow any pool of stagnant water to accumulate and stand on said person's property without treating it so as to effectively prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1, 2-13-12)
Sec. 34-20. - Weeds.
Every owner or tenant of real property shall periodically cut the grass and other vegetation commonly recognized as weeds on his or her real property, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with an order of the chief of police or his designee to cut such grass or weeds when it has reached a height of over one foot.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1, 2-13-12)
Sec. 34-21. - Premises must be kept in sanitary condition.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any premises owned, occupied or controlled by him to become or remain in a filthy condition, or permit the use or occupation of said premises in such a manner as to create noxious or offensive smells or odors in connection therewith, or to allow the accumulation or creation of unwholesome and offensive matter or the breeding of flies, rodents, or other vermin on the premises to the menace of the public health or the annoyance of people residing within the vicinity of said premises.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1, 2-13-12)
Sec. 34-22. - Refuse defined.
Refuse shall mean and include garbage, rubbish, leaves, brush and refuse as those terms are generally defined.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1, 2-13-12)
Sec. 34-23. - Premises to be kept clean.
All persons within the city are required to keep their premises in a clean and sanitary condition, free from accumulations of refuse except when stored as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1, 2-13-12)
Sec. 34-24. - Storage of refuse.
Each owner, occupant, or other responsible person using or occupying any building or other premises within the city where refuse accumulates or is likely to accumulate, shall provide and kept covered an adequate number of refuse containers. The refuse containers shall be strong, durable, and rodent and insect proof.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1, 2-13-12)
Sec. 34-25. - Enforcement.
This article shall be enforced by the chief of police or building official.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1, 2-13-12)
Sec. 34-26. - Violations.
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute an offense punishable by the Municipal Court of the City of Trenton.
(Ord. No. 12-01, § 1, 2-13-12)
