PART I - THE CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The charter, consisting of Ga. L. 1987, Act No. 333 (S.B. No. 185), p. 4725, together with amendments, is set out as enacted. Amendatory enactments are cited in parentheses following the amended section or subsection. Words of explanation or correction have been added in brackets in appropriate places.

ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Section 1.10. - Incorporation.
The City of Trenton in Dade County is reincorporated by the enactment of this charter and is constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name of the "City of Trenton." References in this charter to "the city" or "this city" refer to the City of Trenton. The city shall have perpetual existence.
Section 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time by local law or in the manner provided by general state law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the mayor of the city and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map or Description of the Corporate Limits of the City of Trenton, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the mayor shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as the original map or description.
(b)
The city commission may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace but such earlier maps shall be retained in the office of the mayor.
Section 1.12. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
Section 1.13. - Examples of powers.
The powers of this city shall include, but are not limited to, the following powers:
(1)
Ad valorem taxation. To levy, assess, and collect ad valorem taxes on all taxable property in the city;
(2)
Other taxes. To levy, assess, and collect other taxes allowed by general law;
(3)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy, assess, and collect occupational and business taxes and to license and regulate occupations and businesses;
(4)
Appropriations. To make appropriations and expend funds for support of the city and any other lawful purpose;
(5)
Municipal debts. To borrow money and issue bonds as authorized by general law;
(6)
Property. To own property and interests in property;
(7)
Gifts. To accept gifts and grants for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city on such terms as the donor may impose;
(8)
Condemnation. To condemn property inside or outside the city for present or future use;
(9)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties therefor; and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same; and to authorize the extension of water, sewerage, and electrical distribution systems, and all necessary appurtenances by which said utilities are distributed, inside and outside the corporate limits of the city; and to provide utility services to persons, firms, and corporations inside and outside the corporate limits of the city as provided by ordinance;
(10)
Public utilities. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and to prescribe the conditions of such franchises and contracts;
(11)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to negotiate and execute leases over, through, under, or across any city property or the right of way of any street, road, alley, and walkway or portion thereof within the corporate limits of the city for bridges, passageways, or any other purpose or use between buildings on opposite sides of the street and for other bridges, overpasses, and underpasses for private use at such location and to charge a rental therefor in such manner as may be provided by ordinance; and to authorize and control the construction of bridges, overpasses, and underpasses within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights of way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities and for private use; and to require real estate owners to maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands and to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(12)
Public facilities. To acquire, operate, and dispose of public buildings, public projects, parks, cemeteries, golf courses, and other public improvements inside or outside the city;
(13)
Building regulation. To regulate the building trades and the construction of buildings and to adopt and enforce building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, heating, and air-conditioning codes;
(14)
Planning and zoning. To provide for city planning by zoning, subdivision regulation, and the like;
(15)
Police power. To exercise the police power for the public safety and well-being of the city;
(16)
Roadside regulation. To prohibit or regulate signs, billboards, and other items upon or adjacent to streets and roads;
(17)
Health. To prescribe and enforce health and sanitation standards;
(18)
Pollution. To regulate emissions which pollute the air and water;
(19)
Fire safety. To fix fire limits and to prescribe and enforce fire-safety regulations;
(20)
Public hazards. To provide for the destructions or removal of public hazards;
(21)
Waste disposal. To provide for and regulate the collection, disposal, and recycling of garbage and wastes;
(22)
Garbage fees. To fix and collect garbage fees;
(23)
Sewer fees. To fix and collect sewer fees;
(24)
Nuisances. To define and provide for the abatement of nuisances;
(25)
Property protection. To preserve and protect the property of the city;
(26)
Prisoners. To provide for public work by municipal prisoners and for their confinement;
State Law reference— Authority to provide, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-30-8, 36-35-6(a)(2)(B).
(27)
Animal control. To regulate or prohibit the keeping of animals;
(28)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation and parking of motor vehicles;
(29)
Taxicabs. To regulate vehicles operated for hire in the city;
(30)
Pensions. To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for city employees and officers;
(31)
Special assessments. To levy, assess, and collect special assessments to cover the cost of public improvements;
(32)
Contracts. To enter into lawful contracts and agreements;
(33)
City agencies. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer appropriate authority upon them;
(34)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violations of municipal ordinances;
(35)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through appointed policemen and to operate a fire department;
(36)
Emergencies. To provide for the determining, proclamation, and combatting of emergencies;
(37)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(38)
Public transportation. To organize and operate public transportation systems;
(39)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city; and
(40)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No listing of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers.
Section 1.14. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by the constitution of Georgia, by general law, or by this charter. If general law and this charter make no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE

Section 2.10. - City commission creation; composition; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city commission to be composed of a mayor and four commission members. The mayor and commission members shall be elected in the manner provided by article V of this charter.
Section 2.11. - City commission terms and qualification for office.
The members of the city commission shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or commission member unless he or she is a qualified municipal voter and shall have been a resident of the city for one year immediately prior to the date of his or her election. The mayor and each commission member shall continue to reside therein during their period of service.
Section 2.12. - Vacancy, filling of vacancies; suspension.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or commission member shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the general laws of the State of Georgia. A vacancy in the office of mayor or commission member shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in this charter.
(b)
Suspension. Upon the suspension from office of mayor or commission member in any manner authorized by the general laws of the State of Georgia, the city commission or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the duration of the suspension. If the suspension becomes permanent, then the office shall become vacant and shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in this charter.
Section 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
(a)
The mayor will receive $3,600.00 annually as compensation, the commission members shall each receive $1,800.00 annually, and the city clerk shall receive $14,000.00 annually, as of the effective date of this charter.
(b)
The compensation of the mayor and commission members may be changed by ordinance, but any increase shall be subject to code section 36-35-4 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated or any similar law hereafter enacted.
(c)
The mayor and commission members shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
(Ord. of 1-6-97, § 1)
Section 2.14. - Holding other office.
Except as authorized by general state law, the mayor or any commission member shall not hold any other city office or city employment during the term for which he or she was elected.
Section 2.15. - Conflict of interest.
(a)
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or political entity to which this charter applies shall knowingly:
(1)
Engage in any business or transaction or have a financial or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her official duties or which would tend to impair his or her independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her official duties;
(2)
Engage in or accept private employment or render services for private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her official duties or would tend to impair the independence of his or her judgment or action in the performance of his or her official duties;
(3)
Disclose confidential information concerning the property, government, or affairs of the governmental body by which he or she is engaged without proper legal authorization or use such information to advance the financial or other private interest of himself or herself or others;
(4)
Accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan, thing, or promise, from any person, firm, or corporation which to his or her knowledge is interested, directly or indirectly, in business dealings with the governmental body by which he or she is engaged; provided, however, that an elected official who is a candidate for public office may accept campaign contributions and services in connection with any such campaign;
(5)
Represent other private interests in any action or proceeding against this city or any portion of its government; or
(6)
Vote or otherwise participate in the negotiation or the making of any contract with any business or entity in which he or she has a financial interest.
(b)
Any elected official, appointed officer, or employee who shall have any private financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within any department of the city shall disclose such private interest to the city commission. The mayor or any commission member who has a private interest in any matter pending before the city commission shall disclose such private interest and such disclosure shall be entered on the records of the city commission, and he or she shall disqualify himself or herself from participating in any decision or vote relating thereto. Any elected official, appointed officer, or employee of any agency or political entity to which this charter applies who shall have any private financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within such entity shall disclose such private interest to the governing body of such agency or entity.
(c)
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or entity to which this charter applies shall use property owned by such government for personal benefit, convenience, or profit, except in accordance with policies promulgated by the city commission or the governing body of such agency or entity.
(d)
Any violation of this section which occurs with the knowledge, express or implied, of another party to a contract or sale shall render said contract or sale voidable as to that party, at the option of the city commission.
(e)
(1)
Any city officer or employee who knowingly conceals such financial interest or knowingly violates any of the requirements of this section shall be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall be deemed to have forfeited his or her office or position.
(2)
Any officer or employee of the city who shall forfeit his or her office or position as described in paragraph (1) above, shall be ineligible for appointment or election to, or employment in, a position in the city government for a period of three years thereafter.
Section 2.16. - Inquiries and investigations.
The city commission may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city commission shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Section 2.17. - General power and authority of the city commission.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city commission shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city as provided by article I.
Section 2.18. - Organization meeting.
The city commission shall meet for organization on the first Monday in January of each year or as soon thereafter as practicable. The meeting shall be called to order by the mayor and the oath of the office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of (mayor or commission member as the case may be) of this city and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
Section 2.19. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The city commission shall hold regular meetings the second Monday of each month. If the second Monday is a legal holiday, the meeting will be held the Tuesday immediately following the second Monday.
(b)
Special meetings of the city commission may be held on call of the mayor or the mayor pro tempore and two members of the city commission. Notice of such special meeting shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to commission members shall not be required if the mayor and all commission members are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a commission member in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such commission member's presence. Except where waiver by all members is effected by their presence or in writing, only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the city commission shall be public to the extent required by general state law and notice to the public of all meetings shall be made as required by general state law.
(Ord. No. 11/01, § 1, 6-13-11)
State Law reference— Open meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
Section 2.20. - Rules of procedure.
(a)
The city commission shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping minutes of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
(b)
All committees and committee chairmen and officers of the city commission shall be appointed by the mayor. The mayor shall have the power to remove members of any committee and the power to appoint new members to any committee, at any time, within the mayor's discretion.
Section 2.21. - Quorum; voting.
(a)
Two commission members and the mayor or mayor pro tempore shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city commission. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by voice vote and the vote shall be recorded in the minutes, but any member of the city commission shall have the right to request a roll call vote and such vote shall be recorded in the minutes. The affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this charter. The mayor, or mayor pro tempore if presiding, shall be entitled to vote only in the case of a tie.
(b)
In the event vacancies in office result in less than a quorum of commission members holding office, then the remaining commission members in office shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city commission. A vote of a majority of the remaining commission members shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion.
Section 2.22. - Ordinance form; procedure.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. The enacting clause shall be: "The Commission of the City of Trenton hereby ordains …" and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any commission member and read at a regular or special meeting of the city commission.
(c)
Upon passage, all ordinances shall be signed by the mayor, or mayor pro tempore if presiding, and the city clerk.
(d)
Failure to comply with the technical requirements of this section shall not invalidate an ordinance if the intention of the governing authority that the ordinance be effective is evident.
Section 2.23. - Action requiring an ordinance.
In addition to other acts required by general state law or by specific provisions of this charter to be done by ordinance, acts of the city commission which have the force and effect of law shall be done by ordinance.
Section 2.24. - Emergencies.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the city commission may convene on call of the mayor or two commission members and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes, grant, renew, or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 30 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Section 2.25. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The city commission may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Section 2.26. - Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by his or her signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for the purpose all ordinances adopted by the commission.
(b)
The city commission shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city commission and shall be published as soon as is practicable, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city commission may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Trenton, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city, and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the city commission.
(c)
The city commission shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be published as soon as is practicable following its adoption, and the published ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city commission. Following publication of the first code under this charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The city commission shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
Section 2.27. - Election of mayor; forfeiture; compensations.
The mayor shall be elected and serve for a term of four years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. He or she shall be a qualified elector of this city and shall have been a resident of this city for at least one year immediately preceding his or her election. He or she shall continue to reside in this city during the period of his or her service. He or she shall forfeit his or her office on the same grounds and under the same procedure as for commission members. The compensation of the mayor shall be established in the same manner as for commission members.
Section 2.28. - Chief executive officer.
The mayor shall be the chief executive of this city. He or she shall possess all of the executive and administrative powers granted to the city under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, and all the executive and administrative powers contained in this charter.
Section 2.29. - Powers and duties of mayor.
As the chief executive of this city, the mayor shall:
(1)
See that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed;
(2)
Preside at all meetings of the mayor and commission and have the right to take part in the deliberations of said board but shall not vote on any question except in the case of a tie;
(3)
Sign all deeds and contracts, except deeds for property sold under execution at public sale;
(4)
Cosign, along with the city clerk, all checks for the payment of money, after payment of unpaid invoices, bills, and vouchers is approved by the mayor and commission;
(5)
Be clothed with veto power as hereinafter set out;
(6)
Keep the commission advised from time to time of the general condition of the city and recommend such measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the welfare of the city; and
(7)
Call the commission together at any time when deemed necessary by him or her.
Section 2.30. - Mayor pro tempore.
The city commission shall elect by a majority vote from among its members a mayor pro tempore who shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor upon the mayor's disability or absence.
Section 2.31. - Veto power.
Every ordinance and resolution passed and every election of an officer or employee by the mayor and commission shall be subject to the veto of the mayor. The mayor shall within three days write out his or her objections to such resolution, ordinance, or election, and the mayor and commission shall, at the next regular or called meeting at which a quorum shall be present, order said objections entered on the minutes and take a vote on the question as to whether said ordinance, resolution, or other action shall become adopted over said veto. Should as many as three commission members vote in the affirmative, said resolution, ordinance, or other action shall stand affirmed and become effective without the approval of the mayor; otherwise, not. The ayes and nays shall in all cases be entered on the minutes.
Section 2.32. - Powers and duties of city clerk.
The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal; maintain city council records required by this charter; and perform such other duties as may be required by the city commission.
(Ord. of 1-4-88(1), § 1)
Section 2.33. - City clerk term and qualification for office.
The city clerk shall serve for a term of four years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. He or she shall be a qualified elector of this city and shall have been a resident of this city for at least one year immediately preceding his or her election. He or she shall continue to reside in this city during the period of his or her service. He or she shall forfeit his or her office on the same grounds and under the same procedure as for commission members. The compensation of the city clerk shall be established in the same manner as for commission members.
(Ord. of 1-4-88(1), § 1)
Section 2.34. - Election; vacancy.
The city clerk shall be elected. The office of city clerk shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the general laws of the State of Georgia. A vacancy in the office of city clerk shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided in section 5.12 of this charter.
(Ord. of 1-4-88(1), § 1)
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Section 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the city commission by ordinance shall prescribe the functions or duties of and establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or general state law or federal law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance.
(d)
There shall be an elected commissioner of the police department, the street department, the parks and recreation department, and the fire and utilities department, who shall be its principal officer. Each commissioner shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the mayor and other commissioners, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his or her department.
(e)
The city clerk serving in office as of January 1, 2017, shall serve the remainder of the term of office for which such city clerk was elected; however, no further elections shall be conducted for the position of city clerk and the term of such elected city clerk shall end on the first Monday in January, 2018. Beginning on the first Monday in January, 2018, there shall be an appointed city clerk who shall carry out the duties of city clerk as set forth in this charter and other applicable law. The city clerk shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council, and shall serve at the pleasure of the governing authority of the city.
(Act No. 276, § 1, 5-9-17)
Cross reference— Authority to create, etc., departments, § 1.13(33).
Section 3.11. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The city commission shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative functions as the city commission deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city commission for such term of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or general state law.
(c)
The city commission, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Except as specifically authorized by general law, no member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(e)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter, by general law, or by ordinance.
(f)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until he or she has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself or herself to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of his or her office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(g)
Any member of a board, commission, or authority may be removed from office for cause by a majority vote of the city commission.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by general state law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairman and one member as vice-chairman and one member as secretary. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or general state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Cross reference— Authority to create, etc., boards, commissions and authorities, § 1.13(33).
Section 3.12. - City attorney.
The city commission shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the commission as directed; shall advise the city commission, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by virtue of his or her position as city attorney.
Section 3.13. - Personnel policies.
The city commission may adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employments;
(2)
The administration of a position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and applications of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoffs shall be effected;
(4)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and
(5)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Section 4.10. - Creation; name.
There shall be a court to be known as the municipal court of the City of Trenton.
State Law reference— Authority to establish, Const. 1983, art. VI, § I, ¶ I, § X, ¶ I; O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.
Section 4.11. - Chief judge; associate judge.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or stand-by associate judges as shall be provided by ordinance. The method of selection and terms of such judges shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he or she shall have attained the age of 21 years. Members of the state bar of Georgia shall be given preference in selection. All judges shall be appointed by the mayor and city commission.
(c)
Compensation of the judges shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
Judges may be removed for cause by a vote of three members of the city commission, or mayor and two members of the city commission.
(e)
Before entering on duties of his or her office, each judge shall take an oath given by the mayor that he or she will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office to the best of his or her ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city commission.
Section 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals designated by ordinance or as provided by ordinance.
Section 4.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of all city ordinances.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $100.00 or 15 days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction with a fine and/or imprisonment not exceeding those prescribed by the laws of the State of Georgia. The court may further sentence any offender upon conviction to labor for the city on the streets, sidewalks, square, or other public places for a period not exceeding 60 days.
Cross reference— Authority to work prisoners, § 1.13(26).
State Law reference— Maximum punishment, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2)(B), (C).
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his or her appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his or her bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
(g)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(h)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by general state law. All judges of the municipal court and the city clerk are authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city.
(i)
Each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a justice of the peace [magistrate] to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(j)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of this city granted by general state laws to mayor's, recorder's, and police courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
Section 4.14. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the superior court of Dade County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Section 4.15. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the city commission, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city commission may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations for procedure in the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Section 5.10. - Applicability of general law.
All elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
State Law reference— Municipal election code, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.
Section 5.11. - Regular elections; time for holding.
Regular elections; time for holding. Municipal general elections for the city shall be held biennially in the odd-numbered years on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November. There shall be elected the mayor, street commissioner, and fire and utilities commissioner at one election and at every other regular election thereafter. The offices of police commissioner and parks and recreation commissioner shall be filled at the election alternating with the first election so that a continuing body is created. The mayor and the commissioners shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. The terms of office shall begin at the time of taking the oath of office as provided in Section 2.18 of this charter. The mayor, street commissioner, fire and utilities commissioner, police commissioner, and parks and recreation commissioner in office on July 1, 2017, shall serve out the terms to which they were elected and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(Act No. 276, § 2, 5-9-17)
Editor's note— All general municipal elections are mandated to be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-3-51.
Section 5.12. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or commission member shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the city commission or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office. However, if such a vacancy occurs within 12 months of the expiration of the term of that office, the city commission or those remaining shall by majority vote appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects, the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with the "Georgia Municipal Election Code."
Section 5.13. - Nonpartisan elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices, and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party labels.
Section 5.14. - Election by plurality.
The person receiving a plurality of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Section 6.10. - Property tax.
The city commission may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city commission in its discretion.
Section 6.11. - Millage rate; due dates; payment methods.
The city commission, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, not to exceed ten mills, a due date, and in what length of time these taxes must be paid. The city commission, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum and may authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Section 6.12. - Occupation and business taxes.
The city commission, by ordinance, shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by general state law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to this city to be so taxed. The city commission may classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and may compel the payment of such taxes as provided in section 6.18 of this charter.
Cross reference— Authority, § 1.13(3).
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.
Section 6.13. - Licenses; permits; fees.
The city commission, by ordinance, shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general state law in such a way as to preclude city regulation. Such fees, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in section 6.18 of this charter. The city commission, by ordinance, may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitate.
Section 6.14. - Franchises.
The city commission shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of the city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The city commission shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises.
Section 6.15. - Service charges.
The city commission, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer, sanitary, health services, or any other services rendered inside and outside the corporate limits of the city. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.18 of this charter.
Cross reference— Authority, § 1.13(9).
Section 6.16. - Construction; other taxes.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by state law and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Section 6.17. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city commission, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general state law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest, issuance and execution of fi. fas., creation and priority of liens, making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed, revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees, allowing exceptions for hardship, and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Section 6.18. - General obligation bonds.
The city commission shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Section 6.19. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city commission as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
Section 6.20. - Short-term loans.
Any short-term loan obtained by the city must be repaid by December 31 of the year in which the loan was obtained unless otherwise provided by present or future state law.
Section 6.21. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year will be the calendar year. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by general state or federal law.
Section 6.22. - Action by city commission on budget.
(a)
The city commission shall adopt and may thereafter amend an annual budget, except that the budget as finally adopted and amended must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year, and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The city commission, by ordinance, shall adopt the final budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first day of the fiscal year. If the city commission fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly, until such time as the city commission adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotments thereof to which it is chargeable unless by a majority vote of the city commission.
Section 6.23. - Tax levies.
As the next order of business following adoption of the budget, the city commission shall levy, by ordinance, such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of this city.
Section 6.24. - Changes in appropriations.
The city commission, by majority vote, may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting or special or emergency meeting called for such purpose.
Section 6.25. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city commission. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal government may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing cost to the public.
Section 6.26. - Contracting procedures.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn by or submitted to and reviewed by the city attorney; and
(3)
It is made or authorized by the city commission and such approval is entered in the city commission minutes.
Section 6.27. - Centralized purchasing.
The city commission may prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
Section 6.28. - Sale of city property.
(a)
The city commission may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as provided by general state law.
(b)
The city commission may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city is of no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city commission may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 7.10. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of this city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city commission shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by state law.
Section 7.11. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules, and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are declared valid and of full force and effect until amended or repealed by the city commission.
Section 7.12. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue; and any such ongoing work or cases shall be dealt with by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the city commission.
Section 7.13. - Effective date.
This act shall become effective on the first day of the month following the month in which it is approved by the Governor or in which it becomes law without his approval.
Section 7.14. - Repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Trenton in Dade County, approved February 17, 1949 (Ga. L. 1949, p. 825), is repealed in its entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety. All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this charter are repealed.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
This table shows the location of the sections and any amendments to the 1987 charter.
EXPAND
Ordinance
of Section  Section
this Charter
1- 4-88(1) 1 2.32—2.34
1- 6-97 1 2.13
6-13-11 1 2.19(a)
5- 9-17 1       Added 3.10(c)
5.11
