Chapter 10 - COURTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Establishment of municipal courts authorized and jurisdiction thereof, Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 10-1. - Chief Judge; associate judge; solicitor.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such parttime, fulltime, or standby judges as may be necessary as provided in section 4.11 of the Charter.
(b)
A solicitor and an assistant solicitor may be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-1; Code 1998, § 22-1)
Sec. 10-2. - Sessions of court.
Regular sessions of the municipal court shall be held each month in sufficient frequency to meet the needs of the city. Each session shall be held at a fixed hour of a fixed day as may be determined by the judge, provided any session may be dispensed with when there is no business pending in the court or no cases are ready for trial.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-2; Code 1998, § 22-2; Ord. No. 18-95, § III, 11-6-1995)
Sec. 10-3. - Special sessions of court.
The judge may hold special sessions of court when, in their judgment, it is necessary or there is urgent cause for the trial of accused persons, before the next regular sitting of the court. The necessity or urgency of the cause shall be presumed from the fact of a session being held. All defendants shall have at least six hours' notice of the session.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-3; Code 1998, § 22-3)
Sec. 10-4. - Police attendance.
It shall be the duty of the Police Chief or designee to attend each session of the court to act as bailiff, and where necessary, the duty of each police officer making the arrest or having knowledge of the case for or against the defendant, to attend the trial of any person brought before the judge.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-4; Code 1998, § 22-4; Ord. No. 18-95, § III, 11-6-1995)
Sec. 10-5. - Clerk of the court; subpoenas; dockets.
The Clerk of the Court shall be nominated by the City Manager with confirmation of the appointment by the City Council. The Clerk of the Court shall:
(1)
Maintain a record of all warrants issued by the court and the disposition of same. The Clerk shall issue subpoenas as provided by law.
(2)
Maintain all original records filed with or submitted to the court, including, but not limited to, citations, orders, bonding agreements, motions, evidence and exhibits as well as records concerning the receipt of fines, fees, surcharges and bonds. The Clerk of the Court shall also maintain a docket, which shall contain a summary record of all citations, accusations and complaints filed with the Clerk and the disposition of same, including, but not limited to sentences and fines, nolle prosequi orders and dead docket orders. The Clerk may keep and produce such docket and any other records through the use of a computer, provided that any automated or computerized recordkeeping system shall provide for the systematic and safe preservation and retrieval of all documents, records and indices. When the Clerk elects to store for computer retrieval any or all records, the same data elements used in a manual system shall be used and the same integrity and security maintained.
(3)
Be authorized to make continuations of a case for good cause shown.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-5; Code 1998, § 22-5; Ord. No. 19-95, 11-6-1995)
Sec. 10-6. - Continuance of cases.
Continuances shall be made only for good cause shown. Prior to the scheduled court appearance the Clerk of the Court, or a designee, or the judge may grant continuations of a case.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-6; Code 1998, § 22-6)
Sec. 10-7. - Appearance bond; procedure for accepting.
Offenses against the ordinances of the city shall be bailable as follows:
(1)
The arresting officer, Chief of Police, judge or any other officer designated by the Chief of Police, may accept bond of the accused payable to the city conditioned upon the appearance of the accused at the next session or any subsequent session of the municipal court as stated in the bond, to answer the charge.
(2)
The bond shall be in writing in an amount established in a schedule approved by the Chief Judge of the municipal court.
(3)
A person arrested for violation of a city ordinance may be released on his own recognizance or may deposit, in lieu of an appearance bond, his driver's license with the arresting officer, the Police Chief or the judge if, in any of these officials' determination, the person will appear at the time set for the court appearance in view of the following considerations:
a.
The seriousness of the offense charged;
b.
The penalty provided by law;
c.
The number of charges pending against the defendant;
d.
The criminal record of the defendant;
e.
The residence of the defendant and the length of time of residence;
f.
The defendant's age;
g.
Marital status and number of children;
h.
Residency of the relatives of the defendant;
i.
Employment of defendant (by whom, nature of work and how long employed);
j.
Former employment;
k.
Amount of earnings;
l.
The defendant's character, reputation and previous criminal history;
m.
The defendant's mental condition; and
n.
Whether the defendant has membership in any clubs or societies, church affiliation and other things which could show that he is a responsible member of the community with established community ties.
(4)
Any person released under subsection (3) of this section shall receive a receipt for any driver's license deposited, or, if released on the person's own recognizance, shall sign and receive a copy of the citation or ticket describing the violation for which the person was arrested.
(5)
All persons arrested or notified by citation or ticket of parking violations shall be released on their own recognizance.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-8; Code 1998, § 22-7)
State Law reference— Bonds in cases of offenses against municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-10 et seq.
Sec. 10-8. - Forfeiture of appearance bonds.
(a)
The judge or his designee shall call the case in its regular order, and, if the accused is not in court and does not answer the call, and, if no good and sufficient reason is given for nonappearance, the judge shall enter on the docket where the case is stated "Bond forfeited," or similar words.
(b)
Upon forfeiture of any bond, the cash deposited as security shall be paid to the General Government Administration Department and it shall become the property of the city.
(c)
Upon the forfeiture of any bond signed by a person as surety, the Clerk of the Court shall issue an execution against the principal and surety on the bond for the amount thereof which shall be collected as tax executions are collected.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-9; Code 1998, § 22-8)
Sec. 10-9. - Professional bondsman.
No professional bondsman shall be accepted as surety on a bail bond unless he holds a current business license in the city, and has also deposited with the General Government Administration Department the sum of $5,000.00 to guarantee the payment of any bond, if forfeited, which he may sign. If the defendant named in any bond signed by a professional bondsman fails to appear according to the conditions of the bond, and the bond is forfeited, the General Government Administration Department shall deduct the amount of the bond from the deposit made and pay the same into the city treasury, and the bondsman shall not be accepted as surety on a bail bond again until he has deposited with the General Government Administration Department an amount sufficient to restore the deposit to the original required amount.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-10; Code 1998, § 22-9)
Sec. 10-10. - Other bondsmen.
No employee or official of the city shall be accepted as surety on any bail bond, except where the principal in the bond is a close relative or an employee of the proposed surety.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-11; Code 1998, § 22-10)
Sec. 10-11. - Court dates; contempt warrants.
(a)
A court date will be made known to the defendant at the time of the arrest process and shall be properly indicated on the copy of charges given to the defendant by the arresting officer. Any changes to the original court date given at the time of arrest may be issued by the Clerk of the Court or his designee.
(b)
Warrants for contempt of court charges may be issued following each session of court.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-12; Code 1998, § 22-11)
Sec. 10-12. - Appearance of complaining witnesses.
A material or complaining witness in any contested prosecution shall appear at the session at which the prosecution is docketed. The prosecution may be dismissed if the material witness fails to appear.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-13; Code 1998, § 22-12)
Sec. 10-13. - Jury trial; bind over.
(a)
All charges cognizable as violations of state laws shall be handled by a commitment hearing, provided, however, that they may be adjudicated in the municipal court whenever the court would have jurisdiction over the offense, and the defendant, in writing, waives any right to trial by jury.
(b)
When a defendant is bound over to the appropriate state court, he may be released under any of the following methods:
(1)
If the defendant has made bond to the city he may be released on the same bond.
(2)
If the defendant has not made bond before being bound over, he shall make bond at the county jail book-in and an arraignment notice will then be given to the defendant, and the defendant must be delivered, in person, by the police, to the county authorities.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-14; Code 1998, § 22-13)
Sec. 10-14. - Pleas.
The defendant shall enter one of the following pleas:
(1)
Guilty;
(2)
Not guilty;
(3)
Nolo contendere (with the permission of the court); or
(4)
A former judgment of conviction or acquittal of the offense charged.
If the defendant refuses to enter a plea, the court shall enter a plea of not guilty and set the case down for trial.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-15; Code 1998, § 22-14)
Sec. 10-15. - Acceptance of pleas.
Before accepting a plea to an offense charged, the court shall in all cases, in language which the defendant can understand, inform the defendant of the nature of the charge and the penalty which may be imposed upon conviction, and shall inform the defendant of his fundamental constitutional rights. The fundamental constitutional rights of the defendant should include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Is not required to make any statement and that anything said by the defendant may be used against him;
(2)
May have a lawyer;
(3)
May have the case delayed to give sufficient time to be advised by a lawyer;
(4)
May have a lawyer present during any questioning and proceeding;
(5)
May testify in his own behalf;
(6)
May appeal any final decision rendered by the court;
(7)
A record of any conviction will become a part of the defendant's record;
(8)
May be admitted to bail in appropriate cases;
(9)
Is innocent until proven guilty;
(10)
May have the complaining or material witness present and right to cross examine; and
(11)
May bring witnesses in his own behalf.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-16; Code 1998, § 22-15)
Sec. 10-16. - Fines; enforcement by levy and execution; payment in advance of court date.
(a)
For fines that may be due by any defendant, execution may be issued by the Clerk of the Court and collected as tax executions are collected.
(b)
Persons charged with traffic violations may, prior to the time for their court appearances, plead guilty in writing and pay to the city as their fine the amount set as the appearance bond for the offense charged; except that those persons charged with driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs and those charged with an offense in connection with an automobile collision shall be required in all cases to appear before the court for disposition of the case.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-17; Code 1998, § 22-16)
Sec. 10-17. - Judgment and sentences.
Upon a judgment or plea of guilty the court shall impose sentence. The court may:
(1)
Impose a fine, with or without a commitment for confinement, compulsory work or both;
(2)
Commit the defendant to confinement, compulsory work or both;
(3)
Suspend the execution of the sentence in whole or in part; or
(4)
Defer the execution of the sentence or any portion thereof to one or more fixed dates in the future.
(Code 1979, § 2-5-16; Code 1998, § 22-17)
Sec. 10-18. - Indigent defense system for municipal court.
(a)
The internal operating procedures of the Gwinnett Judicial Circuit's Indigent Defense Program as accepted by the Gwinnett County Indigent Defense Committee on January 30, 2002, and as ordered by the Superior Court of Gwinnett County on January 30, 2002, the State Court of Gwinnett County on February 7, 2002, the Magistrate Court of Gwinnett County on February 12, 2002, the Gwinnett Circuit Juvenile Court on February 7, 2002, and the Recorder's Court of Gwinnett County on February 7, 2002, a copy of which is hereby set forth as exhibit "A" [attached to Ord. No. 02-2010] is hereby adopted as the official policy of the city as modified herein.
(b)
All references to the "county" or any office of the county including, but not limited to, the administrative office of the courts, in exhibit "A" shall be considered to be references to the City of Norcross. All references to the "committee" or "governing committee" in exhibit "A" with respect to the selection of panel attorneys for the Municipal Court of the City of Norcross and the processing and consideration of invoices from attorneys shall be considered to be references to the Municipal Court of the City of Norcross.
(c)
The panel of attorneys from which appointments may be made by the Municipal Court of the City of Norcross may be compiled by periodically soliciting attorneys who are on the panel of qualified attorneys created by the Gwinnett County Indigent Defense Governing Committee. The Norcross panel of attorneys need not be categorized as in part X of exhibit "A". Any attorney on the county's panel of attorneys who is involuntarily removed for cause pursuant to subsection 10.4(B) of exhibit "A" hereto shall be ineligible for appointment by the Municipal Court of the City of Norcross. Any other qualified attorney not appearing on the county's panel of qualified attorneys may request his or her inclusion on the Norcross panel and may be included on the Norcross panel if found to be qualified by the Chief Municipal Court Judge. Any attorney accepting an appointment by the Municipal Court of the City of Norcross shall be required to comply with the guidelines and standards applicable to panel attorneys and other appointed counsel set forth in exhibit "A", as modified or subsequently amended, herein.
(d)
Any fee or expense invoice submitted by appointed counsel shall be submitted to the Municipal Court Clerk and shall be reviewed by Norcross Municipal Court Judge who made the appointment of the Chief Judge, whose decision regarding Norcross panel attorneys, payment of fees, expenses, and costs shall be final and may not be appealed except as may be provided by law.
(e)
To the extent that exhibit "A" assumes a standard for determining an indigent defendant's right to appointed counsel inconsistent with the holding of Alabama v. Shelton, it shall be the policy of the city to apply the standards of Alabama v. Shelton.
(f)
The term "appeal" as used in sections 8.2 and 8.3 of exhibit "A" shall be construed to include a petition for certiorari to be filed in the Superior Court of Gwinnett County after a conviction in the Municipal Court of the City of Norcross. However, unless otherwise ordered by the Municipal Court, any appointment of counsel by the Municipal Court of Norcross shall terminate upon the entry of an order binding the case over to a court of record prior to any adjudication of the merits of the case by the Municipal Court.
(g)
The Municipal Court Clerk shall maintain a list of attorneys deemed eligible for appointment by the Chief Municipal Court Judge. The Municipal Court Clerk shall provide a form affidavit for requesting appointed counsel to any defendant in a case pending in the Municipal Court and shall forward any such form or other request for appointed counsel to the Chief Judge of the Municipal Court. If no such forms have been developed or are not available at the time a request for appointed counsel is made, the Clerk shall notify the Chief Judge of such request.
(h)
The Chief Judge of the Municipal Court of Norcross may develop internal operating procedures, forms, and other documents as may be necessary to effectuate this section and/or resolution.
(Ord. No. 02-2010, §§ 1—8, 1-4-2010)
Editor's note— Exhibit "A" is not set out herein but is on file and available for inspection in the Office of the City Clerk.
