ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 5.10. - Applicability of general law.
All elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 17-2018 , § II, 12-3-2018)
Sec. 5.11. - Regular elections; time for holding.
The city council shall cause an election to be held at the city hall or such other place in the city as the city council shall direct and designate. All general municipal elections held prior to the election of 2023 shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of each year, except that no such election shall be held in 2022. The general municipal election of 2023 and all subsequent general municipal elections shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of each odd numbered year. The term of each elected officer shall begin on the day and hour of taking the oath of office as provided in Article II, Section 2.18 of this Charter. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter, no term of office to which a person has been elected prior to the date this section becomes effective in 2019 shall be shortened or lengthened except pursuant to the procedures established by general law.
(Res. of 3-4-2019 , § 2)
Sec. 5.12. - Qualifying; absentee ballots; other provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the city council, by ordinance, may prescribe rules and regulations governing qualifying fees, absentee ballots, write-in votes, challenge of votes, and such other rules and regulations as it deems necessary to fulfill any options and duties under chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 17-2018 , § II, 12-3-2018)
Sec. 5.13. - Election by majority vote.
The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected by a majority vote of the votes cast for each position. The procedures and requirements for election of all elected officers of the city shall be in conformity with the provisions of chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 17-2018 , § II, 12-3-2018)
Sec. 5.14. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of the mayor or any councilmember shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the city council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such official; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within nine (9) months of the expiration of the term of office of the mayor or any councilmember, said vacancy in office shall be filled by appointment by the remaining members of the city council. In all other respects, a special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 17-2018 , § II, 12-3-2018)
Sec. 5.15. - Grounds for removal.
(a)
The mayor and any councilmember shall be subject to removal from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(1)
Incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(2)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(3)
Failure at any time to possess any qualifications of office as provided by this Charter or by law;
(4)
Willful violation of any express prohibition of this Charter;
(5)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(6)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this Charter or by state law.
(b)
Removal of an elected officer pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
Removal of an elected officer from office may be accompanied by two-thirds (⅔) of the vote of the entire membership of the council. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as provided in this section shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Gwinnett County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court;
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Gwinnett County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the City of Norcross, Georgia.
