ARTICLE III. - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

Sec. 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
The mayor and city council by ordinance may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city. The mayor shall recommend and the city council shall prescribe the functions and duties of existing departments, offices, and agencies or of any departments, offices, and agencies created or established by this Charter; may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the function or duties of offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city.
(b)
The operations and responsibilities of each department now or hereafter established in the city shall be distributed among such divisions or bureaus as may be provided by ordinance of the city council. Each department shall consist of such officers, employees, and positions as may be provided by this Charter or by ordinance. There shall be a department head of each department who shall be its principal officer. Each department head shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the mayor and city council, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his department.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the department heads and other appointed officers of the city shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and city council. Vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner as prescribed by this Charter for an original appointment.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by law, the department heads and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(e)
All appointed officers and department heads shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance of the city council.
(1996 Ga. Laws, page 3666, § 6; 1997 Ga. Laws, page 3517, § 4)
Sec. 3.11. - Boards, commissions and authorities.
(a)
The city council may create by ordinance such boards, commissions and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council for such terms of office and such manner of appointment as provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office or manner of appointment is prescribed by this Charter or by law.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by Charter or by law, no voting member of any board, commission or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(d)
Any vacancy in the office of any member of a board, commission or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for the original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law.
(e)
No member of any board, commission or authority shall assume office until he shall have executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of his office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance of the city council and administered by the mayor.
(f)
Any member of a board, commission or authority may be removed from office by a vote of a majority of the members of the city council.
(g)
The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of members of boards, commissions and authorities in the performance of their official duties.
(h)
The qualifications required of members of boards, commissions and authorities shall be prescribed by ordinance.
(i)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law, each board, commission or authority of the city government shall elect one (1) of its members as chairman and one (1) member as vice chairman for terms of one (1) year, and may elect as its secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission or authority of the city government may establish (after approval by the mayor and councilmembers) such bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter, an ordinance of the city, or law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Sec. 3.12. - City clerk.
The city manager shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a council member. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal, maintain city council records required by this Charter, and perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and city council.
(2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 213), page 4069, § 3)
Sec. 3.13. - City treasurer.
The city manager shall appoint a city treasurer to collect all taxes, licenses, fees, and other moneys belonging to the city subject to the provisions of this Charter and the ordinances of the city, and to enforce all laws of Georgia relating to the collection of delinquent taxes and sale or foreclosure for nonpayment of taxes to the city. The city treasurer shall also be responsible for the general duties of a treasurer and fiscal officer. The city clerk and city treasurer shall not be the same person.
(2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 213), page 4069, § 3)
Sec. 3.14. - City attorney.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys, as may be authorized by ordinance. The city council shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party, may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court, shall attend the meetings of the city council as directed, shall advise the mayor, city council and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs, and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as city attorney.
Sec. 3.15. - City accountant.
The mayor may appoint and the city council shall confirm a city accountant to perform the duties of an accountant.
Sec. 3.16. - City auditor.
The city manager shall contract with confirmation of the city council an outside firm to perform the duties of a city auditor.
(2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 213), page 4070, § 4)
Sec. 3.17. - Human resources.
(a)
Human resources manager. The city manager shall appoint a human resources manager who shall be responsible for policies and practices related to the equitable treatment of city employees.
(b)
The city position classification and pay plan. The human resources manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the city manager and then to the city council for approval. Such plan shall apply to all employees of the city and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the city council shall not increase or decrease the salary range applicable to any position except by amendment of such pay plan. The city manager shall apply the pay plan to city employees. For purposes of this section, all elected city officials are not city employees.
(c)
Employee rules and regulations. The city manager shall present to the city council for approval rules and regulations consistent with this Charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of a position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and applications of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoffs shall be effected;
(4)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and
(5)
Such other personnel notice as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
(1997 Ga. Laws, page 3517, § 5; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 213), page 4070, § 4)
Sec. 3.18. - Appointment of elected officials.
No person holding an elective office in the City of Norcross shall be eligible for appointment as a city employee during the term of office for which he or she was elected or within two years after the expiration of his or her term of office.
(2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 213), page 4070, § 4)
