ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE AND FISCAL

Sec. 6.10. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state and county purposes, assessed as of January 1 in each year, shall be subject to any property tax levied by the City of Norcross. The city shall use the county assessment for the year in which the city taxes are to be levied. The county is to furnish appropriate information for such purpose unless otherwise directed by state law. The maximum, general operation millage rate will be 15 mills.
Sec. 6.11. - Property tax levy.
The city council shall assess and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city as permitted by state law for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
Sec. 6.12. - Millage rate; due dates and payment methods.
The city council by ordinance shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date and the time period within which these taxes must be paid. The city council by ordinance may provide for the payment of the taxes by installments or in one (1) lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Sec. 6.13. - Occupational and business taxes.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not prohibited by law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in the city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to the city to be so taxed. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and may compel the payment of such taxes as provided in section 6.19 of this Charter.
Sec. 6.14. - Licenses; permits; fees.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general law in such a way as to preclude city regulations. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity and, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in section 6.19 of this Charter. The city council by ordinance may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety and welfare necessitate.
Sec. 6.15. - Sewer service charges.
The city council by ordinance shall have the right, power and authority to assess and collect fees, charges and tolls for sewer services rendered both inside and outside the corporate limits of the city, to provide for the total cost and expense of providing for the collection and disposal of sewage through the sewerage facilities of the city. If unpaid, said sewer service shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority to liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes as provided in section 6.19 of this Charter.
Sec. 6.16. - Sanitary and health service charges.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have authority to provide for, to enforce, to levy and to collect the total costs of sanitary and health services provided or made available inside or outside the corporate limits of the city. Such authority shall include the power to assess, levy and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount, or amounts, and based upon and in accordance with such classification of property and sanitary service or services provided, as may be fixed by ordinance. Said sanitary taxes and assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect to which said taxes are so assessed and the owner or owners thereof, superior to all other liens except liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes as provided in section 6.19 of this Charter.
Sec. 6.17. - Special assessments.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power and authority to assess and collect impact fees or other special assessment fees to cover all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, water systems or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owner or the owners of any property having a constitutionally sufficient nexus to the needed public improvement under such reasonable terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent 30 days after their due dates, shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fieri facias charges, to a penalty of 10 percent and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per annum from date due until paid. A lien shall exist against the affected property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes; and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedure and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes as provided in section 6.19 of this Charter.
Sec. 6.18. - Construction; other taxes.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by law, and the specific mention of any right, power or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 6.19. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenues due the city under Sections 6.10 through 6.18 of this Charter by fieri facias issued by the General Government Administration department and executed by any police officer of the city or the city marshal under the same procedure provided by the law governing execution of such process from the superior court or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. The city council shall be authorized to impose an interest penalty upon delinquent tax payments to the city in an amount not exceeding the maximum rate of interest allowable under the laws of Georgia. A lien shall exist against all property upon which the city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment date of each year, which lien shall be superior to all other liens, except that it shall have equal dignity with those of federal, state, or county taxes. In case of hardship, the city council shall have discretionary authority to waive any and all penalties imposed by this Charter on delinquent taxes, assessments, or on other amounts due to the city.
(1996 Ga. Laws, page 3666, § 7; 1997 Ga. Laws, page 3517, § 6)
Sec. 6.20. - Transfer of executions.
The general government administration department head shall be authorized to assign or transfer any fieri facias or execution issued for any tax, street, sewer, or other assessment in the same manner and to the same extent as provided by Georgia law regarding sales and transfers of tax fieri facias; provided, however, that upon levy of execution and sale of property pursuant to such tax fieri facias, whether assigned, transferred, or executed by the city, the owner of such property, in fee simple or lesser interest, shall not lose his or her right to redeem the property in accord with the requirements of redemption of property sold under state or county ad valorem tax fieri facias as said requirements now exist or may be hereinafter provided by law.
(1996 Ga. Laws, page 3666, § 8)
Sec. 6.21. - General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6.22. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenues produced by the project, program or venture for which they were issued.
Sec. 6.23. - Short-term loans.
The city may obtain short-term loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year and must repay such loans not later than December 31 of each year.
Sec. 6.24. - Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting for each and every office, department, institution, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by state or federal law.
Sec. 6.25. - Preparation of budgets.
The city council shall provide an ordinance on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget, a capital improvement program, and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content and form of such budgets and programs.
Sec. 6.26. - Submission of the operating budget to the city council.
On or before a date fixed by the city council, but not later than 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall prepare and submit to the city council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the city manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget, and such other comments and information as he or she may deem pertinent. The operating budget, the capital improvements budget provided for in this chapter, the budget message, and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
(1997 Ga. Laws, page 3517, § 7; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 213), page 4071, § 5)
Sec. 6.27. - Action by city council on operating budget.
(a)
The city council may amend the proposed operating budget, except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year, and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The city council, by ordinance, shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing year not later than the last day of the old year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly, until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity as set out in the budget document.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such item, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotments thereof to which it is chargeable, unless authorized by the city council.
(d)
The city council shall be authorized to establish a tax millage rate each year to ensure that the necessary revenue will be available to meet the appropriations provided for in said budget. The tax millage rate levied by the city council shall not exceed 15 mills to cover general operating expenses. An additional millage rate may be levied for the retirement of bonded indebtedness.
(1997 Ga. Laws, page 3517, § 8)
Sec. 6.28. - Changes in appropriations.
The city council may make changes in the appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting or special or emergency meeting called for such purposes.
Sec. 6.29. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before a date fixed by the city council, but not later than 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall prepare and submit to the city council a proposed capital improvements budget with recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The city council shall have the power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The city council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency as provided in Section 2.24 of this Charter.
(b)
The city council shall adopt by ordinance the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than December 31 of each year. No appropriations provided for in a prior capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriations were made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, the mayor or any member of the city council may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance.
(1997 Ga. Laws, page 3517, § 9; 2007 Ga. Laws (Act No. 213), page 4071, § 6)
Sec. 6.30. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal government may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this Charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing costs to the public.
Sec. 6.31. - Procurement and property management; contracting procedures.
All contracts shall be made or authorized by the city council and no contracts shall bind the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
In event a contract for goods or services is in excess of $500.00, it shall be drawn by or submitted and reviewed by the city attorney and, as a matter of course, shall be signed by him to indicate such drafting or review; and
(3)
It is made or authorized by the city council and such approval is entered in the city council journal of proceedings pursuant to section 2.21 of this Charter.
Sec. 6.32. - Centralized purchasing.
The city council may by ordinance prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
Sec. 6.33. - Sale of city property.
(a)
The city council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by law.
(b)
The city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution by the city council, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the city a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights of way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place when such exchange is deemed to be in the best interest of the city. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
(1997 Ga. Laws, page 3517, § 10)
