ARTICLE III. - DEPARTMENTS

Sec. 2-55. - Authorization.
The following departments are established by the council:
(1)
Administration;
(2)
Business Development;
(3)
Communications;
(4)
Community and Cultural Affairs;
(5)
Community Development;
(6)
Economic Development;
(7)
Finance;
(8)
Information Technology;
(9)
Municipal Court;
(10)
Public Safety;
(11)
Public Works; [and]
(12)
Parks and Recreation.
One or more departments may be combined to form one or more multifunctional departments.
(Ord. No. 09-05, § 2-55, 9-18-2017; Ord. No. 2019-01-04 , 1-28-2019)
Sec. 2-56. - Right of contract.
The City may contract with third-parties to provide all or portions of the functions of any municipal department.
(Ord. No. 09-05, § 2-56, 9-18-2017)
Sec. 2-57. - Oversight.
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of the director's department or agency.
(Ord. No. 09-05, § 2-57, 9-18-2017)
Sec. 2-58. - Policies and procedures.
The director of each department, or designee, shall establish policies and procedures regarding the functions and duties of each department, which shall be approved by the city manager.
(Ord. No. 09-05, § 2-58, 9-18-2017)
Sec. 2-59. - State and national criminal background checks.
(a)
Wherever in this Code a requirement for obtaining any license or permit from the city requires a fingerprint-based background check, the process of acquiring and utilizing same shall be in accordance with this section and all applicable Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) requirements in addition thereto.
(b)
An applicant for any license or permit that is required under a provision of this Code to undergo a fingerprint-based background check, shall submit two sets of his fingerprints taken by any law enforcement agency in the United States to the city manager or designee, along with appropriate fees for the fingerprint-based background check.
(c)
Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the city manager or designee will transmit both sets of fingerprints and the appropriate fees to the City's Police Department, who will then submit them to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI), who will conduct a statewide background check. The GBI will then transfer the same to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for a comparison with nationwide records. The results of the FBI check will be returned to the GBI, who will return the full search results to the Police Department. The Police Department shall then transmit to the city manager or designee any potentially disqualifying results received from the GBI by writing same on the background check consent form. The Police Department shall retain, until the conclusion of the licensing year for the license or permit applied for a copy of the fingerprint cards, results received from the GBI and the background check consent form.
(d)
In rendering a fitness determination for approval or denial of a license or permit, the city manager or designee will determine, based on the results received from the GBI, whether the record subject has been convicted, plead guilty or nolo contendere, to the disqualifiers as stated in the applicable section of this Code governing the specific licensing or permitting process. The city shall keep a copy of the application and background check consent form as required by the city's document retention schedule.
(e)
A record subject may request and receive a copy of his criminal history record information from the Police Department. Should the record subject seek to amend or correct his record, he must contact the GBI for a State of Georgia record or the FBI for records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.
(Ord. No. 09-05, § 2-59, 9-18-2017)
Secs. 2-60—2-87. - Reserved.
