Chapter 50 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 30; zoning, app. A.
State Law reference— Power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(5); authority to construct and operate parks, swimming pools, golf courses, recreation grounds and buildings used for sports, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; state commission on physical fitness created, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.

Sec. 50-1. - Use of grounds and facilities in general.
Each person or group using the public parks and other public recreation areas shall clean up all debris, extinguish all fires, and leave the grounds in good order and the facilities in a neat and sanitary condition.
(Code 1987, § 14-101)
Sec. 50-2. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person or group using the public recreation areas to either perform or permit to be performed any of the following acts:
(1)
Wilfully mark, disfigure, deface, injure, tamper with, or remove any structures, facilities, equipment, or park property or appurtenances thereto, either real or personal.
(2)
Leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, rubbish, garbage, or other trash on the grounds. Such refuse shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; and where receptacles are not so provided, all such refuse or trash shall be carried from the grounds and disposed of properly.
(3)
Disturb the peace, or use any profane or obscene language.
(4)
Endanger the safety of any person by any conduct or act.
(5)
Carry, possess, or drink any alcoholic beverage on the grounds.
(6)
Build or attempt to build any fire without first having obtained the permission of the recreation board.
(7)
Violate any rule or regulation for the use of the public parks and other public recreation areas, approved by the city council.
(Code 1987, § 14-102)
Sec. 50-3. - Dog parks.
(a)
Certain defined areas of select parks may be designated as off-leash dog areas by the city council or city manager. Users shall bring no animals other than dogs in the area. These areas must be completely fenced with a double-gated entrance and exit system. For any area of a park designated as an off-leash dog area, the rules set forth below shall apply. All of the rules below shall be posted on a sign at each entrance to the off-leash area and posted on the city website. In the event that the rules are not posted on a sign at the park being used, users of the area shall still be held responsible for knowing and following the rules, and may be fined or otherwise penalized for failure to abide by such rules. These rules may be supplemented or amended by the city council or city manager or her/his designee should she/he determine that additional rules are needed.
(1)
All users of the off-leash area shall assume all risk of injury to themselves, their dog or others and all liability for personal injury or property damages caused by them or their dog associated with use of such an area.
(2)
Owners are responsible for the action of their dogs. Each dog must be kept within sight of her/his owner and under voice control. Dogs must be leashed while entering and exiting the park.
(3)
Dog owners have responsibility for watching their dog's behavior. If a dog displays aggressive behavior or fights, the owner shall be responsible for immediately controlling or removing the dog from the off-leash area.
(4)
No more than three dogs per owner shall be allowed in the area at one time.
(5)
All dogs must wear a collar and ID tag.
(6)
All dogs must be properly licensed, healthy, and have current vaccinations.
(7)
No puppies under 16 weeks are allowed.
(8)
No dogs in heat are allowed.
(9)
No dogs are permitted to enter with pronged collars.
(10)
Any dog that barks continually must be removed or muzzled by her/his owner.
(11)
Owners must clean up immediately after their dogs and place in waste container.
(12)
The off-leash areas have double gated entrances. Owners must close and latch both gates after entering or exiting the area.
(13)
No children under the age of 13 are allowed in the area without close adult supervision.
(14)
No human or animal food or treats allowed. No glass containers are allowed in the dog park.
(15)
Do not feed dogs while in the area.
(16)
Bicycling, skateboarding, rollerblading, hoverboards, scooter, roller skates, jogging or strollers are not allowed in the area.
(17)
Dogs are not permitted on benches.
(18)
The off-leash area may be closed in times of bad weather or for maintenance or at the discretion of the city manager.
(19)
Incidents resulting in injury must be reported immediately to the city and the city police department.
(20)
Owners must be within the dog park and supervising their dog(s) with leash readily available.
(21)
Dog handlers must be at least 16 years of age.
(Ord. No. 2022-008, 10-17-22)
