Chapter 62 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Roads, § 6.16.
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 10; buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 18; cemeteries, ch. 22; environment, ch. 30; fire prevention and protection, ch. 34; floods, ch. 38; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 46; solid waste, ch. 58; subdivisions, ch. 66; traffic and vehicles, ch. 74; utilities, ch. 78; vehicles for hire, ch. 82; zoning, app. A.
State Law reference— Authority to construct and maintain streets and roads, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; powers with respect to municipal street system, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92; power of city to open, close or extend public streets, alleys and sidewalks, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; executions for collection of assessments for paving streets and laying sewers, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 62-1. - Maintenance and repair of public streets.
All maintenance and repair of public streets, alleys, curbs, sidewalks, and other public ways shall be under the supervision of the city council, which body shall have the responsibility of enforcing all provisions of this Code and all ordinances of the city relating to such public ways.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(1))
Sec. 62-2. - Maintenance of sidewalks.
It shall be the duty of all owners of property in the city upon which sidewalks have been laid to keep such walkways properly maintained at all times and to remove from them all materials and substances, including snow and ice, hazardous to passersby within 12 hours after such material or substance accumulates thereon or within less time, if so ordered by the chief of police or the city council.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(2))
Sec. 62-3. - Maintenance of property between sidewalks and streets.
All persons who own real estate in the city which abuts upon any sidewalk which is paved shall be required to keep that portion of such sidewalk which lies between the property line and the curbline of the adjoining street, and upon which his real estate abuts, in good and smooth condition and free from growing weeds and other obnoxious and unsightly vegetation or other things which would mar or detract from the beauty and cleanliness of the street upon which their property abuts. Any property owner who shall place or allow grass to grow upon the portion of the sidewalk lying between the property line and the curbline of the street as aforesaid, and upon which his real estate abuts, shall keep such grass properly mowed and free from rubbish of all kinds. If such owners are not in the possession of their property, this section shall apply to their tenants or those who have possession or control of the same.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(3))
Sec. 62-4. - Defacing sidewalks, streets, and curbs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface any public sidewalk, street, or curb in the city by painting any signs thereon whether for commercial advertising purposes or not, or to walk on, drive any vehicle upon or injure in any way newly laid street, sidewalk, or curbing pavement while the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade or is soft or newly laid.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(4))
Sec. 62-5. - Obstructions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create, or maintain any obstruction on any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way, except as may be provided in this chapter.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(5))
Sec. 62-6. - Deposits and discharges onto streets and sidewalks.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any street or sidewalk any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material or any glass or other article which may do injury to any person, animal, or property.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or allow to be discharged onto any public street or sidewalk any water or other fluid material containing objectionable material such as sewerage, waste milk, or other organic material.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(6))
Sec. 62-7. - Report of defects, obstructions, deposits, and discharges.
It shall be the duty of every city officer and employee who becomes aware of any defect or obstruction, or of any unlawful deposit or discharge, in or on any public street, alley, curb, sidewalk, or other public way of the city, to report the same to the mayor and council, as soon as possible.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(7))
Sec. 62-8. - Private use.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street, sidewalk, or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise for sale or to
write or make any sign or advertisement on any such pavement.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(8))
Sec. 62-9. - Encroachments.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any building or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property, or to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires over any public place, street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way, without having first obtained a permit from the city clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(9))
Sec. 62-10. - Openings.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any opening or stairway in any public street, sidewalk, or alley without first obtaining a permit from the city clerk in the manner specified in this chapter. All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable strong cover or railing approved by the city council.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(10))
Sec. 62-11. - Trees and shrubs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, remove, injure, or cut any tree, bush, or shrub in or from any public street, parkway, or other public place without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(11))
Sec. 62-12. - Awnings.
(a)
All awnings across the sidewalks of the city shall be not less than seven feet in height from the sidewalk and shall not be constructed without first having obtained a permit from the city council for the erection of same, which permit shall state types and material of which construction may be done.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to rebuild or repair any awnings constructed of metal, over the sidewalks of the city, without first obtaining a permit from the city council.
(c)
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to inspect all awnings over the sidewalks and any awnings found to be unsafe will on the recommendation of the chief of police be condemned and ordered removed by the city council.
(Code 1987, § 13-101(12))
Sec. 62-13. - Driveways and curbs.
(a)
Permit required. No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter, or grade any driveway, curb, or curb-cut on the public streets without first obtaining a permit from the city clerk.
(b)
Fee. The permit fee shall be in an amount as established by the city council from time to time.
(c)
Bond. The city council shall have the authority to require an applicant for a permit under this section to file a bond with his application conditioned to protect and save harmless the city from all claims for damages or injury to any persons by reason of the proposed work.
(Code 1987, § 13-103)
Sec. 62-14. - Use of rollerskates, rollerblades, skateboards, and bicycles in the central business district.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to rollerskate, rollerblade, ride a skateboard, or ride a bicycle on any public sidewalk or any public parking lot located within the area designated as the central business district on the city's zoning map.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to rollerskate, rollerblade or ride a skateboard on any public street within the area designated as the central business district on the city's zoning map.
(c)
On all sidewalks located outside the central business district, any person riding a bicycle upon such sidewalk shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian.
(d)
Not withstanding the foregoing provisions, the mayor and city council may designate an area or areas within the city central business district wherein it may be permitted for persons to rollerskate, rollerblade, ride a skateboard or ride a bicycle.
(Ord. No. 2007-002, 1-8-07; Ord. No. 2007-005, 4-9-07)
Secs. 62-15—62-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PERMITS

Sec. 62-36. - Application.
Every person required to secure a permit under the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided, shall submit a written application for such permit to the city clerk. The written application shall include the following:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant;
(2)
The purpose for which the application is submitted;
(3)
The nature and location of any work proposed to be done and the name of the person or firm who is to do such work;
(4)
The estimated cost of the proposed work; and
(5)
The date of commencement and date of completion of the proposed work and other dates or plans as may reasonably be required by the city clerk or the city council.
(Code 1987, § 13-104(1))
Sec. 62-37. - Fee.
Unless otherwise specifically provided, each application for a permit under this article shall be accompanied by a permit fee as established by the city council from time to time.
(Code 1987, § 13-104(2))
Sec. 62-38. - Issuance of receipts.
The city clerk shall issue a receipt to the applicant for the amount of the fee tendered with the application for a permit under this article, provided that such receipt shall not be construed as approval of the application.
(Code 1987, § 13-104(2)(a))
Sec. 62-39. - Rebate of fee.
Upon the disapproval of any application for which a fee has been submitted under the provisions of this article, the city clerk shall refund such fee.
(Code 1987, § 13-104(2)(b))
Sec. 62-40. - Review of application; issuance of permit.
Upon receipt of the application for a permit, the city clerk shall forward such application to the city council, which shall approve or disapprove such application within one month after receipt thereof. Upon receipt of an approved application from the city council, the city clerk shall issue a permit to the applicant therefor, which permit shall state the nature of the work to be done or activity to be carried out and bear the date of issuance and the signature of the city clerk.
(Code 1987, § 13-104(3))
Sec. 62-41. - Display.
All permits issued under this article shall be kept in a conspicuous place at the site of the work or activity to be engaged in.
Secs. 62-42—62-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STREET CONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 62-61. - Council resolution.
Whenever the improvement of any street or part thereof shall be deemed necessary by the city council, a resolution stating the nature and location of the proposed improvement shall be declared and published once a week for three consecutive weeks in the newspaper in which the county sheriff's advertisements are published. If the owners of a majority of the lineal feet of frontage of the land abutting on the proposed improvement do not, within 15 days after the last day of publication of such resolution, file with the city clerk a written protest against such improvement, contracts for the work to be done shall be entered into and assessments and liens shall be fixed in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-39-20.
(Code 1987, § 13-102(1))
Sec. 62-62. - Petition by property owners.
If the owners of a majority of the lineal feet of frontage of the land liable to assessment for a street construction or improvement shall petition the city council for such improvement, citing O.C.G.A. § 36-39-3 and designating by general description the improvement to be undertaken and the street or part thereof to be improved, it shall thereupon be the duty of the city council to proceed, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq., to cause such improvements to be made. In such cases, the council resolution, as specified in section 62-61, shall not be required.
(Code 1987, § 13-102(2))
Sec. 62-63. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or lay any pavement for or on any public street, sidewalk, curb, alley, or other public way, or to repair the same, without having first obtained a permit from the city clerk.
(Code 1987, § 13-102(3))
Sec. 62-64. - Bond.
Each applicant for a permit to construct or improve any pavement on any public street, sidewalk, curb, alley, or other public way, shall be required to file a bond in sufficient amount with surety to be approved by the city council, conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss or damage caused by, or resulting from, the work undertaken.
(Code 1987, § 13-102(4))
Sec. 62-65. - Specifications generally.
All street and sidewalk pavements and all curbing shall be laid in conformity with the specifications established or approved, from time to time, by the city council.
(Code 1987, § 13-102(5)(a))
Sec. 62-66. - Curb ramping.
The standard for construction of curbs on each side of any city street, or any connecting street or road for which curbs have been prescribed, shall be not less than one ramp per lineal block giving on the crosswalks at intersections. Such ramps shall be at least 40 inches wide and so constructed as to allow reasonable access to the crosswalk for physically handicapped persons.
(Code 1987, § 13-102(5)(b))
Sec. 62-67. - Barricades.
Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk, or other public place shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of the work, which barricades shall be protected by a light at nighttime.
(Code 1987, § 13-102(6))
Secs. 62-68—62-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PARADES, DEMONSTRATIONS, ASSEMBLIES AND PICKETING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Preventing or disrupting lawful procession, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-34; operation of motorcycles and motor vehicles in parades, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-7; funeral processions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-76.

Sec. 62-91. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Assembly means a group of two or more persons who are together for a common cause or purpose, who stand, walk, congregate or assemble upon any of the sidewalks, streets or public property of the city, who evidence their cause by signs, slogans, common dress, solicitation of money or membership, public speech or the distribution of written materials.
Demonstration and picketing are given their usual meaning, but in any event any such activity must first be defined as an "assembly" to be included in the context in this article.
Parade means any procession on a public street exception funerals, and military activities, containing ten or more persons or five or more vehicles.
(Code 1987, § 18-204(1))
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 62-92. - Permit—Required, when application due.
(a)
Any person desiring to stage a parade, demonstrate or assemble, or engage in picketing, on the public streets, sidewalks, or public area of the city shall make application for a permit to the city clerk not later than 4:00 p.m., three days prior to the day that such proposed activity is intended to be staged or carried out. Such application shall be filed with the city clerk in writing except that any application for activity on any of the state highways in the city must be filed 30 days prior to the planned activity.
(b)
At least 180 days shall elapse between the issuance of successive permits to the same person, corporation or group.
(Code 1987, § 18-204(2))
Sec. 62-93. - Same—Applications.
An application and permit shall be required for each activity coming under the provisions of this article; provided, however, only one application and permit shall be required for each proposed parade, demonstration, assembly, or picketing site and course of picketing.
(Code 1987, § 18-204(3))
Sec. 62-94. - Same—Consideration, issuance.
(a)
A permit required by this article shall be granted only after review and approval by the parade and assembly committee, which shall consist of the city manager, the chief of police and city attorney. The parade and assembly committee shall be empowered to determine and reasonably restrict the time and duration of the proposed activity, the number of persons to participate in such activity, the streets or locations where such activity shall be allowed, so as not to impair the health and safety and convenience of the public generally.
(b)
The parade and assembly committee shall consider at least the following factors before making its decision:
(1)
Traffic densities involved on the streets or sidewalks during the time for which the permit is requested.
(2)
Police and fire protection required and available at the time and place requested.
(3)
Street and sidewalk condition in the area requested.
(4)
Other public or private activities known to occur during the same time and place which would impact public safety and convenience.
(5)
Sanitary facilities available in the area requested.
(6)
Noise impact analysis for the time and area requested.
(7)
Any other matter which is likely to affect the public order, safety, health or welfare of the citizens including those participating in the activity.
(Code 1987, § 18-204(2))
Sec. 62-95. - DOT requirements.
Parades which are scheduled to pass over or cross any of the state highways which pass through the city must also be permitted by the state department of transportation. The city will assist in obtaining the correct permit; however, no city permit will be issued unless the required state permit is received.
(Code 1987, § 18-204(6))
Sec. 62-96. - Supervision requirement.
All activities coming under this article shall be conducted under the supervision of the person making application for the same, and shall be conducted in a peaceable and orderly manner in compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto.
(Code 1987, § 18-204(4))
Sec. 62-97. - Signs and banners.
In the conduct of activities coming under this article, no signs, shields or banners shall be placed or carried by any person upon the sidewalks of this city that extend beyond the width of the person's body or extend more than 24 inches above the person's head. Persons carrying any such signs, shields or banners shall be at least ten feet apart, shall not stand or loiter in front of any doorway, driveway intersection, and shall not interfere with the general flow of traffic, whether pedestrian or vehicular.
(Code 1987, § 18-204(5))
Sec. 62-98. - Unlawful activities.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to promote, organize or hold, or to assist in promoting, organizing or holding, or to take part or participate in any parade, assembly, picketing or other public demonstration in the streets, sidewalks or other public areas of the city, unless a permit therefor has been secured from the city clerk.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a parade, assembly or demonstration or picketing at any time other than the time specified in the permit therefor.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a parade, assembly or demonstration or picketing along, upon or over any street, sidewalk or public area other than those set out in the permit issued as provided in this article.
(Code 1987, § 18-204(7))
Sec. 62-99. - Revocation of permit.
If any participant during the course of the activity permitted under this article breaches any law of the United States, this state or any ordinance of the city and an arrest is made or citation issued, the permit may be immediately revoked by the chief of police or senior police officer on duty whereas the activity shall cease immediately.
(Code 1987, § 18-204(9))
ARTICLE V. - UTILITY ACCOMMODATION POLICY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2016-002, § I, adopted Feb. 15, 2016, supplied provisions to be added to this Code as Art. V, §§ 62-90—62-122. In order to maintain the existing numbering system and ease of use, at the discretion of the editor, these provisions have been redesignated as §§ 62-100—62-132 to read as set out herein.

Sec. 62-100. - Intent and purpose.
The City of Commerce (the "city") is vitally concerned with the use, construction within, and occupancy of all rights-of-way in the city as such rights-of-way are a valuable and limited resource which must be utilized to promote the public health, safety, welfare, economic development of the city and to protect public work infrastructure. Therefore, the city, under the authority of the Laws and Constitution of the State of Georgia, including but not limited to Article 9, Section 1, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Georgia Constitution, 36-1-20 and O.C.G.A. § 32-4-42(6), has adopted this ordinance for the purpose of regulating public and private entities which use the City rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-90), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-101. - Scope.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all utilities and facilities occupying the rights-of-way as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-91), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-102. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations have the meanings set forth herein. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning. References hereafter to "sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms whether or not capitalized.
City means the City of Commerce, Georgia.
Codified ordinances means the Codified Ordinances of the City of Commerce, Georgia.
Construct means, but shall not be limited to, dig, bore, tunnel, trench, excavate, obstruct, install or remove signs, or facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the rights-of-way. Construct shall also include the act of opening and/or cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface that is any part of the right-of-way.
Construction means, but shall not be limited to, the act or process of digging, boring, tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing, installing or removing signs or facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the rights-of-way. Construction shall also include the act of opening, boring and/or cutting into the surface of any part of the right-of-way.
Director means the City Manager of the City of Commerce, Georgia, or his or her designee;
Emergency means a condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to life, health, or safety of a person, or of significant damage or loss of real or personal property;
Facility or facilities means any tangible thing, including but not limited to pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, appurtenances, appliances and future technology of any utility in, on, along, over, or under any part of the rights-of-way within the city;
Facilities representative(s) means the specifically identified agent(s)/employee(s) of a utility who are authorized to direct field activities of that utility and serve as official notice agent(s) for facilities related information. Utility shall be required to make sure at least one of its facilities representatives available at all times to receive notice of, and immediately direct response to, facilities related emergencies or situations.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission or any successor thereto.
Permit means an authorization which grants permission to conduct specific regulated activities on, in, over, under or within any public right-of-way, and which may be subject to conditions specified in a written agreement with the city or in a related provision of this Code of Ordinances.
Right(s)-of-way means the surface and space in, on, above, within, over, below, under or through any real property in which the city has an interest in law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a trustee for the public, including, but not limited to any public street, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, or any other place, area, or real property owned by or under the legal or equitable control of the city, now or hereafter, that consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may be used for the purposes of constructing, operating, repairing or replacing facilities.
Service(s) means the offering of any service by a utility for a fee directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the public, or alternatively, the provision of any service by a utility between two or more points for a proprietary purpose to a class of users other than the general public.
Service agreement means a valid license agreement, service agreement, franchise agreement, or operating agreement issued by the city or state pursuant to law and accepted by a utility or entered into by and between the city and a utility, which allows such utility to operate or provide service within the geographic limits of the city.
Street or streets means the surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all the streets, alleys, avenues, roads, bridges, tunnels and public places of the city within the corporate limits of the city, as the same now exist or may be hereafter extended or altered, and any location thereon, thereover or thereunder, and any portion thereof.
Transfer means the disposal by the utility, directly or indirectly, by gift, assignment, sale, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of more than 50 percent at one time of the ownership or controlling interest in the facilities, or of more than 50 percent cumulatively over the term of a written approval of registration of such interests to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, trust, or association, or person or group of persons acting in concert.
Unused facilities means facilities located in the rights-of-way which have remained unused for 12 months and for which the utility is unable to provide the city with a plan detailing the procedure by which the utility intends to begin actively using such facilities within the next 12 months, or that it has a potential purchaser or user of the facilities who will be actively using the facilities within the next 12 months, or, that the availability of such facilities is required by the utility to adequately and efficiently operate its facilities;
Utility or utilities means all privately, publicly, or cooperatively owned systems for producing, transmitting, or distributing communication, data, information, telecommunication, cable television, video services, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water/sewer, steam, fire and police signals, traffic control devices, and street lighting systems, and housing or conduit for any of the foregoing, which used to refer to the owner, operator, utility, service, contractor or subcontractor, or any agent thereof, of any above-described utility or utility facility.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-92), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-103. - Registration required.
Each utility who occupies, uses or has facilities in the rights-of-way at the time of passage of this article, including by lease, sublease or assignment, to operate facilities located in the rights-of-way, unless specifically exempted by state or federal law or this Code, shall file a registration statement with the department within 90 days of the effective date of this article.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-93), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-104. - Registration procedure.
The registration information provided to the city shall be on a form approved by the city and include, but not be limited to:
(1)
The name, legal status (i.e. partnership, corporation, etc.), street address, email address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the utility filing the registration statement (the "registrant"). If the registrant is not the owner of the facility in the right-of-way, the registration shall include the name, street address, email address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the owner;
(2)
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one or more facilities representative(s). Current information regarding how to contact the facilities representative(s) in an emergency shall be provided at the time of filing a registration and shall be updated as necessary to assure accurate contact information is available to the city at all times;
(3)
A copy, if requested, of the utility's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements.
(4)
A copy, if requested, of the service agreement, if applicable or other legal instrument that authorizes the utility to use or occupy the right-of-way for the purpose described in the registration.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-94), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-105. - Incomplete registration.
If a registration is incomplete, the director shall notify the registrant and shall provide a reasonable period of time in which to complete the registration. If a registration is complete, the director shall so notify the utility in writing.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-95), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-106. - Acceptance of the registration shall not convey title in the rights-of-way.
Acceptance of the registration is only the nonexclusive, limited right to occupy rights-of-way in the city for the limited purposes stated in the acceptance. Acceptance of the registration does not excuse a utility from obtaining permits required by city ordinances nor from obtaining appropriate access or pole attachment agreements before using the facilities of others, including the city. Acceptance of the registration does not excuse a utility from notifying the city of construction as required herein.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-96), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-107. - Facilities in place without registration.
Beginning one year after the effective registration is required but has not been obtained unless specifically exempted by law, and for which no valid service agreement exists with the city, may be deemed to be a nuisance and an unauthorized use of the rights-of-way. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including, but not limited to abating the nuisance; taking possession of the facilities, evicting the utility from the right-of-way; prosecuting the violator; and/or any other remedy provided by city ordinance or otherwise allowed in law or in equity.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-97), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-108. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any utility to excavate or to construct, install, maintain, renew, remove or relocate facilities in, on, along, over or under the public roads of the city without a utility permit from the department of planning in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-98), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-109. - Permit procedure.
Utility permits shall be obtained from the director (or such other person as the city manager may designate) upon application made on forms prescribed by the department of planning. The written application shall include the following:
(1)
The name and address of the utility;
(2)
The nature, extent, and location of any work proposed to be done, along with satisfactory plans as attachments showing in detail the location of the proposed facility or operations as described in the permit application. The plans shall show the size or capacity of facilities to be installed; their relationship to street features such as right-of-way lines, pavement edge, structures, etc., horizontal and vertical clearance to critical elements of the roadway and any other information necessary to evaluate the impact on the street and its operation;
(3)
The name and address of the person or firm who is to do such work;
(4)
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one or more facilities representative(s);
(5)
The projected dates for the work to be started and finished;
(6)
An indemnity bond or other acceptable security in an amount to be set by the city to pay any damages to any part of the city road system or other city property or to any city employee or member of the public caused by activity or work of the utility performed under authority of the permit issued;
(7)
A copy, if requested, of the registrant's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements; and
(8)
A copy, if requested, of the service agreement, if applicable or other legal instrument that authorizes the utility to use or occupy the right-of-way for the purpose described in the application.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-99), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-110. - Permit fees.
Fees shall be determined by the director, subject to the approval by resolution of the city council. A fee schedule shall be available at the offices of the director and the city clerk and open for public inspection.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-100), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-111. - Issuance of permit.
If the director determines the applicant has satisfied the following requirements, the director may issue a permit.
(1)
Whether issuing of the approval will be consistent with this chapter; and
(2)
Whether applicant has submitted a complete application and has secured all certificates and other authorizations required by law, if applicable, in order to construct facilities in the manner proposed by the applicant; and
(3)
The impact on safety, visual quality of the streets, traffic flow, and other users of the right-of-way and the difficulty and length of time of the project, construction or maintenance.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-101), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-112. - Emergency situations.
(a)
Each utility shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, notify the director of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be an emergency. The utility may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary in order to respond to the emergency. A utility who engages in an emergency excavation shall take all reasonable precautions to avoid or minimize damage to any existing facilities.
(b)
In the event that the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding utility facilities, the city may attempt to contact the affected utility or facilities representative. The city may take whatever action it deems necessary in order to respond to the emergency, including cut or move any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, appliances, or other parts of the facilities. The city shall not incur any liability to the utility, for such emergency actions, and the cost of such shall be paid by each utility affected by the emergency.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-102), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-113. - Effective period of permit.
(a)
Each permit shall have a set commencement and expiration date based on information provided in the applicant's permit application.
(b)
The permit shall remain in place construction is completed or until its expiration date unless the utility is in default. The director may give written notice of default to a utility if it is determined that a utility has:
(1)
Violated any provision or requirement of the issuance or acceptance of a permit application or any law of the city, state, or federal government;
(2)
Attempted to evade any provision or requirement of this chapter;
(3)
Practiced any fraud or deceit upon the city; or
(4)
Made a material misrepresentation or omission of fact in its permit application.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-103), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-114. - Cancellation for cause.
If a utility fails to cure a default within 20 working days after such notice is provided to the utility by the city, then such default shall be a material breach and city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity to terminate the permit. If the director decides there is cause or reason to terminate, the following procedure shall be followed:
(1)
City shall serve a utility with a written notice of the reason or cause for proposed termination and shall allow a utility a minimum of 15 calendar days to cure its breach.
(2)
If the utility fails to cure within 15 calendar days, the city may declare the permit terminated.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-104), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-115. - Expiration of permit.
If work is not begun within six months of the date of issuance, the permit will automatically expire.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-105), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-116. - Utility accommodation manual adopted.
The 2009 Utility Accommodation Policy and Standards manual, including all references contained therein to codes, rules, regulations, schedules, forms and appendix items, except Appendix B (Permit forms and supporting documents), promulgated by the State of Georgia Department of Transportation, as may be amended from time to time is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated in the article as if fully set forth herein, subject to the amendments and modification contained in this chapter. A copy of the manual shall be maintained at the offices of the director or his designee and open for public inspection. Any conflicts between the provisions of this article and the manual shall be resolved in favor of the manual. References to state personnel, agencies, and fees shall be interpreted, where required, as meaning the City of Commerce municipal equivalents.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-90), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-117. - Protection of traffic and roadway.
Unless specifically in the permit, no utility may occupy the city rights-of-way unless sufficient space is available so that the free flow and safety of traffic and other capacity considerations are not unduly impaired and the installation does not prevent the department from reasonably maintaining the streets, structures, traffic control devices and other appurtenant facilities, and further provided that maintenance and operations of the facilities do not jeopardize the traffic, street structure, other users of the right-of-way or the right-of-way itself.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-107), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-118. - Grading.
If the grades or lines of any street within the city right-of-way are changed at any time by the city during the term of the permit and this change involves an area in which the utility's facilities are located, then the utility shall, at its own cost and expense and upon the request of the city upon reasonable notice, protect or promptly alter or relocate the facilities, or any part thereof, so as to conform with such new grades or lines. In the event the utility refuses or neglects to so protect, alter, or relocate all or part of the facilities, the city shall have the right to break through, remove, alter, or relocated all or any part of the facilities without any liability to the utility and the utility shall pay to the city the costs incurred in connection with such breaking through, removal, alteration, or relocation.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-108), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-119. - Installation of poles and other wireholding structures and relocation.
Unless otherwise provided in a valid service agreement, no placement of any pole or wireholding structure of the utility is to be considered a vested interest in the right-of-way, and such poles or structures are to be removed, relocated underground, or modified by the utility at its own expense whenever the city determines that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby. The facilities shall be so located and installed as to cause minimum interference with the rights and convenience of property owners.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-109), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-120. - Locate requests.
As provided in O.C.G.A § 25-9-6 (the Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act) and other applicable state law currently in place or as amended, no utility shall commence, perform, or engage in blasting or in excavating with mechanized excavating facilities unless and until the utility planning the blasting or excavating has given 48 hours' notice by submitting a locate request to the utility protection center, beginning the next working day after such notice is provided, excluding hours during days other than working days.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-110), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-121. - Repairs.
Each utility shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the rights-of-way and adjoining property or other facilities which it or its facilities damage.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-111), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-122. - Street repairs.
A utility shall be liable, at its own cost and expense, to replace, restore or repair, any street, facilities or property or structure thereon, thereunder, thereover or adjacent thereto that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of the construction or installation, operation, upgrade, repair or removal of facilities to a condition as good as or better than its condition before the work performed by the utility that caused such disturbance or damage. If the utility does not commence such replacement or repair after 20 working days following written notice from the city, the city or the owner of the affected structure or property may make such replacement or repair and the utility shall pay the reasonable and actual cost of the same.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-112), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-123. - Inspections.
The utility shall make the construction site available to the director and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable times during the execution and upon completion of the construction.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-113), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-124. - Stop work order.
At any time, including the time of inspection, the director may order the immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the public, violates any law, or which violates the terms and conditions of the permit and/or this chapter or issue an order to correct work which does not conform to the permit and/or applicable standards, conditions or codes.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-114), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-125. - Notice of completion.
When the construction under any permit is completed, the utility shall notify the department.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-115), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-126. - Additional permits required.
The utility shall obtain all construction, building or other permits or approvals as according to city ordinance, state or federal law. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all requirements of laws, shall complete work in a way as to not cause any unnecessary or unauthorized obstructions of sidewalks, streets, waterways or railways, and is responsible for all work done in the rights-of-way regardless of who performs the work. No rights-of-way obstruction or excavation may be performed when seasonally prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work, except in the case of an emergency as outlined in Article II, Section 7 (B) [of the Georgia Constitution].
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-116), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-127. - Penalty.
Every utility convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 per violation. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the city may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-117), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-128. - Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-118), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-129. - Reservation of regulatory and police powers.
The city by issuing a written approval of registration under this chapter, does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen the lawful powers and rights, which it has now or may be hereafter vested in the city under the Constitution and Laws of the United States, State of Georgia and the City Charter, and under the provisions of the City's Codified Ordinances to regulate the use of the rights-of-way. The utility by applying for and being issued a written permit, is deemed to acknowledge that all lawful powers and rights, regulatory power, or police power, or otherwise as are or the same may be from time to time vested in or reserved to the city, shall be in full force and effect and subject to the exercise thereof by the city at any time. A utility is deemed to acknowledge that its interests are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public and is deemed to agree to comply with all applicable general laws enacted by the city pursuant to such powers. In particular, all utilities shall comply with city zoning and other land use requirements pertaining to the placement and specifications of facilities.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-119), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-130. - Compliance.
No person shall be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter by reason of any failure of city to enforce compliance.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-120), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-131. - Appeal of administrative decisions.
All appeals provided for by this chapter and any notification to the city required by this chapter shall be in writing and sent via certified mail to the director as specified in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-121), 2-15-16)
Sec. 62-132. - Section headings.
Section headings are for convenience only and shall not be used to interpret any portion of this article.
(Ord. No. 2016-002, § I(62-122), 2-15-16)
