Chapter 54 - PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.
State Law reference— Disabled veterans and blind persons engaging in peddling, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1; Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; Transient Merchants Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 54-1—54-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PEDDLERS

Sec. 54-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Pecuniary gain means the sale for profit the net proceeds of which will constitute income for purposes other than religious or charitable purposes.
Peddlers means persons who sell for pecuniary gain goods or services or who solicit orders for goods or services which are to be sold for pecuniary gain from any location other than a permanent business location within the city. The term "peddlers" shall not include sellers of fresh or unprocessed fruits, vegetables or other produce or agricultural products who deliver or sell such produce door to door or from a validly parked vehicle.
Permanent business location means an address established with and recognized by the U.S. Postal Service upon which are improvements complying with the zoning, fire and building codes of the city.
(Code 1987, § 18-205(1))
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 54-27. - Prohibited areas.
(a)
No peddler shall be allowed to operate from or upon any public street, sidewalk, park or school yard area within the city.
(b)
No peddler shall be allowed to approach or venture upon the property of private residences or businesses for the purpose of soliciting the sale of or the selling of goods or services unless such peddler has first obtained permission of the person or legal entity which has lawful possession of the premises involved. The burden of showing such permission shall be upon the peddler involved.
(Code 1987, § 18-205(2))
Sec. 54-28. - Permit required; authorized activities.
Peddlers may, after first obtaining a license to do so from the city clerk, operate in the following manner:
(1)
Operations shall be confined to premises which are obtained by permission in writing of the property owner.
(2)
Such premises shall be inspected by the chief of police to determine that safe entry and exit is provided for between the premises and any public street or highway.
(3)
Parking places shall be clearly marked for motor vehicles of customers and all such parking areas shall be located on the premises for which permission is obtained. The peddler shall be responsible to ensure that no customer parks a vehicle or trespasses over other private property in reaching the premises upon which the peddling activity is carried out.
(4)
A minimum of five vehicle parking places shall be required.
(5)
Adequate sanitary restroom facilities shall be provided on the premises.
(6)
Any customer purchasing goods from a peddler shall be provided at the time of sale a written bill of sale which warrants title to the goods sold and which is signed by the true and lawful owner of the goods sold, such signature being affixed in the presence of a notary public of the state. All costs of compliance with this section shall be borne by the peddler.
(7)
In addition to compliance with chapter 18, pertaining to businesses, any peddler who operates in the city shall provide the chief of police with an application and shall post a bond in cash or provide a surety bond from a licensed insurer in an amount set by the city council. Such bonds shall be surrendered within 30 days of the cessation of operations in the city by the peddler provided the terms of the bond are complied
with. The peddler shall provide the city written notice of the date of cessation of operations.
(Code 1987, § 18-205(3))
Sec. 54-29. - Violation.
A violation of this article shall be recognized as a public nuisance and, upon conviction in the municipal court, such violator shall be fined as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1987, § 18-205(4))
Secs. 54-30—54-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Disabled veterans and blind persons engaging in peddling, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1; Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; Transient Merchants Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

Sec. 54-51. - Exemption.
This article shall not apply to any locally established organization or church operated exclusively for charitable or religious purposes if the solicitations are in the form of collection or contributions at the regular assemblies of any such organization or church.
(Code 1987, § 18-208(3))
Sec. 54-52. - Registration required.
Any person who wishes to solicit donations or contributions for, or to sell any insignia or novelty on the streets of the city on behalf of, or under the sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization shall be required to register such solicitation or sale with the chief of police at least 48 hours in advance of such event and to obtain a permit therefor.
(Code 1987, § 18-208(1))
Sec. 54-53. - Form of registration.
The registration required by this article shall be in writing, shall be signed by the chief officer of the club or organization, and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name and object of the charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale to which the registration relates;
(2)
The day or days on which the solicitation or sale will take place;
(3)
The object for which the funds to be derived from the solicitation or sale will be utilized; and
(4)
The name and address of the chief officer of the club or organization conducting or sponsoring the solicitation or sale.
(5)
The registration shall have attached to it proof that the club or organization has registered with the Georgia Secretary of State's Office as required by Georgia Law or a statement that such club or organization is exempt from such state registration in accordance with state law.
(6)
The locations at which the solicitation will take place to include all streets or highways with the city limits where such solicitation shall take place.
(Code 1987, § 18-208(2); Ord. No. 2005-001A, 2-14-05)
Sec. 54-54. - Display of permit.
Charitable solicitors shall be required to exhibit their permits at the request of any citizen.
(Code 1987, § 18-208(4))
Sec. 54-55. - Unlawful acts.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to execute a registration which contains any false statement.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit donations or contributions or sell any insignia or novelty on the streets of the city purportedly in behalf of, or under the sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization which does not in fact exist.
(Code 1987, § 18-208(5))
