Chapter 74 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The city's cable television franchise agreements are on file in the office of the city clerk.
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62; utilities, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Municipalities prohibited from granting franchise for cable television within unincorporated area of county, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-3; avoiding or attempting to avoid charges for use of cable television service, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 74-1—74-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS

Sec. 74-31. - Findings.
The city finds as follows:
(1)
The city has become aware of the availability for residential use of dish-type satellite signal receiving stations;
(2)
It is deemed the desire of the city to both permit reasonable use of property owners of their property and to protect the rights of other property owners;
(3)
The city is aware of its duty to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city;
(4)
The city has determined it will not prohibit the use of such receiving stations, but will permit their use subject to reasonable regulations; and
(5)
The city has determined that the placement of such stations shall be only in the rear portion of the property and such station shall be otherwise regulated.
(Code 1991, § 26-102(A))
Sec. 74-32. - Location.
(a)
Dish-type satellite receiving stations ("stations"), subject to the regulations of this section, may be located within the city limits.
(b)
Stations shall not be linked to receivers which are not located on the same lot or property as the station.
(c)
Stations shall be located in the rear yard only and behind the principal dwelling or structure located on the lot and shall be located so that however turned or otherwise used, all parts of the station will be set back at least six feet from the side yard lines and shall be set back from the rear lot line no less than six feet or half the depth of the rear yard, whichever is greater.
(d)
The height of the station, should a dish antennae be turned perpendicular to the ground, should not extend beyond 15 feet, and the maximum diameter of any dish antennae should not exceed 12 feet.
(e)
No installation or erection of the station shall commence before a permit is obtained from the city building inspector or his designee.
(f)
All stations, together with all other structures, patios, decks and impervious surfaces (excluding driveways), may occupy an area of land no larger than 50 percent of the rear yard.
(g)
Vegetation screening and/or fencing with a minimum height of six feet shall be required between the station and residential properties which abut the rear yard between the antennae and any street that borders the front or corner side yard of the property in question, and between the antennae and residential property across such a front or side street, so as to screen the station from the view of persons inside nearby residential properties and from persons on those public streets.
(Code 1991, § 26-102(B)—(H))
