Chapter 34 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; civil emergencies, ch. 30; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 46; traffic and vehicles, ch. 78.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 34-1—34-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Municipal court judge, § XVIII.
State Law reference— Contracts to furnish municipal court services authorized, O.C.G.A. § 15-7-80 et seq.; powers of presiding officer in court of a municipal corporation to bind over or commit criminal offenders to jail, O.C.G.A. § 17-7-22; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.; jurisdiction of municipal courts and magistrate courts to abate nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5; agreements between private entities and municipal court judges for probation services, O.C.G.A. § 42-8-102; establishment of municipal courts authorized and jurisdiction thereof, Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I.

Sec. 34-31. - Creation.
There is established a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Madison, Georgia, which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of the city and to punish for a violation of such laws and ordinances. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by state laws, to subpoena witnesses, to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to try all offenses occurring within the territorial limits of the city, including traffic cases, which, under state laws, are placed within the jurisdiction of city courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all amendatory laws. The presiding officer of such court shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the mayor and city council and shall be known as the judge of the municipal court. The court shall be convened at city hall or such other place within the city as designated by the judge of the municipal court, with the approval of the mayor.
(Code 1991, § 5-101)
Sec. 34-32. - Judge.
(a)
The judge of the municipal court shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia, shall be at least 25 years of age, and shall have practiced law for at least three years. The mayor and city council shall provide for the compensation for the judge.
(b)
The mayor and city council shall have authority to appoint standby associate judges to serve in the absence of the judge. Any standby associate judge shall possess the qualifications set forth in subsection (a) of this section for the judge of the municipal court and have the same powers granted to the judge of the municipal court.
(Code 1991, § 5-201)
Sec. 34-33. - Sessions of court.
(a)
A regular session of the municipal court shall be held once each month at a fixed hour on a fixed day as may be determined by the judge; provided, that any session may be dispensed with when there is no business pending in the court or no cases are ready for trial.
(b)
The municipal court may hold special sessions of court when, in the judge's opinion, it is necessary or there is urgent cause for the trial of accused persons before the next regularly scheduled session of court.
(Code 1991, § 5-202)
Sec. 34-34. - Clerk of court.
(a)
There shall be a clerk of court who shall be appointed or removed by the city manager.
(b)
The clerk of court shall:
(1)
Prepare all subpoenas and warrants and maintain a docket that will show the name of the person for whom the subpoena or warrant was issued, its date, at whose instance it was issued and to whom it was delivered;
(2)
Be the custodian of the seal of the court and have authority to certify copies of all official records of the court and to maintain the proper books of accounts, including receipts and disbursements, which the court may maintain; and
(3)
Perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him by the judge.
(Code 1991, § 5-203)
Sec. 34-35. - Rules.
The municipal court shall be controlled by the rules of the superior courts as far as they are legally applicable to those courts and a sound construction of the Charter and ordinances of the city.
(Code 1991, § 5-204)
Sec. 34-36. - Practice.
The city shall have the opening and conclusion of each case, unless the defendant introduces no evidence; then he shall be entitled to the conclusion. The city shall announce first whether ready for trial and, if not ready, shall be held to as strict a showing for a continuance as the defendant. The rules of evidence shall be the same as in the superior court, as far as applicable to the case on trial.
(Code 1991, § 5-205)
Sec. 34-37. - Persons charged with offense; summons and trial.
Any person who is charged with an offense against any of the provisions of this Code, or any ordinances of the city, shall be informed by summons in writing served on him of the nature and cause of his accusation; shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his behalf; shall have a speedy trial; shall be confronted with the witnesses against him and have the privilege of cross examination as in the superior courts of the state. The same rules as to examination of witnesses and the evidence adduced as obtained in such courts, as far as they are applicable to city courts, shall be applicable to cases before the municipal court. The party accused shall have the privilege of defending himself, by counsel or by himself, or both, whichever shall seem proper to him. No one shall be condemned, fined or punished without a chance of being heard in his defense.
(Code 1991, § 5-206)
Sec. 34-38. - Form and execution of summons.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of court in all cases where complaint is made or information given of any violation of this Code or ordinances of the city, whether the party is to be confined in jail or not, to issue a summons directed to the accused requiring such offender to appear in municipal court to answer such charge, which summons shall set forth the offense, and the time and place of trial; bear test in the name of the judge of the municipal court; be signed officially by the clerk of court or the chief of police; and directed to the chief of police or any police officer of the city to be executed, which police officer shall execute the summons by serving a copy on the accused or leaving it at his place of residence.
(Code 1991, § 5-207)
Sec. 34-39. - Witness—Subpoena.
Whenever the attendance of any witness may be required before the municipal court to establish any fact, the clerk of court shall issue a subpoena, directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial and the parties to the case, and bearing test in the name of the judge of the municipal court, which subpoena shall be served as other summons by any police officer.
(Code 1991, § 5-208)
Sec. 34-40. - Same—Defaulting.
If any person summoned as a witness shall fail, neglect or refuse to attend a trial, or render at the time a sufficient excuse in the judgment of the municipal court, the defaulting witness shall be liable to a fine not to exceed $100.00; and, if the cause shall be continued on account of the witness's absence, the court may issue an attachment against such witness requiring him to show cause on the day appointed for trial why he should not be further dealt with for contempt. Any police officer, by virtue of such attachment, shall arrest and confine the person, so as to have him before the court at such time as may be appointed for further hearing of the original complaint.
(Code 1991, § 5-209)
Sec. 34-41. - Continuances.
Where the ends of justice require it, cases may be continued. All continuances shall be addressed to the sound legal discretion of the municipal court under the rules governing the superior courts of this state.
(Code 1991, § 5-210)
Sec. 34-42. - Plea of guilty in absence of defendant.
Any party against whom any complaint is lodged or information given may file a plea of guilty under such regulations and upon such terms as the municipal court may prescribe; and, if such party cannot attend the trial, the court may pass such order or sentence in the case as if the party were personally present.
(Code 1991, § 5-211)
Sec. 34-43. - Persons implicated to be tried.
If on the trial of any cause before the municipal court it appears that any other person besides the one on trial has violated a provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, he may then and there be tried if present unless the case is continued for legal cause.
(Code 1991, § 5-212)
Sec. 34-44. - Contempt of court.
The municipal court judge may punish for contempt a person who disobeys an order of the court or who obstructs or interferes with the proceedings of the court or the enforcement of its orders.
(Code 1991, § 5-213)
Sec. 34-45. - Docket.
A docket shall be kept in the office of the clerk of court on which shall appear the name of every defendant charged with a violation of this Code or any city ordinances, or of any offense over which the municipal court has jurisdiction; and, at the trial of all cases in the municipal court, the clerk of court shall record opposite the statement of the case the punishment administered and the date; and the clerk of court shall enter, under the municipal court judge's sentence, the final disposition of the case, that is, whether the fine, if any was collected and the date of such collection, and when and to whom such amounts were turned over by the clerk of court.
(Code 1991, § 5-214)
Sec. 34-46. - Enforcement of penalties against corporations.
Whenever a corporation shall violate any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, a warrant shall issue against such corporation for violating such provisions; and the clerk of court shall issue a copy of such warrant, which shall be served by the chief of police or any police officer of the city upon any officer of the corporation in the city; and the police officer serving such copy shall at the time notify such person upon whom such service is made of the time and place of trial, and shall make an entry of such service upon the warrant, showing the time of service and upon whom the service was made, and return the warrant to the municipal court, and docket the case, which case shall stand for trial in the order which other cases against individuals for violation of ordinances of the city are tried. If on the trial the defendant corporation fails to appear, or appearing fails to plead, the judge of the municipal court shall cause to be entered a plea of not guilty, and trial shall proceed as though the defendant has appeared and pleaded. Upon conviction of any corporation, there shall be rendered judgment against it for the fine imposed by the presiding officer, together with all costs of prosecution, upon which judgment the clerk of court shall issue an execution against the defendant, which shall be levied and collected by the chief of police as tax executions in favor of the city are allowed by law to be levied and collected.
(Code 1991, § 5-215)
Sec. 34-47. - Appearance bond—Security requirement, maximum amount.
The chief of police, a member of the police department, the municipal court judge, the sheriff of the county, or his deputy may take bond, with security or without security, at their discretion, in a sum not exceeding $3,000.00 per charge for the appearance of any party accused or suspected of being guilty of a violation of any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, or any offense over which the municipal court has jurisdiction, to stand to and abide by his trial before the municipal court, and also of witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced in such court.
(Code 1991, § 5-216)
Sec. 34-48. - Same—Failure or refusal to give; subsequent confinement or guard.
If either party or witness shall fail or refuse to give the bond and security as required of them, or either of them, such person so failing or refusing may be confined to the county jail, or other place in the county as may be directed by the municipal court judge, so as to be present to abide the trial or to testify as the case may be.
(Code 1991, § 5-217)
Sec. 34-49. - Same—Forfeiture for failure to appear; service of rule.
All bail taken under this article shall be special bail, and the power of the security over the principal shall be the same as in the special bail. Upon the failure of any principal to appear in any bond or recognizance given by a person charged with a violation of any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, or of any offense over which the municipal court has jurisdiction, or by a witness to appear and testify, the judge shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on such bond to show cause on a day named in the rule, not to be less than ten days from the passage of such rule, why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond. A copy of such rule shall be served upon the principal and security by any officer or member of the police force at least five days before the time set for hearing the rule.
(Code 1991, § 5-218)
Sec. 34-50. - City jail construction and staffing.
(a)
In every case in which any court within the city shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of the state or any ordinance of the city, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fee.
(b)
At the time of posting a bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of the state or an ordinance of the city, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted; and in every case in which any court within the city shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be paid over as provided under subsection (d) of this section.
(c)
Such sums required by subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the peace officers' annuity and benefit fund or O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 concerning the judges of the probate courts retirement fund.
(d)
The sums provided for in subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk of court or court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the county by the tenth day of the month following the month in which such sums are collected. Such sums paid over to the county shall be placed by the county board of commissioners into a special account to be known as the county jail fund.
(e)
Moneys collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended by the county solely and exclusively for constructing, operating and staffing county jails, county correctional institutions and detention facilities of the county, or for the purpose of contracting for such facilities with other cities, the state, counties or other political subdivisions as authorized by Ga. Const. art. IX, § III, ¶ I. The county jail fund and moneys collected pursuant to this section to be placed in the county jail fund may be pledged as security for the payment of bonds issued for the construction of county jails, county correctional institutions and detention facilities of the county.
(Code 1991, § 5-219)
