Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 8-1—8-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTIONS

Sec. 8-19. - Permit required.
No person shall begin a building project on land in the county without first obtaining a permit from the county commissioners' office, in the manner specified in this article.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 1)
Sec. 8-20. - Interpretations.
The building official is hereby authorized to render interpretations of this Code and the adopted state codes and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of their provisions. Such interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this article. Such policies and procedures shall not have the force and effect of law and shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this Code or in the adopted state codes.
Sec. 8-21. - General standards for issuance of permit.
(a)
The county commissioners' office shall issue a permit hereunder when it finds:
(1)
That the person requesting said permit has submitted plans sufficient for the building inspector to determine that said building project complies with the minimum state building code standards as set out and defined in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.; and
(2)
That the health, welfare and safety of the public will not be unreasonably impaired.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official or building inspector means the qualified building official or qualified building inspector as designated by the county.
Exempted building means any of the following:
(1)
Any building whose peak design rate of energy usage for heating, cooling, ventilation, and lighting is less than one watt or 3.4 British thermal units (BTUs) per hour per square foot of floor area for all purposes;
(2)
Any building which is neither mechanically heated nor mechanically cooled;
(3)
Any mobile home; and
(4)
Any building owned or leased in whole or in part by the United States.
Exterior envelope means those elements of a building which enclose conditioned spaces through which thermal energy may be transferred to or from the exterior.
New building means any building on which final design is commenced after the adoption of the International Energy Conservation Code under this article.
Public building means any building which is open to the public during normal business hours and is not an exempted building, including the following:
(1)
Any building which provides facilities or shelter for public assembly or which is used for educational, office, or institutional purposes;
(2)
Any inn, hotel, motel, sports arena, supermarket, transportation terminal, retail store, restaurant, or other commercial establishment which provides services or retails merchandise;
(3)
Any portion of an industrial plant building used primarily as office space; and
(4)
Any building owned by the state or a political subdivision or instrumentality thereof, including libraries, museums, schools, hospitals, auditoriums, sports arenas, and university buildings.
Renovated building means either of the following:
(1)
A building undergoing alteration of the exterior envelope; heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems; water heating systems; or lighting systems, for which the aggregate cost of alteration exceeds ten percent of the assessed value of the building immediately prior to such alteration; or
(2)
A building undergoing alteration in the physical configuration or interior space, for which the aggregate cost of alteration exceeds one-fourth of the assessed value of the building immediately prior to such alteration.
State minimum standard codes means the following codes:
(1)
International Building Code (ICC);
(2)
National Electrical Code (NFPA);
(3)
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC);
(4)
International Mechanical Code (ICC);
(5)
International Plumbing Code (ICC);
(6)
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings (ICC);
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code (ICC);
(8)
International Fire Code (ICC);
(9)
International Existing Building Code (ICC);
(10)
International Property Maintenance Code (ICC); and
(11)
Any other codes deemed appropriate by the board of commissioners for the safety and welfare of the state's citizens.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 2)
Sec. 8-22. - Construction and supervision.
All work for which a permit is granted hereunder shall be construed according to the specifications established by the state as amended from time to time. The county manager will keep a set of codes available for review at the office of the building inspector for use by applicants.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 3)
Sec. 8-23. - Permit information.
Every person required to procure a building permit under the provisions of this article shall submit a written application for such permit to the county board of commissioners. The written application shall state the following:
(1)
The name and address of the contractor;
(2)
The name and address of the property owner;
(3)
The purpose for which the application is submitted; and
(4)
A drawing or plans showing the project sufficient to show compliance with said minimum codes. In the event the county does not have a currently certified inspector, a professional report as set out in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d) may be submitted.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 4)
Sec. 8-24. - Issuance of permit.
After a review of the application, the county shall either issue or deny the request for permit in writing. If the permit is approved, the permit shall be valid for the permitted site until released or terminated pursuant to the terms of this article. If the permit is not approved, the building inspector will enumerate in writing what changes need to be made to bring the project into compliance with the said minimum state building codes.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 5)
Sec. 8-25. - Display of permit.
It shall be the duty of any operator hereunder to display the permit issued to him in a conspicuous place at the site of the driveway. It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit such permit at or about any location not covered thereby, or to misrepresent the number of the permit or the date of expiration of the permit.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 6)
Sec. 8-26. - State licensure with county.
Prior to receiving the permit, all contractors hereunder shall file with the county a copy of their state license.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 7)
Sec. 8-27. - Violation.
(a)
Should the building inspector determine that the contractor or property owner is in violation of the state building codes at any time during the construction or prior to the issuance of a permit for occupation, the inspector shall issue a deficiency notice stating the terms of the violation together with a reasonable time to resolve the issue.
(b)
If, after notice and a reasonable time to resolve the violation of the state building codes, the contractor or property owner have not brought the project up to standard, the building inspector may either issue an immediate stop-work order or may cite the contractor or property owner for said violation and file said citation with the magistrate court of the county, and a hearing will be scheduled within 30 days of said citation.
(c)
At said hearing, the building inspector shall present the issue to the magistrate and show:
(1)
The violation;
(2)
Attempts at resolving the violation short of sanctions; and
(3)
What would be required to bring the project up to code.
The contractor or property owner would then have an opportunity to respond to the allegations. All evidence would be presented under the rules of evidence governing the magistrate courts of the state in existence at that time.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 8)
Sec. 8-28. - Penalty.
Any contractor or property owner who performs activity in violation of this article shall be subject to punishment according to section 1-4, under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20. In addition, if a contractor shall be in violation of any terms of the minimum state building codes, he may not apply for or be granted any new building permit until said violation is resolved.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 9)
Sec. 8-29. - Appeal.
Any appeal will be subject to the rules of appeal as applied to magistrate courts of the state as amended from time to time by the constitution of the state or the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 10)
Sec. 8-30. - Authority of county manager.
The county manager shall be empowered to employ a building inspector and collect such building and permit fees as are necessary to employ, train, certify, and otherwise allow the said building inspector to meet his duties under this article as well as all terms of the state minimum building codes.
(Ord. of 12-14-2009, § 13)
