ARTICLE II. - CITY OFFICIALS

Sec. 2-19. - City attorney.
(a)
Appointment and qualifications. The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city council, and shall serve until a successor is appointed and has qualified. No person shall be so appointed unless he is a member in good standing of the state bar and has been actively engaged in the practice of law for at least three years preceding his appointment.
(b)
Oath. Before entering upon the duties of his office, the city attorney shall take the oath prescribed by this Code for city officers.
(c)
Powers and duties. The city attorney shall be the legal advisor and representative of the city and in such capacity shall:
(1)
Advise the council or its committees or any city officer, when thereto requested, upon all legal questions arising in the conduct of city business;
(2)
Prepare or revise ordinances when so requested by the council or any committee thereof and keep this Code up to date and properly indexed;
(3)
Give his opinion upon any legal matter or question submitted to him by the council, any of its committees or by any city officer;
(4)
Prepare for execution all contracts and instruments to which the city is a party and approve, as to form, all bonds required to be submitted to the city;
(5)
Defend any and all suits and actions at law or equity brought against the city, unless otherwise directed by city council;
(6)
Make immediate report to the mayor and council of the outcome of any litigation in which the city has an interest;
(7)
Make an annual report to the mayor and council of all pending litigation in which the city has an interest and the status thereof;
(8)
Keep complete and accurate records of the following, which records shall forever remain the property of the city:
a.
All suits in which the city had or has an interest, giving the names of the parties, the nature of the action, the disposition of the case or its status, if pending, and the briefs of counsel;
b.
All written opinions prepared by the city attorney and all certificates or abstracts of titles furnished by him to the city or any department or official thereof; and
c.
Render such other legal services as may be required by the mayor or council.
(d)
Compensation. The city attorney shall receive a retainer fee of $300.00 annually.
(e)
Right to hire special counsel. The mayor and city councilpersons may enter into any contracts of employment or agreements of employment with attorneys other than the city attorney in any and all instances in which a conflict of interest arises involving the city attorney and in any and all other instances in which the mayor and city councilpersons deem that the best interest of the city would be served by the employment of a special counsel for any legal matter then under consideration. The employment of special counsel from time to time shall in no way affect the right and authority of the mayor and city councilpersons to continue their retainer arrangement and relationship with the city attorney, and likewise the continued relationship with the city attorney shall in no way alter, affect or abridge the mayor and city councilperson's right to obtain special counsel from time to time as they deem necessary.
(Code 1979, § 3-401; Code 2003, § 30.01)
Sec. 2-20. - Other officers and employees.
Job descriptions for other city officers and for employees shall be kept on file in the city clerk's office.
(Code 1979, § 3-402; Code 2003, § 30.02)
Sec. 2-21. - Employees generally.
A personnel policy manual shall be kept on file in the city clerk's office.
(Code 1979, § 3-403; Code 2003, § 30.03)
Sec. 2-22. - Mayor is chief executive officer of the city.
(a)
Chief executive officer. Pursuant to section 3.21 of the city Charter, the mayor is the chief executive of the city, and under this administrative policy, the mayor shall remain as the chief executive of the city. The mayor shall possess all of the executive and administrative powers granted to the city under the constitution and laws of the state, and all the executive and administrative powers contained within the Charter. Pursuant to section 3.21 of the city Charter, the mayor has the authority to delegate any one or more executive or administrative powers to a person employed by the city, including, but not limited to, the councilmembers of the city council, regarding the management and administration of the affairs of the city. The mayor does hereby find that this administrative policy is necessary for the efficient and effective management of the affairs of the city, but the mayor retains the right and power at any time to change this administrative policy. In the event of a conflict between this administrative policy, and the provisions of the city Charter, then the provisions of the city Charter shall control over this administrative policy.
(b)
Chief administrative officer for the city. The mayor of the city does hereby delegate to the city clerk the day-to-day administrative duties in managing the affairs of the city, but subject to the direction and the supervision of the mayor. The city clerk, as the chief administrative officer for the city, shall be responsible to the mayor and city council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city on a day-to-day basis. The city clerk, as chief administrator, shall have the power to recommend appointment and removal of all officers, department heads, and employees in the administrative service of the city, except not including the city police chief, the city engineer, city attorney, and the city judge. All officers, department heads, and employees shall be administratively responsible to the city clerk as chief administrative officer, except the city engineer, city attorney and the city judge, who shall be appointed or removed by the mayor and subject to the confirmation by the city council. The mayor, as confirmed by the city council, can modify any personnel decision made by the city clerk acting as the chief administrative officer. It shall be the duty of the city clerk, acting as the chief administrative officer, to supervise the administration of the day-to-day affairs of the city; to see that the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the city council and the laws of the state are faithfully executed and enforced; to make such recommendations to the city council concerning the affairs of the city as he shall deem expedient; to keep the city council advised of the financial condition and future financial needs of the city; to attend all meetings of the city council; to prepare and submit to the city council such reports as may be deemed expedient or as may be required by the city council. The city clerk, as the chief administrative officer, shall perform such other functions as assigned to him by the mayor and/or the city council. The city clerk, as the chief administrative officer of the city, with the approval of the mayor, may delegate duties as the purchasing agent, the personnel officer, and the finance officer of the city. The city clerk as the chief administrative officer shall have responsibility for preparing and implementing the budget following budgetary review and adoption of the council in regular meeting. All department heads, except the police chief, employed by the city clerk as the chief administrative officer shall be administratively accountable to the city clerk as the chief administrative officer. All department heads or other agents (city engineer, city attorney, city judge, etc.) employed by the legislative body (mayor and city council) shall be administratively communicative with the city clerk as the chief administrative officer.
(c)
Supervision of the city clerk acting as chief administrative officer by the mayor. The mayor, as chief executive of the city, shall supervise the administration of the city by the city clerk, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1)
Supervise the city clerk acting as the chief administrative officer to see that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed;
(2)
Review and approve the recommendation of appointment or removal by the city clerk as chief administrative officer of all officers, department heads, and employees of the city, except as otherwise provided in this administrative policy; any appointment or removal by the mayor shall be subject to confirmation by the city council;
(3)
Exercise supervision over all executive and administrative work of the city by the city clerk, acting as chief administrative officer, and provide for the coordination of administrative activities, including, but not limited to, appointment of councilmembers as administrative supervisors over city departments, and supervise the city clerk acting as the chief administrative officer's management of said departments; the mayor shall determine and coordinate the administrative tasks performed by the city clerk as the chief administrative officer and those performed by a councilmember acting as an administrative supervisor over a city department;
(4)
Exercise supervision over the city clerk acting as the chief administrative officer's preparation and submission to the council a recommended annual operating budget and recommended capital budget;
(5)
Ensure that the city clerk, acting as the chief administrative officer, shall submit to the council at least once a year a statement covering the financial conditions of the city and from time-to-time such other information as the city council may request;
(6)
Delegate such other executive or administrative duties, in the mayor's discretion, to the city clerk acting as the chief administrative officer of the city, as the mayor deems expedient for the proper operations of the city.
(d)
Administrative supervision of departments of the city by councilmembers. In order to have effective and efficient operations for the city, the mayor finds that it is appropriate to delegate to one or more members of the city council administrative oversight of the departments of the city. Therefore, on an annual basis, the mayor finds that it is appropriate that the mayor appoints one or more councilmembers to be the administrative supervisor over each department of the city, and who will work with the city clerk, acting as the chief administrative officer, in the administration of said department. The mayor shall delegate the administrative tasks to be performed by the city councilmember as the administrative supervisor of a city department and the administrative tasks to be performed by the city clerk, acting as the chief administrative officer The mayor shall determine and coordinate the administrative tasks performed by the city clerk, acting as the chief administrative officer, and those performed by a councilmember acting as administrative supervisor over a city department.
(e)
Ability to modify this administrative policy. Pursuant to section 3.21 of the city Charter, the mayor has established this administrative policy, which has also been agreed to and approved by the city council, but the mayor as the chief executive of the city, retains the right to modify or change this administrative policy in any way, or at any time, as deemed necessary in the absolute discretion of the mayor.
(f)
Effective date. This administrative policy shall go into effect upon approval by the mayor and with that date as set out herein this administrative policy.
(Mo. of 5-13-2008, §§ 1—6)
Sec. 2-23. - Open records policy adopted.
The mayor and council hereby adopt the open records policy which was included as an attachment to the ordinance from which this provision was derived and instruct all city employees to abide by said policy.
(Res. No. BR2018-03-13, § 1, 3-13-2018)
Sec. 2-24. - Open records policy will not violate the Georgia Open Records Act.
No portion of the open records policy should be interpreted to violate the Georgia Open Records Act. If any portion of said policy was found to be in violation of the Georgia Open Records Act, that portion of said policy shall be rendered void but all other portions shall be separate, distinct and remain in full force and effect.
(Res. No. BR2018-03-13, § 2, 3-13-2018)
Sec. 2-25. - Meeting times.
(a)
The regular scheduled meetings of the city council shall be held on the third Tuesday of each month beginning at 5:00 p.m. at city hall. At any meeting of the city council, the city council may vote to change the meeting date and time for the next scheduled meeting.
(b)
All meetings shall be governed by the meeting procedures attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived as Exhibit "A" and is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. BR2020-28, § 1, 11-30-2020; Ord. No. BR2021-10, § 1, 7-13-2021)
Secs. 2-26—2-51. - Reserved.
