Chapter 130 - LANDSCAPING
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 130-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Blue Ridge Landscape Ordinance."
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 1.1)
Sec. 130-2. - Jurisdiction.
Unless this chapter clearly indicates otherwise, this chapter shall apply within the city limits.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 1.2)
Sec. 130-3. - Conflict with other laws.
Whenever the regulations of this chapter require or impose more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other ordinance, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any state or federal statute requires more restrictive standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 1.3)
Sec. 130-4. - Interpretation and rules of construction.
For the purpose of this chapter and in order to carry out the provisions and intentions as set forth herein, certain words, terms, and phrases are to be used and interpreted as defined hereinafter. Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense; words used in the singular number include the plural, and words in the plural number include the singular; the term "person" includes a firm, partnership, or corporation as well as an individual; the term "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the term "may" is permissive. The term "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the terms "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied." Words, terms and phrases not specifically defined herein shall have their common meaning (in the context in which they are used) in accordance with the latest edition of Webster's English Dictionary.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 2.1)
Sec. 130-5. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Berm means an earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen undesirable views and/or decrease noise.
Buffer means a combination of physical space and vertical elements, such as plants, berms, fences or walls, the primary purpose of which is to separate and screen incompatible land uses from each other.
Deciduous means a plant with foliage that is shed annually.
Diameter breast height (DBH) means the standard measure of tree size for those trees existing on a site that are at least four-inch caliper at a height of 4.5 feet above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below 4.5 feet, then the trunk is measured at its most narrow point beneath the split.
Evergreen means a plant with foliage that persists and remains green year-round.
Frontage means the length of a property abutting a street, or the length of a building fronting a street.
Ground cover means living material planted in such a way as to form an 80 percent or more ground cover at the time of planting and a continuous cover over the ground that can be maintained at a height of not more than 18 inches.
Hedge means an evenly spaced planting of shrubs that forms a compact, dense, visually opaque living barrier. Hedges inhibit passage or obscure views.
Invasive species mean non-native species that can cause environmental or economic harm, or harm to public health.
Landscape plan means a graphic and written document containing criteria, specifications and detailed plans to arrange and modify the effects of natural features. A landscape plan consists of a site plan showing the boundaries of the property and the location of proposed plant materials, in relation to surroundings and improvements, along with a planting schedule and any additional specifications required by the arborist.
Landscaping means any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, flowers, or grass, and which may include natural features such as rock, stone, bark chips or shavings, and structure features, including, but not limited to, fountains, pools, outdoor artwork, screen walls, fences or benches.
Natural area means an area containing natural vegetation that will remain undisturbed when the property is fully developed.
Perimeter landscaping means the use of landscape materials adjacent to the outer boundary of a parcel, or the outer boundary of a lease line, or the outer boundary of the developed area of a parcel.
Planning officer means the agent of the city having the primary responsibilities for administering and enforcing this chapter.
Retaining wall means a pressure-bearing structure used to hold a cut or fill in place.
Revegetation means the replacement of trees and landscape plant materials.
Screen means a method of reducing the impact of noise and unsightly visual intrusions with plants, berms, fences, walls or any appropriate combination thereof, to provide a less offensive or more harmonious environment in relation to abutting properties.
Shrub means a woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems from the ground or small branches near the ground and generally obtaining a height less than eight feet; a shrub may be deciduous or evergreen.
Street furniture means any accessory installments intended to make sidewalks and streetscapes more livable. Such installments include benches, planters, and trash receptacles.
Tree means any self-supporting, woody perennial plant usually having a single trunk diameter of three inches or more that normally attains a mature height of a minimum of 15 feet.
Woodland means a tract of land or part thereof dominated by trees but usually also containing woody shrubs, grasses and other vegetation.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 2.2)
Sec. 130-6. - Visibility.
Landscaping shall not restrict the visibility of motorists or pedestrians (such as tall shrubs or low-lying branches of trees).
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 5.1)
Sec. 130-7. - Clearance.
Trees must have a clear trunk at least six feet above the finished grade to allow a safe clearance beneath the tree.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 5.2)
Sec. 130-8. - Plant selection.
The following tables list ground cover, vines, shrubbery, and trees considered suitable for growing as native species in the Blue Ridge area.
EXPAND
Vines
Taxa/Zone* Tolerant to:
Poor Soils Wet Sites Dry Sites Urban Stress Salt Shade Evergreen or
Deciduous
Anisostichus capreolatus/6b-8b; Cross Vine (Bignonia) X X - - - X Semi-evergreen
Aristolochia durior/6b-8b; Dutchman's Pipe X - X - - - Deciduous
Campsis radicans/6b-8b; Trumpet Vine X X X X - X Deciduous
Clematis hybrida/6b-8b; Large-Flowered Clematis - X - - - X Deciduous
Fatchedera lizei/8a-8b; Bush Ivy X - X - - X Evergreen
Ficus pumila/8a-8b; Climbing Fig X - X - X X Evergreen
Gelsemium sempervirens/6b-8b; Carolina Jessamine X X X - - X Evergreen
Hydrangea anomala/6b-8b; Climbing Hydrangea - X - - - X Deciduous
Lonicera sempervirens/6b-8b; Honeysuckle X X X - - X Deciduous
Menispermum canadense/6b-8b; Common Moonseed X - X X - X Deciduous
Parthenocissus quinquefolia/6b-8b; Virginia Creeper X X X X X X Deciduous
Rosa banksiae/6b-8b; Banks Rose X - - - - - Evergreen-deciduous
Smilax lanceolata/6b-8b; Smilax X - - - X X Evergreen
* 6b-8b = entire state/Piedmont;
8a-8b = Coastal Plain
  EXPAND
Ground Covers
Taxa/Zone Tolerant to:
Poor Soils Wet Sites Dry Sites Urban Stress Salt Shade Evergreen or
Deciduous
Aspidistra elatior/8a-8b; Cast-Iron Plant X X X X Evergreen
Cyrtomium falcalum/8a-8b; Holly Fern X X X Evergreen
Helleborus orientalis/6b-8b; Lenten Rose X X X Evergreen
Hemerocallis spp./6b-8b; Daylily X X X X X X Deciduous
Hosta spp./6b-8b; Plantain Lily X X X Deciduous
Hypericum calycinum/6b-8b; Aaronsbeard (St. Johnsort) X X X Evergreen-deciduous
Iberis sempervirens/6b-8b; Candytuft X X X X Evergreen
Juniperus conferta/6b-8b; Shore Juniper X X X X Evergreen
Liriope muscari/6b-8b; Lily Turf X X X Evergreen
Liriope spicata/6b-8b; Creeping Lily Turf X X X X Evergreen
Ophiopogon jaburan/6b-8b; Snakesbeard X X X X Evergreen
Ophiopogon japonicus/6b-8b; Mondo Grass X X X Evergreen
Pachysandra procumbens/6b-8b; Alleghany Pachysandra X X Semi-evergreen
Pachysandra terminalis/6b-8b; Japanese Spurge X X X Evergreen
Paxistima canbyi/6b-8b; Rat-stripper X Evergreen
Phlox subulata/6b-8b; Thrift X X X Evergreen
Rosa wichuraiana/6b-8b; Memorial Rose X X Semi-evergreen
Rosmarinus officinalis/6b-8b; Rosemary X X Evergreen
Santolina chamaecyparissus/6b-8b; Lavender Cotton X X X Evergreen
Santolina virens/6b-8b; Green Santolina X X X Evergreen
Sarcocca hookerana humills/6b-8b; Small Himalyan Sarcocca X X Evergreen
Sedum acre/6b-8b; Gold Moss Stonecrop X X X X Evergreen
Sedum spectabile/6b-8b; Gold Moss Stonecrop X X X X Evergreen
  EXPAND
Shrubs 1—4 Feet
Taxa/Zone Tolerant to:
Poor Soils Wet Sites Dry Sites Urban Stress Salt Shade Evergreen or
Deciduous
Abelia x grandiflora/6b-8b; Dwarf Abelia X X X X Evergreen
Berberis candidula/6b-8b; Paleleaf Barberry X X X X Evergreen
Berberis verruculosa/6b-8b; Warty Barberry X X X Evergreen
Ceanothus americanus/6b-8b; Wild Snowball (New Jersey Tea) X X X Deciduous
Danae racemosa/6b-8b; Alexandrian Laurel X X Evergreen
Deutzia gracilis/6b-8b; Slender Deutzia X X X Deciduous
Euonymus japonicus 'Microphyllus'/6b-8b; Dwarf Japanese Euonymus X X X Evergreen
Hesperaloe parviflora/6b-8b; Red Yucca X X Evergreen
Hydrangea arborescens 'Grandiflora'/6b-8b; Snowhill Hydrangea X X Deciduous
Hypericum kalmianum/6b-8b; Kalm St. John's-Wort X X X Deciduous
Hypericum patulum/6b-8b; St. John's-Wort X X X Semi-evergreen
Hypericum prolificum/6b-8b; Shrubby St. John's-Wort X X X Deciduous
Ilex cornuta 'Rotunda'/6b-8b; Dwarf Chinese Holly X X X Evergreen
Ilex crenata radicans/6b-8b; Japanese Holly X X X Evergreen
Ilex vornitoria 'Nana'/6b-8b; Dwarf Yaupon X X X Evergreen
Jasminum nudiflorum/6b-8b X X X Deciduous
Juniperus davurica 'Parsoni'/6b-8b; Parsons Juniper X X X Evergreen
Lavandula officinalis/6b-8b; English Lavender X Evergreen
Leucothoe axillaris/6b-8b; Coastal Leucothoe X X Evergreen
Leucothoe fontanesiana/6b-8b; Drooping Leucothoe X X Evergreen
Ligustrum japonicum 'Rotundifolium'/6b-8b; Curlyleaf Ligustrum X X X Evergreen
Lonicera pileata/6b-8b; Privet Honeysuckle X X Semi-evergreen
Potentilla fruticosa/6b-8b; Bush Cinquefoil X X Deciduous
Ruscus aculeatus/6b-8b; Butcher's Broom X X X X Evergreen
Skimmia reevesiana/6b-8b; Reeves Skimmia X X Evergreen
Spiraea x bumalda; Bumald Spirea X X X Deciduous
Spiraea nipponica 'Snowmound'/6b-8b; Snowmound Nippon Spirea X X X Deciduous
Xanthorhiza simplicissima/6b-8b; Yellowroot X X X X X Semi-evergreen
Yucca filamentosa/6b-8b; Adams Needle Yucca X X X X Evergreen
  EXPAND
Shrubs 4—6 Feet
Taxa/Zone Tolerant to:
Poor Soils Wet Sites Dry Sites Urban Stress Salt Shade Evergreen or
Deciduous
Abelia x grandiflora/6b-8b; Glossy Abelia X X X X Evergreen
Cephalanlhus occidentalis/6b-8b; Buttonbush X Deciduous
Chaenomeles speciosa/6b-8b; Flowering Quince X X Deciduous
Clethra alnifolia/6b-8b; Summersweet Clethra X X X Deciduous
Dirca palustris/6b-8b; Leatherwood X X Deciduous
Euonymus americanus/6b-8b; American Strawberry Bush X X X Deciduous
Fatsia japonica/8a-8b; Japanese Fatsia X X X X Evergreen
Hamamelis vernalis/6b-8b; Vernal Witch-Hazel X X X X Deciduous
Hydrangea macrophylla/6b-8b; Bigleaf Hydrangea X X Deciduous
Hydrangea quercifolia/6b-8b; Oakleaf Hydrangea X X X Deciduous
Ilex crenata 'Compacta'/6b-8b; Compacta Japanese Holly X X Evergreen
Jasminum floridum/8a-8b; Flowering Jasmine X X X Evergreen
Juniperus squamata 'Meyeri'/6b-8b; Singleseed Juniper X X X X Evergreen
Mahonia aquifolium/6b-8b; Oregon Grape Holly X X X Evergreen
Opuntia spp./6b-8b; Prickly Pear X X X Evergreen
Pieris floribunda/6b-8b; Mountain Andromeda X X Evergreen
Pieris japonica/6b-8b; Japanese Andromeda X X Evergreen
Raphiolepis umbellata/8a-8b; Yedda Hawthorn X X X X Evergreen
Rhododendron carolinianum/6b-8b; Carolina Rhododendron X X Evergreen
Rhodotypos scandens/6b-8b; Black Jetbead X X X X Deciduous
Rhus aromatica/6b-8b; Fragrant Sumac X X X Deciduous
Spiraea cantoniensis/6b-8b; Reeves Spirea X X Deciduous
Spiraea thunbergii/6b-8b; Thunberg Spirea X X X Deciduous
Spiraea x vanhouttei/6b-8b; Vanhoutte Spirea X X X Deciduous
Taxus cuspidata/6b-8b; Japanese Yew X X X Evergreen
Viburnum acerifolium/6b-8b; Mapleleaf Viburnum X X X Deciduous
Viburnum carlesii/6b-8b; Koreanspice Viburnum X Deciduous
Viburnum suspensum/8a-8b; Sandankwa Viburnum X X X Evergreen
Yucca gloriosa/6b-8b; Mound Lily Yucca X X X Evergreen
  EXPAND
Shrubs 6—12 Feet
Taxa/Zone Tolerant to:
Poor Soils Wet Sites Dry Sites Urban Stress Salt Shade Evergreen or
Deciduous
Aesculus parviflora/6b-8b; Bottlebrush Buckeye X X Deciduous
Aronia arbutifolia/6b-8b; Red Chokeberry X X X Deciduous
Calycanthus floridus/6b-8b; Sweetshrub X X X X Deciduous
Chimonanthus praecox/6b-8b; Wintersweet X X X Semi-evergreen
Chionanthus virginicus/6b-8b; Fringetree X X Deciduous
Cleyera japonica/6b-8b; Cleyera (Temstroemia) X X Evergreen
Cornus amomum/6b-8b; Silky Dogwood X X X Deciduous
Cornus racemosa/6b-8b; Gray Dogwood X X X Deciduous
Cornus sericea/6b-8b; Red-osier Dogwood X X X X Deciduous
Cotinus obovatus/6b-8b; American Smoketree X X X Deciduous
Cyrilla racemiflora/6b-8b; Leatherwood X Evergreen
Deutzia scabra/6b-8b; Fuzzy Deutzia X X X Deciduous
Exochorda racemosa/6b-8b; Pearlbush X X X Deciduous
Feijoa sellowiana/8a-8b; Pineapple Guava X X Semi-evergreen
Forsythia x intermedia/6b-8b; Border Forsythia X X X X Deciduous
Hamamelis virginiana/6b-8b; Common Witch Hazel X X X X Deciduous
Hibiscus syriacus/6b-8b; Rose of Sharon X X X X X Deciduous
Ilex glabra/6b-8b; Inkberry Holly X X Evergreen
Viburnum x rhytidophylloides/6b-8b; Lantanaphyllum Viburnum X X Semi-evergreen
Viburbnum rhytidophyllum/6b-8b; Leatherleaf Viburnum X X Evergreen
Vitex agnus-castus/6b-8b; Chaste Tree X X X X Deciduous
Weigela florida/6b-8b; Weigela X X Deciduous
Yucca aloifolial/8a-8b; Spanish Bayonet X X X X Evergreen
  EXPAND
Small Trees 15—40 Feet
Taxa/Zone Tolerant to:
Wet Sites Dry Sites Salt Shade Evergreen or
Deciduous
Acer buergeranum/6b-8b; Trident Maple* - X - - Deciduous
Acer campestre/6b-8b; Hedge Maple X Deciduous
Acer floridanum/6b-8b; Florida Maple X Deciduous
Acer griseum/6b-8b; Paperbark Maple Deciduous
Acer palmatum/6b-8b; Japanese Maple* X X Deciduous
Acer tataricum/6b-8b; Tatarian Maple X Deciduous
Acer truncatum/6b-8b; Purpleblow Maple X Deciduous
Amelanchier arborea/6b-8b; Downy Serviceberry Deciduous
Amorpha fruticosa/6b-8b; Indigobush Amorpha X Deciduous
Asimina triloba/6b-8b; Common Pawpaw X X Deciduous
Bumelia lanuginosa/6b-8b; Chittamwood X X Deciduous
Carpinus caroliniana/6b-8b; American Hornbeam X X Deciduous
Chioanthus retusus/6b-8b; Chinese Fringetree* X X Deciduous
Chioantus virginicus/6b-8b; White Fringetree or Grancy Gray-Beard* X X Deciduous
Cornus florida/6b-8b; Flowering Dogwood* X Deciduous
Cornus mas/6b-8b; Comeliancherry Dogwood Deciduous
Davidia involucrata/6b-8b; Dove Tree X Deciduous
Eriobotrya japonica/8a-8b; Loquat X Evergreen
Evodia daniellii/6b-8b; Korean Evodia X Deciduous
Halesia carolina/6b-8b; Carolina Silverbell X - - X Deciduous
Halesia diptera var. magniflora/6b-8b; Two-winged Carolina Silverbell* X Deciduous
**Ilex cassine/6b-8b; Dahoon X - X - Evergreen
Ilex decidua/6b-8b; Possum Haw X X - - Deciduous
Ilex vomitoria/7-8; Yaupon Holly* X X Evergreen
Ilex myrtifolia/6b-8b; Myrtle-leaved Holly X X Evergreen
Ilex opaca cvs./6b-8b; American Holly X X X Evergreen
Ilex x attenuata/6b-8b; Savannah Holly** Evergreen
Koelreuteria bipinnata/6b-8b; Chinese Flame Tree - X X - Deciduous
Koelreuteria paniculata/6b-8b; Golden Raintree - X - - Deciduous
Lagerstroemia indica/6b-8b; Crape Myrtle* - X X - Deciduous
Maclura pornifera/6b-8b; Osage Orange X X - - Deciduous
Magnolia grandiflora/7-8; Little Gem Magnolia* Evergreen
Magnolia x soulangiana/6b-8b; Saucer Magnolia X - - Deciduous
Magnolia stellata/6b-8b; Star Magnolia* - - - - Deciduous
Magnolia virginiana/6b-8b; Sweetbay Magnolia X - - X Semi-evergreen
Myrica cerifera/7-8; Southern Waxmyrtle* X X X X Evergreen
Osmanthus americanus/6b-8b; Devilwood or Wild Olive* X Evergreen
Ostrya virginiana/6b-8b; American Hophornbeam* X X Deciduous
Parrotia persica/6b-8b; Persian Parrotia - - - - Deciduous
Pinus virginiana/ 6b-8b; Virginia Pine - X X - Evergreen
Photinia serratifolia/7-8; Chinese or Oriental Photinia* X Evergreen
Prunus campanulata cross with Prunus incisa/6b-8b; Okame Cherry* Deciduous
Prunus caroliniana/6b-8b; Cherry Laurel - X X - Evergreen
Prunus mume/6b-8b; Japanese Apricot* Deciduous
Prunus x yedoensis/6b-8b; Yoshino Cherry - - - - Deciduous
Pterocarya fraxinifolia/6b-8b; Caucasian Wingnut X X - - Deciduous
Quercus myrsinifolia/6b-8b; Chinese Evergreen Oak - X - - Evergreen
Rhus copallina/6b-8b; Flameleaf Sumac - X - - Deciduous
Sabal palmetto/8; Cabbage Palm* X X X X Evergreen
Vaccinium arboreum/7-8; Farkleberry* X X Deciduous
Vitex agnus-castus/7-8; Chastetree* X Deciduous
  EXPAND
Large Trees 40+ Feet
Taxa/Zone Tolerant to:
Poor Soils Wet Sites Dry Sites Urban Stress Salt Shade Evergreen or
Deciduous
Acer negundo/6b-8b; Boxelder X X X X Deciduous
Acer rubrum/6b-8b; Red Maple X X X Deciduous
Alnus glutinosa/6b-8b; European Alder X X X Deciduous
Betula nigra/6b-8b; River Birch X X X Deciduous
Castanea mollissima/6b-8b; Chinese Chestnut X X X Deciduous
Catalpa bignonioides/6b-8b; Southern catalpa X X X X Deciduous
Celtis laevigata/6b-8b; Sugar Hackberry X X Deciduous
Celtis occidentalis/6b-8b; Hackberry X X X Deciduous
Cladrastis kentukea/6b-8b; American Yellowood X X Deciduous
Cunninghamia lanceolata/6b-8b; Chinafir X X X Evergreen
Firmiana simplex/6b-8b; Chinese Parasol Tree X X Deciduous
Fraxinus americana/6b-8b; White Ash X X Deciduous
Fraxinus pennsylvanica/6b-8; Green Ash X X X X Deciduous
Ginkgo biloba (male)/6b-8b; Ginkgo X X X Deciduous
Gymnocladus dioicus/6b-8b; Kentucky Coffee Tree X X X Deciduous
Juniperus virginiana/6b-8b; Eastern Red Cedar X X X X X Evergreen
Liquidambar styraciflua/6b-8b; Sweet Gum X X X Deciduous
Liriodendron tulipifera/6b-8b; Tulip Tree X X Deciduous
Magnolia grandiflora/6b-8b; Southern Magnolia (Note: preferred for coastal areas; can be slightly invasive in other regions) X X X X Evergreen
Metasequoia glyptostroboides/6b-8b; Dawn Redwood X X Deciduous
Morus rubra/6b-8b; Red Mulberry X X X Deciduous
Nyssa sylvatica/6b-8b; Black Tupelo X X Deciduous
Ostrya virginiana/6b-8b; American Hophornbeam X X X Deciduous
Populus alba/6b-8b; White Poplar X X X X X Deciduous
Quercus acutissima/6b-8b; Sawtooth Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus alba/6b-8b; White Oak X Deciduous
Quercus bicolor/6b-8b; Swamp Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus coccinea/6b-8b; Scarlet Oak X X Deciduous
Quercus falcata/6b-8b; Southern Red Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus imbricaria/6b-8b; Shingle Oak X X Deciduous
Quercus laurifolia/6b-8b; Laurel Oak X X X X Deciduous
Quercus lyrata/6b-8b; Overcup Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus macrocarpa/6b-8b; Bur Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus marilandica/6b-8b; Blackjack Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus muehlenbergii/-6b; Chinquapin Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus nigra/6b-8b; Water Oak X X X X X Deciduous
Quercus palustris/6b-8b; Pin Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus phellos/6b-8b; Willow Oak X X Deciduous
Quercus prinus/6b-8b; Chestnut Oak X X Deciduous
Quercus robur/6b-8b; English Oak X Deciduous
Quercus rubra/6b-8b; Northern Red Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus shumardii/6b-8b; Shumard Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus stellata/6b-8b; Post Oak X X X Deciduous
Quercus velutina/6b-8b; Black Oak X X Deciduous
Quercus virginiana/8a-8b; Live Oak X X X X X X Evergreen
Sophora japonica/6b-8b; Japanese Pagodatree X X Deciduous
Taxodium ascendens/6b-8b; Pond Cypress X X X Deciduous
Taxodium distichum/6b-8b; Bald Cypress X X X X Deciduous
Tilia americana/6b-8b; American Linden X X Deciduous
Tilia cordata/6b-8b; Littleleaf Linden X Deciduous
Ulmus parvifolia/6b-8b; Lacebark Elm X X X Deciduous
Zelkova serrata/6b-8b; Japanese Zelkova X X X Deciduous
Ziziphus jujuba/6b-8b; False Date X X Deciduous
  (Ord. of 3-8-2005(2), § 5.3)
Secs. 130-9—130-28. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATIVE AND PROCEDURAL ISSUES

Sec. 130-29. - Administration, interpretation, and enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the duly appointed planning officer to administer, interpret, and enforce this chapter. To this end, the planning officer is authorized to prepare administrative procedures, guidelines, application forms, to tend to other administrative details not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, and to implement the provisions of this chapter. The planning officer may delegate administrative functions, powers and duties assigned by this chapter to other staff as may be appropriate, without the need to reflect such delegation by formal action.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 3.1)
Sec. 130-30. - Permit required.
No building permit shall be issued, and it shall be unlawful to commence development or construction, until it is determined that the proposed development or building is in conformance with the provisions of this chapter, as applicable.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 3.2)
Sec. 130-31. - Landscape plan.
A landscaping plan approved by the planning officer shall be required prior to the issuance of a building permit to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The landscape plan shall be based on an accurate boundary survey of the site or reasonable property description, shall be no greater than 20 by 24 inches, and shall include the following:
(1)
Location and general type of existing vegetation;
(2)
Existing vegetation to be saved;
(3)
Methods and details for protecting existing vegetation during construction;
(4)
Locations and labels for all proposed plants and a plant list or schedule showing the proposed and minimum required quantities;
(5)
Location and description of other landscape improvements, such as earth berms, walls, fences, screens, sculptures, fountains, street furniture, lights, and courts or paved areas.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 3.3)
Sec. 130-32. - Penalties for violation.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a fine or imprisonment, or both. In no case shall the maximum punishment for violation of this chapter exceed the maximum penalties allowed by the city Charter. Each day's continuance of a violation shall be considered a separate offense. The city, as an alternative remedy, shall have the right to deny issuance of a building permit or an occupancy permit, or both, for noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter. The municipal court shall have jurisdiction of any offense charged pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 3.4)
Sec. 130-33. - Variances.
(a)
Any person who alleges that the requirements of this chapter pose undue hardship shall have the right to request a variance from the mayor and city council. It is intended, however, that such hardship apply only to the landscaping of expanding existing properties, and not to those requirements involving new properties.
(b)
No variance shall be authorized unless the council finds that all of the following conditions exist:
(1)
That the special circumstances or conditions apply to the property in question and do not apply generally to other land or buildings in the city.
(2)
That the granting of the application is necessary for the preservation of a property right and not merely to serve as a convenience for the applicant.
(3)
That the authorizing of the variance will not unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within the surrounding areas, or in any other respect impair the health, safety, comfort, morals or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
(4)
That if granting a variance would aid in the preservation of historically or culturally significant resources, the applicant is able to provide an alternative site plan that the council deems acceptable.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 3.5)
Sec. 130-34. - Appeal of an administrative decision or interpretation.
Any person who alleges that there has been an error by the planning officer in administration or interpretation of this chapter shall have the right to appeal the decision of the planning officer to the mayor and city council.
(1)
Such appeal shall be made within ten days following notification of the decision appealed from, by filing written notice of appeal and specifying grounds thereof.
(2)
The mayor and city council shall entertain the appeal as part of a regularly scheduled or called meeting of same.
(3)
In any case, action on the appeal shall be taken within 90 days of the date from which the written appeal was received.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 3.6)
Secs. 130-35—130-56. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DEVELOPMENT LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 130-57. - Frontage landscape strip.
A minimum eight-foot landscape strip as measured from the right-of-way of the street inward shall be provided along the full length of any street frontage of any new multifamily or nonresidential development. Development in R-2, R-3, C-1, C-2, and M-1 districts requires landscaping as provided for in this article.
(1)
Frontage landscape strips shall contain no structures, parking areas, patios, stormwater detention facilities or other accessory uses except for the following:
a.
Retaining walls or earthen berms constructed as part of an overall landscape design.
b.
Pedestrian-oriented facilities such as sidewalks and bus stops.
c.
Underground utilities.
d.
Driveways required in order to access the property.
e.
Signs otherwise permitted by chapter 140, pertaining to zoning.
(2)
One tree shall be provided within the frontage landscape strip for every 40 feet of length of street frontage, or portion thereof. Such trees may be deciduous or evergreen, but must be of a type that is suitable to local growing conditions and that will normally reach at least 12 inches at diameter breast height upon maturity. The tree must be selected from the "large trees" portion of the plant selection list under section 130-8. The expected mature height and canopy of the tree shall be appropriate to the area in which it is planted. The trees may be clustered for decorative effect following professional landscaping standards for spacing, location, and design. Trees, shrubs, or ground cover not contained within the list in section 130-8 may be approved by the planning officer, provided that these trees, shrubs, and ground cover are not an invasive species.
(3)
The remaining portions of a frontage landscape strip shall be planted in a combination of shrubs from the plant selection list in section 130-8, and grass or ground cover from the plant selection list in section 130-8, except for those ground areas that are mulched or covered by permitted structures. Trees, shrubs, or ground cover not contained within the list in section 130-8 may be approved by the planning officer, provided that these trees, shrubs, and ground cover are not an invasive species.
(4)
Upon planting, new trees shall have a caliper of no less than two inches, and may be clustered for decorative effect following professional landscaping standards for spacing, location, and design.
(5)
Plant materials in the frontage landscape strip are not to extend into the street right-of-way unless specifically allowed by the planning officer.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 4.1)
Sec. 130-58. - Side yard landscape strip.
A minimum ten-foot side yard landscape strip shall be provided along any side lot line of new nonresidential and commercial development. Development in R-2, R-3, C-1, C-2, and M-1 districts require landscaping as provided for in this article. The landscape strip is to extend from the front principal building setback line to the rear of the property (unless a buffer is required along the side lot line).
(1)
Side yard landscape strips shall contain no structures, parking areas, patios, stormwater detention facilities or any other uses except for the following:
a.
Retaining walls or earthen berms constructed as part of an overall landscape design.
b.
Underground utilities.
c.
Driveways required to access neighboring property.
(2)
All portions of a side yard landscape strip shall be planted in trees from the plant selection list in section 130-8 and shrubs from the plant selection list in section 130-8, and grass or ground cover specified in the plant selection list in section 130-8. Species shall be selected so with the guiding principle that the mature plant height and canopy are appropriate to the site for which they are sited. Trees, shrubs, or ground cover not contained within the list in section 130-8 may be approved by the planning officer, provided that these trees, shrubs, and ground cover are not an invasive species.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 4.2)
Sec. 130-59. - Parking lot trees.
Deciduous shade trees shall be provided within any new parking lot designed or intended to accommodate ten cars or more in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(1)
One deciduous shade tree shall be provided within the parking lot for every ten spaces, or portion thereof. Each tree shall be located within the parking lot in reasonable proximity to the spaces for which the tree was required. Trees provided to meet the minimum requirements of any landscape strip or buffer may not be counted toward this requirement.
(2)
A landscaping island shall be located at the end of every parking bay between the last parking space and an adjacent travel aisle or driveway. The island shall be no less than eight feet wide for at least one-half the length of the adjacent parking space. The island shall be planted in trees, shrubs, grass, or ground cover.
(3)
Tree planting areas shall be no less than eight feet in width and shall provide at least 100 square feet of planting area per tree. No tree shall be located less than 2½ feet from the back of the curb. All parking lot landscape islands shall be curbed with minimum six-inch-high vertical curbs.
(4)
Landscaping islands and tree planting areas shall be well-drained and contain suitable soil and natural irrigation characteristics from the planting materials they contain.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 4.3)
Sec. 130-60. - Buffer between non-compatible uses.
To minimize potential conflicts between non-compatible land uses and to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public, a living buffer shall be required in many cases when two adjoining properties fall into two different zoning classifications. The requirements for a buffer are further elaborated in chapter 140, article XIII.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 4.4)
Sec. 130-61. - Expansions.
For existing developments and parking facilities, expansions in gross floor area (GFA) or parking spaces will trigger landscaping requirements based on threshold expansion values.
(1)
Building expansions.
a.
When a building expansion increases GFA at least ten percent but no more than 25 percent, then, at the option of the applicant, the entire property shall comply either with the frontage landscape strip requirements or the parking lot trees requirements.
b.
When a building expansion increases GFA more than 25 percent, then the entire property shall comply with the street yard requirements, and any of the expanded parking lot portions shall comply with the parking lot landscaping requirements.
(2)
Parking lot expansions. With an expansion of at least ten spaces, the expanded portion of the parking lot shall comply with the landscaping requirements.
(3)
Where both building expansion and parking lot expansion requirements are applicable, the building expansion requirements shall supersede.
(Ord. of 3-8-2008(2), § 4.5)
