Chapter 2. - ELECTIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Municipal Election Code, Ga. Code Ann., Tit. 34A.
Charter reference— Qualifications for mayor and members of council, § 2-2; election of mayor and members of council, § 2-3; vacancy in office of mayor or council member, § 2-7; political activity prohibited, § 3-4; elections, art. V.

Sec. 2-2-1. - Municipal election superintendent.
Superintendent. The mayor and council of the city shall appoint a municipal election superintendent who shall receive such compensation as provided by the governing body of the city. The superintendent shall exercise those powers and duties as set forth in the Georgia Municipal Election Code.
State Law reference— Selection of superintendent and officials, Ga. Code Ann., § 34A-201; powers and duties of municipal superintendent, Ga. Code Ann., § 34A-301.
Sec. 2-2-2. - District polling places.
The polling place for Election District 1 shall be the Northside Recreation Center, Pecan Drive, and the polling place for Election District 2 shall be the City Hall.
(Code 1970, § 8-3; Ord. No. 86-2, § 2, 1-27-86)
Charter reference— Place of elections, § 5-6.
Sec. 2-2-3. - Registration of electors; procedure; challenges.
(a)
The city shall maintain its own registration list and a resident of the city who desires to vote in a municipal primary or election must apply to be registered as an elector for such primary or election by a deadline fixed by the municipal registrars in accordance with Ga. Code Ann., § 34A-507(b)(i). The applicant must appear in person before the registrar and must be determined by the registrar to be a bona fide resident of the city in accordance with the rules for determining residence set forth in the Georgia Election Code (Ga. Code Ann., § 34-632). The procedure and form of registration card shall conform to the provisions as prescribed in the Georgia Municipal Election Code (Ga. Code Ann., § 34A-506).
(b)
Any elector of the municipality shall be allowed to challenge the right of registration of any person whose name appears upon the electors' list or who is applying for registration with the registrar. The elector making the challenge shall appear before the registrar on or before election day, and state the grounds for the challenge in writing. The initial decision shall be made forthwith by the registrar with a right of appeal to the governing body of the city. If possible, the registrar will notify the challenged elector and provide him with an opportunity to answer the challenge. If the registrar does not find probable cause for sustaining the challenge, the challenged elector will be given the right to vote or the right to be registered to vote. If in doubt as to the merit of a challenge, the registrar shall notify the chief manager in the challenged elector's election district and the challenged elector shall be allowed to cast a challenged ballot.
Charter reference— Qualification of electors, § 5-3; voter registration, § 5-7.
State Law reference— Municipal registration of electors, Ga. Code Ann., § 34A-501; challenges of electors, procedures determined by ordinance, Ga. Code Ann., § 34A-520.
Sec. 2-2-4. - Nomination of candidates; times.
Qualification of candidates for municipal office shall begin at 8:00 a.m. on the 29th day before the general election and shall close at 5:00 p.m. on the 25th day before the general election, and shall begin at 8:00 a.m. on the 22nd day before a special election and close at 5:00 p.m. on the 18th day before such special election.
(Ord. No. 79-11, 10-10-79; Ord. No. 85-20, 10-14-85; Ord. No. 86-2, § 3, 1-27-86)
Sec. 2-2-5. - Contested elections.
(a)
Any person who was a candidate in an election or any aggrieved elector shall be permitted to contest the election of any candidate upon any of the following grounds:
(1)
Malconduct, fraud or irregularity by any election official sufficient to change or place in doubt the result.
(2)
Ineligibility of the defendant for the office in dispute.
(3)
Illegal votes received, or legal votes rejected, sufficient to change or place in doubt the result.
(4)
An error in counting the votes or in declaring the result of an election, if such error would change the result.
(5)
Any other cause which shows that another was the person legally elected.
(b)
A petition to contest the results of a general or special election shall be filed with the city clerk within five days after the results of an election are certified to the governing body of the city. A hearing shall then be set before the governing body. Written notice shall be given to all affected candidates by the governing body of the city. The notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and shall contain a copy of the petition of contest. The hearing will take place not more than ten days nor less than three days after service of the notice upon the affected candidates.
(c)
The governing body shall have the authority to examine the qualifications of electors concerning their right to vote, order a recount of ballots, examine the registration lists and perform such acts and conduct such examinations as may be deemed necessary to determine the validity of a contest of an election.
(d)
The final determination of the governing body of the city may be appealed to the superior court in the manner of appeal from a probate court, except that such appeal shall be made within ten days after determination of the contest by the mayor and council by issuance of an order so signifying.
State Law reference— Grounds for contested elections, Ga. Code Ann., § 34-1703; procedures to be determined by ordinance in compliance with state law, Ga. Code Ann., § 34A-1501.
