Chapter 4. - PERSONNEL
ARTICLE A. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 2-4-1. - Purpose of article.
The general purpose of this article is to establish a system of personnel administration that meets the functional, economic and career needs of the employees of the City of Camilla. This system shall include means to recruit, select, develop and maintain an effective and responsive work force and shall include policies and procedures for employees hiring and advancement, fringe benefits, discipline, discharge, and other related personnel activities. All appointments and promotions of city employees shall be made without regard to sex, race, religion or political affiliation, and shall be based on merit and fitness.
(Code 1970, § 14-1)
Sec. 2-4-2. - Applicability.
This article shall apply to all positions in the public service of the City of Camilla now existing or hereafter established, except the following:
(1)
The mayor, members of the council and other elected officials;
(2)
Members of boards and commissions and others appointed by the mayor and council;
(3)
The city manager and city attorney;
(4)
Persons employed to make or conduct a temporary and special inquiry, investigation, or examination on behalf of the mayor and council or the city manager; and
(5)
Part-time employees.
(Code 1970, § 14-2)
Sec. 2-4-3. - Personnel department.
(a)
There shall be in the city a personnel department, the executive head of which shall be the city manager who will serve as director of personnel.
(b)
As head of the personnel department, the director of personnel shall direct all of its administrative and technical activities and appoint its employees.
(c)
The director of personnel will:
(1)
Develop a system of effective personnel administration;
(2)
Develop programs for improving employee effectiveness including training and safety programs;
(3)
Establish and maintain records of all employees which records shall include all data deemed relevant and significant; and
(4)
Apply and carry out the provisions of this article.
(Code 1970, § 14-3)
Sec. 2-4-4. - Personnel policies.
(a)
The director of personnel shall establish and issue personnel policies which shall provide for:
(1)
The preparation, maintenance and revision of a position classification for all positions when the number of permanent employees of the city exceeds 100;
(2)
The annual submission of a pay plan as a part of the budget;
(3)
The recruitment of and appointment of capable persons to fill vacancies;
(4)
The establishment and maintenance of lists of job applicants;
(5)
The promotion of employees based on qualifications, performance and demonstrated ability;
(6)
The appointment or promotion of employees on a probationary basis for up to one year before such appointment or promotion becomes permanent;
(7)
The emergency employment of provisional workers for not more than one year;
(8)
The establishment of policies to prevent discrimination against any group of persons because of age, sex, race, religion or political affiliation;
(9)
The establishment of an employee grievance and complaint procedure;
(10)
The establishment of disciplinary measures for serious infractions;
(11)
The establishment of working conditions to include hours and attendance regulations;
(12)
The establishing and publicizing of fringe benefits; and
(13)
The development and publication of such other policies and regulations not inconsistent with this article as may be proper and necessary.
(b)
The director of personnel or his authorized agent shall initial or sign weekly payroll vouchers, certifying that the persons named thereon have been employed in accordance with the provisions of this law and the policies issued hereunder.
(Code 1970, § 14-4)
Sec. 2-4-5. - Political activities.
(a)
No employee of the city shall be an officer of a political party or hold political office during his or her employment.
(b)
No employee or official shall solicit any assessment, contribution or service for any political party from any employee of the city.
(c)
Nothing herein shall affect the right of an employee to be a member of, and support, a political party, to vote as he chooses, to express privately his opinions on all political subjects and candidates, to maintain political neutrality and to attend political meetings.
(Code 1970, § 14-5)
Sec. 2-4-6. - Unlawful acts prohibited.
(a)
No person shall make any false statement, certificate, rating or report with regard to any application, certification or appointment made under any provision of this article or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing the impartial execution of this article and the policies issued hereunder.
(b)
No person shall, directly or indirectly, give, render, pay, offer, solicit, or accept any money, services or other valuable consideration in an effort to influence any personnel action taken under the terms of this article.
(Code 1970, § 14-6)
Sec. 2-4-7. - Penalties.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted of the violation of any provision of this article shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.00, by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or to work on the streets for a period not to exceed 60 days, or any combination of the foregoing penalties in the discretion of the court.
(Code 1970, § 14-7)
Sec. 2-4-8. - Present employees.
Employees holding positions with the city for one year or more on the effective date of this article shall be continued in those positions until separated in accordance with the policies issued pursuant to this article. Those holding their positions less than one year on the effective date of this article shall continue in a probational status in accordance with said policies.
(Code 1970, § 14-8)
Sec. 2-4-9. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 90-1, adopted January 8, 1990, repealed § 2-4-9 in its entirety. Former § 2-4-9 was concerned with the defense of claims against city employees, settlements, etc.; and derived from Ord No. 87-10, § 1, September 14, 1987.
Secs. 2-4-10—2-4-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE B. - SOCIAL SECURITY

Sec. 2-4-21. - Initial plan; declaration of coverage.
It is declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend, under the agreement entered into by the state and the Federal Social Security Administration, to the employees and officials thereof, and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this chapter, the benefits of the system of old age and survivors insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto, and as provided for in Georgia laws. In pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1970, § 14-17)
State Law reference— Ga. Code Ann., § 69-1019.
Sec. 2-4-22. - Same; execution of agreements.
The mayor, or other chief executive officer, of the city is authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the employees' retirement system of the state and officials as provided herein, to include any employees that are in positions covered by a public retirement system, as provided by law.
(Code 1970, § 14-18)
Sec. 2-4-23. - Withholdings.
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in section 2-4-21 are authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(Code 1970, § 14-19)
Sec. 2-4-24. - Employer contributions, expenses and guaranty fund.
There shall be appropriated from social security and general funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal law or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses, and a guaranty fund to assure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in section 2-4-22. Such funds shall be paid over to the employees' retirement system of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by said agency.
(Code 1970, § 14-20)
Sec. 2-4-25. - Records and reports.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1970, § 14-21)
Sec. 2-4-26. - Exclusion from participation.
There is excluded from social security participation any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position, or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1970, § 14-22)
Sec. 2-4-27. - Amendment authorized.
The mayor is authorized and directed to execute an agreement amending the original plan and agreement with the employees' retirement system of Georgia, in substantially the form on file in the office of the city clerk, and designated Exhibit "A," providing for the release of social security escrow deposits.
(Code 1970, § 14-23)
Sec. 2-4-28. - Agreement to make collections, reports and payments.
The city agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the employees' retirement system of Georgia, hereinafter called the state agency, in regard to collections from the city employees and in making reports and payments to the state agency.
(Code 1970, § 14-24)
Sec. 2-4-29. - Pledge of funds.
The city pledges an amount which it would receive in state grant funds as security for assurance that it will make collections from its employees, submit required reports, and remit payments to the state agency as agreed to in its plan of coverage of employees for social security benefits. The city further agrees that if the amount of state grant funds which it is entitled to receive in a calendar year is less than its annual payment to the state agency, as may be determined by the state agency, the city shall deposit in escrow, when so notified in writing by the state agency and in accordance with its rules and regulations, an amount which, when added to the city's state grant funds, would total an amount sufficient to meet its obligations of reporting and remitting collections to the state agency.
(Code 1970, § 14-25)
Secs. 2-4-30—2-4-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE C. - RETIREMENT PLAN

Sec. 2-4-41. - Incorporation into Code.
The retirement plan of the city, as established by Ordinance No. 70-109, adopted on October 5, 1970, and as amended by Ordinance No 79-3, dated February 12, 1979, is hereby incorporated into this Code as fully as if set out at length herein. A copy of the retirement plan shall be maintained on file in the office of the city clerk and be available for public inspection during regular business hours.
