ARTICLE III. - ROOM OCCUPANCY TAX[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Room occupancy tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 30-362. - Levied; exceptions.
(a)
Levied. There is hereby levied an excise tax at the rate of eight percent of the rent paid for the occupancy of any room or rooms, lodging, or accommodations furnished by any person or legal entity located within the unincorporated portions of Dawson County and that is licensed by, or required to pay business or occupation taxes to Dawson County for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, bed and breakfast, short-term home rental, or any place in which rooms, lodging, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value. No tax shall be levied as provided in this section upon fees or charges for any rooms, lodging, or accommodations furnished for a period of more than 30 consecutive days or for use as meeting rooms. No tax shall be levied as provided herein upon the fees or charges for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more consecutive days for use by Georgia state or local government officials or employees when traveling on official business. In each fiscal year during which the tax set forth herein is collected, the total amount of taxes collected that exceeds the amount of taxes that would be collected at a rate of five percent shall be expended for promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows by the Dawson County Convention and visitors bureau division of the Dawson County Chamber of Commerce, a designated marketing organization designated by Dawson County.
(b)
Additional levy authorization.
(1)
Room tax authorized. Pursuant to the authority of subsection (b) of Code Section 48-13-51 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b)], the governing authority of Dawson County is authorized within the territorial limits of the special district located within Dawson County to levy an excise tax at a rate not to exceed eight percent of the charge for the furnishing for value to the public of any room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished by any person or legal entity licensed by, or required to pay business or occupation taxes to, the county for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly or periodically furnished for value.
(2)
Enactment subsequent to county resolution. The enactment of this subsection (b) is subsequent to the adoption of Resolution #2009-001 of the governing authority of Dawson County on February 19, 2009, which specifies the subsequent tax rate, identifies the projects or tourism product development purposes, and specifies the allocation of proceeds.
(3)
Use of tax. In accordance with the terms of Resolution #2009-001:
a.
In each fiscal year during which a tax is collected pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b), an amount equal to not less than 50 percent of the total amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent shall be expended for promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows by the destination marketing organization designated by Dawson County; and
b.
The remaining amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent which are not otherwise expended under subsection (1) of this section shall be expended for tourism product development.
(c)
Definitions.
Innkeeper means:
(1)
Any person that furnishes for value to the public any room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations within the unincorporated portions of Dawson County and that is licensed by, or required to pay business or occupation taxes to Dawson County for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground, bed and breakfast, short-term home rental, or any other place in which room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value; or
(2)
A marketplace facilitator who facilitates the furnishing for value to the public any room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations on behalf of another person in any manner, including, but not limited to, promoting, marketing, advertising, taking reservations, collecting payment, or as otherwise defined by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2(2)(B).
Marketplace innkeeper means an innkeeper as defined in section 30-362(c)(1)b.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 1; Res. No. 2009-001, § 1, 2-19-2009; 2009 Ga. Laws (Act No. 270), page 3987, §§ 1—3; Ord. of 9-16-2021, § 1 (Exh. A))
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3).
Sec. 30-363. - Use of proceeds.
The proceeds collected pursuant to this article shall be used to promote tourism, conventions, and trade shows in accord with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3).
(Res. of 9-15-2005, § 1)
Sec. 30-364. - Duty to collect.
(a)
It shall be the duty of every innkeeper of any establishment covered by section 30-362 to collect the tax on occupants as hereinabove imposed in section 30-362.
(b)
A marketplace innkeeper shall constitute the innkeeper with respect to the transactions taxable pursuant to this article that it facilitates on behalf of another person. All taxes levied or imposed by this article on transactions facilitated by a marketplace innkeeper shall be paid by the purchaser to the marketplace innkeeper.
(c)
The marketplace innkeeper shall remit all taxes in the manners provided in this article and, when received by the taxing authority.
(d)
Each marketplace innkeeper shall be liable for the full amount of taxes levied or imposed by this article on its transactions or the amount of tax collected by such marketplace innkeeper from all purchasers on all such transactions, whichever is greater.
(e)
A transaction that is not taxable pursuant to section 30-362(a) shall not be taxable to the marketplace innkeeper.
(f)
In the event that the marketplace innkeeper fails to remit the full amount of taxes levied or imposed by this article to Dawson County, the innkeeper shall be liable for the full amount of taxes levied or imposed by this article.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 2; Ord. of 9-16-2021, § 1 (Exh. A))
Sec. 30-365. - Registration of business.
(a)
Every person engaging in, or about to engage in, business as an innkeeper of any establishment covered by section 30-362 shall immediately register said business with Dawson County, on a form provided by the county for such purpose. The required registration hereunder shall set forth the name under which the innkeeper transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of the place or places of business, and such other information as would facilitate the collection of the tax by the county. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; by a member or general partner in case of ownership by an association or partnership; or by an appropriate officer in the case of ownership by a corporation.
(b)
A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an innkeeper.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 3; Ord. of 9-16-2021, § 1 (Exh. A))
Sec. 30-366. - Certificate of authority.
Upon the registration of an innkeeper as hereinabove provided, Dawson County shall issue to such innkeeper without charge a certificate of authority to collect the tax on occupants. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it relates. Such certificate of authority shall also constitute a license by the county to operate such an establishment; provided, however, that such license shall not relieve the innkeeper from obtaining any other required licenses or permits.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 4; Ord. of 9-16-2021, § 1 (Exh. A))
Sec. 30-367. - When due and payable.
All taxes levied by this section shall be due and payable to Dawson County monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective month in which such taxes are collected, and payment shall be accompanied by a return for the preceding monthly period showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, and such other information as may be required by the county.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 5)
Sec. 30-368. - Reimbursement.
Innkeepers collecting the tax levied hereunder shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction for submitting, reporting, and payment of the amount due, if said amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be three percent of the total amount of tax collected.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 6; Ord. of 9-16-2021, § 1 (Exh. A))
Sec. 30-369. - Failure to file return.
(a)
If any innkeeper fails to file a return as required under the provisions of this section, the county shall make an estimate of the amount of gross rentals that are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in which the innkeeper failed to file the return and shall be based upon any information that is or may come into the possession of the county.
(b)
The board of commissioners or designated representative shall give to the innkeeper written notice of the determination as herein provided. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail such service shall be addressed to the innkeeper at his/her/its address as it appears in the county's records. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(c)
The amount of the determination made hereunder shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period, for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(d)
In addition, a penalty of five percent of the tax due or $5.00, whichever is greater, for each 30 days or fraction thereof of delinquency, not to exceed 25 percent or $25.00 in the aggregate, whichever is greater, shall be assessed and paid by the innkeeper to the county.
(e)
The estimated tax together with applicable penalties and interest may be collected utilizing any of the enforcement methods set forth in this section.
(Res. of 2-19-2009, § III; Ord. of 9-16-2021, § 1 (Exh. A))
Sec. 30-370. - Records retention.
Each innkeeper collecting a tax under the provisions of this section shall keep for a period of at least three years all records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers setting forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as the county may require.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 8; Ord. of 9-16-2021, § 1 (Exh. A))
Sec. 30-371. - Administration and enforcement.
The board of commissioners or designated representative shall administer and enforce the provisions of this section for the collection of the tax herein imposed, and in so doing shall have the following powers:
(1)
To examine, or authorize the examination of, books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, and other facilities of any innkeeper subject to this article, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the innkeeper, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid;
(2)
To require the filing of reports by any person or persons having in their possession or custody information relating to rentals which are subject to the tax herein levied; and
(3)
To allow a credit on any amount due and payable from persons who paid the tax herein levied but who were erroneously or illegally subjected thereto.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 9; Res. of 2-19-2009, § III; Ord. of 9-16-2021, § 1 (Exh. A))
Sec. 30-372. - Court action for collection; time limit.
At any time within three years after any tax or any portion of such tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, the county attorney at the direction of the board of commissioners may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the county to collect such amount due together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees, and other legal fees incident thereto.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 10; Res. of 2-19-2009, § III)
Sec. 30-373. - Sale of business; liability for unpaid taxes.
If any innkeeper becomes liable for any amount required to be paid by this article and subsequent thereto sells out or quits the business, the successors or assigns of such innkeeper shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase price to cover such amount due. In the event said purchaser of the business fails to withhold the required amount, he/she/it shall become personally liable therefor to the extent of the tax owed, together with any applicable penalties and interest.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 11; Ord. of 9-16-2021, § 1 (Exh. A))
Sec. 30-374. - Violation of article provisions; penalty.
(a)
Any person who shall do anything prohibited by this article or who shall fail to do anything required by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, amenable to the process of the Magistrate Court of Dawson County and upon conviction, shall be assessed with any penalty, including fine, confinement, or both, allowed by law for the violation of county resolutions or ordinances. Each and every day that such violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
(b)
In order to enforce this article or to correct or abate any violation of this article, the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 12; Res. of 2-19-2009, § III)
State Law reference— Penalties for ordinance violations, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.
Sec. 30-375. - Other laws.
(a)
Any resolution or law which may be applicable hereto and aid in carrying out or making effective the intent, purpose, and provisions hereof, which shall be literally construed to be in favor of Dawson County is hereby adopted as a part hereof.
(b)
The effective date of this article shall be April 1, 1991.
(Res. of 4-1-1991, § 13; Res. of 2-19-2009, § III)
Secs. 30-376—30-393. - Reserved.
