Chapter 14 - COURTS AND LAW ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 14-1. - Jail construction and staffing; additional charges on criminal or traffic cases or bail bonds; use of funds.
(a)
This section will be known as the "Dawson County Jail Construction and Staffing Resolution."
(b)
In every case in which any superior court, state court, probate court, magistrate court, municipal court, or other court in Dawson County, Georgia, shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any ordinance of a political subdivision thereof, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(c)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or ordinance of a political subdivision thereof, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any superior court, state court, probate court, magistrate court, municipal court, or other court shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be paid over as provided in subsections (e) and (f) of this section.
(d)
Such sums required by subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund or O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 concerning the Judges of the Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia.
(e)
The sums provided for in subsections (b) through (d) of this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to Dawson County, Georgia, by the tenth day of the month following the month in which such sums are collected. Such sums paid over to Dawson County shall be deposited by Dawson County into a special account to be known as the "Dawson County Jail Fund."
(f)
Any person whose duty it is to collect and remit the sums provided for in this section who fails or refuses to remit such sums by the date required by this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(g)
Moneys collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended by Dawson County, Georgia, solely and exclusively for constructing, operating, and staffing county jails, county correctional institutions, and detention facilities of the county or for the purpose of contracting for such facilities with other counties, the state, municipalities, or other political subdivisions as authorized by Article IX, Section III, Paragraph I of the Constitution (Ga. Const. art. IX, § III, ¶ I). The Dawson County Jail Fund and moneys collected pursuant to this article to be placed in the Dawson County Jail Fund may be pledged as security for the payment of bonds issued for the construction of county jails, county correctional institutions, and detention facilities of Dawson County. This section shall not preclude the appropriation or expenditure of other funds by the governing authority of any county or by the General Assembly for the purpose of constructing, operating, or staffing jails, correctional institutions, and detention facilities.
(h)
Liability. The compliance with the provisions of this section shall not impose any liability upon Dawson County for damage to any person or property.
(i)
Other laws. It is hereby provided that any resolution or law which may be applicable hereto and made in carrying out or making effective the intent, purpose, and provisions hereof, which shall be literally construed to be in favor of Dawson County is hereby adopted as a part hereof.
(Res. No. 90-2, §§ I—V, 5-7-1990)
State Law reference— Jail Construction and Staffing Act, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-90 et seq.
