Chapter 16 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Enforcing ordinances concerning streets by the director of the utilities and public works department, § 2-46(1), (2); littering of streets, § 10-20 et seq.; use of closed street, removal of barricade, § 17-13; vision obstructions at intersections, § 17-14 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 90-2, adopted Jan. 15, 1990, designated §§ 16-1—16-15 as Art. I of this chapter.

Sec. 16-1. - Numbering of buildings—Required.
Each owner, lessor, lessee or occupant of any residence or place of business within the city shall maintain on the building in the vicinity of the front entry, so that the numbers are readily visible from the street, street numbers showing the correct number for the street, avenue or boulevard upon which the residence or business building is located.
(Ord. No. 80-10, § 1, 11-3-80)
Sec. 16-2. - Same—Minimum height; reflectorized material.
Street numbers for buildings shall be no less than four (4) inches in height, and shall be of reflectorized or illuminated material so as to be visible after sunset.
(Ord. No. 80-10, § 2, 11-3-80)
Sec. 16-3. - Same—Responsibility for placing and maintaining.
The responsibility to place and maintain such reflectorized or illuminated street numbers shall be the joint and several responsibility of the owner, lessor, lessee and occupant of any residence or business building within the city.
(Ord. No. 80-10, § 3, 11-3-80)
Sec. 16-4. - Plan of installations required.
All persons are hereby required to file a plan with the city clerk showing any new installations and all changes of every character contemplated in connection therewith on the streets and sidewalks of the city.
(Code 1972, § 5-1501)
Sec. 16-5. - Minimum width and conveyance to city of new streets.
No new streets shall be laid out or opened in the city of a width of less than forty (40) feet, and all new streets hereafter laid out and opened shall be conveyed to the city for street purposes by the person so laying out such streets.
(Code 1972, § 5-1502)
Sec. 16-6. - Agreement for installation of pipe.
No street or subdivision shall be accepted by the city until there is an agreement between the city and developer, owner, or contractor concerning the drainage and installation of sewer and driveway culvert pipe.
(Code 1972, § 5-1520)
Sec. 16-7. - Permit for digging and hauling material from street or sidewalk.
No person shall dig or haul any sand, dirt, brick or other material from any street or sidewalk without a permit from the city clerk.
(Code 1972, § 5-1509)
Sec. 16-8. - Excavations—Permit required.
No person shall in any way dig into, tear up or excavate any portion of any paved street or sidewalk of the city for any purpose without first obtaining a permit from the city clerk or the mayor.
(Code 1972, § 5-1510)
Sec. 16-9. - Same—Restoration.
Any person after obtaining a permit to dig into, tear up or excavate a portion of a sidewalk or street shall agree in writing to repair and restore the same to the condition existing before the work, or better; and shall comply with such agreement.
(Code 1972, § 5-1511)
Sec. 16-10. - General obstructions.
Without the express written permission from the mayor and council following receipt of a completed application submitted to the city manager: (1) no person shall obstruct any sidewalk or street in the city by putting any box, table, steps, merchandise or any other thing thereon or use the streets and sidewalks for the display of goods, wares or merchandise of any kind; and (2) nor shall the streets, sidewalks, right-of-way or any other public property be obstructed or used in any other manner whatsoever, except as otherwise provided in article II of chapter 17 of this Code with respect to parades.
(Code 1972, § 5-1513; Ord. No. 2012-46, 11-19-12)
Cross reference— Removal of vehicle obstructing traffic, § 17-26.
Sec. 16-11. - Trash, lumber, wood, etc., on streets.
No person shall put any trash, lumber, wood, boxes, bricks or other substances in or on any street or sidewalk without a permit from the city clerk.
(Code 1972, § 5-1514)
Sec. 16-12. - Signals and barricades to warn of obstruction—Required.
Any person who shall cause any obstruction to be placed in or on any street or sidewalk of the city under permit therefor shall display at such obstruction, every day and night such obstruction may so remain, sufficient lights and barricades to warn the traveling public of such obstruction and to enable the public to avoid injury from the same.
(Code 1972, § 5-1515)
Sec. 16-13. - Same—Removal.
No person shall remove or tear down any light or barricade put upon any street or sidewalk for the purpose of warning or notifying persons that such street or sidewalk or portion thereof is closed.
(Code 1972, § 5-1512)
Sec. 16-14. - Driveway permit.
No person shall construct, establish, open, grade, or in any manner, form or use a driveway, or other opening from private property into any street, highway or thoroughfare in the city, other than driveways to personal residences, without first obtaining a permit from the city. Before such permit is granted to a person so desiring a driveway, the city engineer, or such other person as may be designated by the city manager, shall inspect and make necessary requirements that shall be met.
(Code 1972, § 5-1519)
Sec. 16-15. - Driveway culverts.
All driveway culverts must be installed so as not to impede the natural flow of water through the existing drain.
(Code 1972, § 5-1521)
Sec. 16-15.1. - Obstruction of city drainage easements and structures.
(a)
The term "person" shall be as defined in section 1-2 Powder Springs City Code (Code 1972, Section 1-102). The term "obstruction" shall mean any trash, debris, garbage, refuse, demolition or construction waste materials, yard trimmings, rubbish, furniture, appliances, dead animals, or other solid substances or materials. The term "city drainage easement or structure" shall mean any area, ditch, channel, pipe, pond, or drainage structure or storm water conduit dedicated to, and accepted by, the City of Powder Springs for the purpose of storm water collection, detention, discharge or control.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or allow or cause to be placed or deposited, in any city drainage easement or structure any obstruction which obstructs, restricts, or tends to obstruct or restrict the free flow of surface water drainage into, through, or out of said drainage easement or structure, or which renders said drainage easement or structure less effective in controlling storm water.
(c)
It shall further be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse, following ten (10) days' written notice from the city, to completely remove from any city drainage easement or structure any obstruction placed therein by such person, or caused or allowed to be placed therein by such person.
(d)
In the event any person places, allows, or causes to be placed, any obstruction in a city drainage easement or structure, and fails to remove such obstruction within ten (10) days following written notice from the city, the city may remove such obstruction, and said person so failing or refusing to remove same shall be liable to the city for the actual costs to the city of removing such obstruction. Violations of this section may also be abated by application to the Superior Court of Cobb County for injunctive relief, and by any and all other means allowed by law.
(e)
This section shall be liberally construed in favor of the city, cumulative in nature, and not in lieu of any other ordinances or remedies available to the city.
(Ord. No. 94-16, 8-1-94)
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 94-16, adopted August 1, 1994, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion as § 16-15.1 was at the discretion of the editor.
Cross reference— Solid waste collection and disposal, § 11-40 et seq.
ARTICLE II. - TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH WIRES, AND OTHER COMMUNICATION CABLES AND CONDUITS

Sec. 16-16. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, except a franchisee, to place a telephone, telegraph or other communication wire, cable or conduit upon, under or above the right-of-way of a city street or streets without first having obtained from the city manager a permit to do so. This permit, if granted by the city manager, shall be in duplicate, specifying the name of the street(s) involved; the purpose for which the wire, cable or conduit is run; the type and length of wire, cable or conduit to be run; the extent of the construction to be performed; and the time allowed for performance of the work.
(Ord. No. 90-2, 1-15-90)
Sec. 16-17. - Term of permit.
All permits issued hereunder shall be valid for one (1) year from the date of issuance. The permit shall be renewable annually as long as the person, firm or corporation desires to maintain the wire, cable or conduit upon, under or above the right-of-way of the street(s) involved.
(Ord. No. 90-2, 1-15-90)
Sec. 16-18. - Permit fee.
The fee for a permit required by this article shall be three dollars ($3.00) per foot of wire, cable or conduit occupying a street(s) per year.
(Ord. No. 90-2, 1-15-90)
Sec. 16-19. - Installation.
The installation of telephone, telegraph or other communication wires, cables or conduits shall be done by a licensed contractor; and such work shall be done in a workmanlike manner in accordance with any specifications provided by the city manager.
(Ord. No. 90-2, 1-15-90)
Sec. 16-20. - Clearance.
Any person, firm or corporation who is installing an overhead wire or cable across a city street(s) shall at all times maintain a minimum eighteen-foot clearance above the surface of the street(s).
(Ord. No. 90-2, 1-15-90)
Sec. 16-21. - Compliance with excavation requirements.
Any person, firm or corporation who is installing an underground wire, cable or conduit requiring a permit shall also comply with all laws or ordinances which deal with excavations into a public street.
(Ord. No. 90-2, 1-15-90)
Cross reference— Excavating and trenching, § 5-90 et seq.
Sec. 16-22. - Responsibility for damage or injury.
The permit issued pursuant to section 16-16 shall also specify that the permittee shall at all times be responsible to the public and indemnify and hold the city harmless for any property damage or personal injury caused or occasioned by the installation, maintenance or occupancy of any wire, cable or conduit under, upon or above a street right-of-way as permitted herein.
(Ord. No. 90-2, 1-15-90)
Sec. 16-23. - Relocation of wires, cable or conduit.
The city manager shall be authorized to require permittees hereunder to relocate their wire, cable or conduit in the event such relocation is a public necessity. The city manager may also require an overhead wire or cable to be relocated underground if the street(s) involved should convert from an overhead telephone system to an underground telephone system.
(Ord. No. 90-2, 1-15-90)
Secs. 16-24—16-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - UTILITY ACCOMODATION POLICY
DIVISION 1. - DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND PURPOSE, SCOPE, DEFINITIONS

Sec. 16-31. - Intent and purpose.
The City of Powder Springs (the "city") is vitally concerned with the use, construction within, and occupancy of all rights-of-way in the city as such rights-of-way are a valuable and limited resource which must be utilized to promote the public health, safety, welfare, economic development of the city and to protect public work infrastructure. Therefore, the city, under the authority of the Laws and Constitution of the State of Georgia, including but not limited to Article 9, Section 2, Paragraphs 2 of the Georgia Constitution, O.C.G.A. 36-35-3 and O.C.G.A. 32-4-92(10), has adopted this article for the purpose of regulating public and private entities which use the city rights-of-way.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 1.1, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-32. - Scope.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all utilities and facilities occupying the rights-of-way as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 1.1, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-33. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations have the meanings set forth herein. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning. References hereafter to "sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms whether or not capitalized.
City means the City of Powder, Georgia.
Codified ordinances means the codified ordinances of the City of Powder Springs, Georgia.
Construct means, but shall not be limited to, dig, bore, tunnel, trench, excavate, obstruct, install or remove signs, or facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the rights-of-way. Construct shall also include the act of opening and/or cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface that is any part of the right-of-way.
Construction means, but shall not be limited to, the act or process of digging, boring, tunneling, trenching, excavating, obstructing, installing or removing signs or facilities, other than landscaping or ornamental plantings, in, on, above, within, over, below, under, or through any part of the rights-of-way. Construction shall also include the act of opening, boring and/or cutting into the surface of any part of the right-of-way.
Director means the public works director of the City of Powder Springs, Georgia, or his or her designee.
Emergency means a condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to life, health, or safety of a person, or of significant damage or loss of real or personal property.
Facility or facilities means any tangible thing, including but not limited to pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, appurtenances, appliances and future technology of any utility in, on. along, over, or under any part of the rights-of-way within the city.
Facilities representative(s) means the specifically identified agent(s)/employee(s) of a utility who are authorized to direct field activities of that utility and serve as official notice agent(s) for facilities related information. Utility shall be required to make sure at least one (1) of its facilities representatives is available at all times to receive notice of, and immediately direct response to, facilities related emergencies or situations.
FCC means the Federal Communications Commission or any successor thereto.
Permit means an authorization which grants permission to conduct specific regulated activities on, in, over, under or within any public right-of-way, and which may be subject to conditions specified in a written agreement with the city or in a related provision of this Code of Ordinances.
Right(s)-of-way means the surface and space in, on, above, within, over, below, under or through any real property in which the city has an interest in law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a trustee for the public, including, but not limited to any public street, boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, or any other place, area, or real property owned by or under the legal or equitable control of the city, now or hereafter, that consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may be used for the purposes of constructing, operating, repairing or replacing facilities.
Service(s) means the offering of any service by a utility for a fee directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the public, or alternatively, the provision of any service by a utility between two (2) or more points for a proprietary purpose to a class of users other than the general public.
Service agreement means a valid license agreement, service agreement, franchise agreement, or operating agreement issued by the city or state pursuant to law and accepted by a utility or entered into by and between the city and a utility, which allows such utility to operate or provide service within the geographic limits of the city.
Street or streets means the surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all the streets, alleys, avenues, roads, bridges, tunnels and public places of the city within the corporate limits of the city, as the same now exist or may be hereafter extended or altered, and any location thereon, thereover or thereunder, and any portion thereof.
Transfer means the disposal by the utility, directly or indirectly, by gift, assignment, sale, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of more than fifty (50) percent at one (1) time of the ownership or controlling interest in the facilities, or of more than fifty (50) percent cumulatively over the term of a written approval of registration of such interests to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, trust, or association, or person or group of persons acting in concert.
Unused facilities means facilities located in the rights-of-way which have remained unused for twelve (12) months and for which the utility is unable to provide the city with a plan detailing the procedure by which the utility intends to begin actively using such facilities within the next twelve (12) months, or that it has a potential purchaser or user of the facilities who will be actively using the facilities within the next twelve (12) months, or, that the availability of such facilities is required by the utility to adequately and efficiently operate its facilities.
Utility or utilities means all privately, publicly, or cooperatively owned systems for producing, transmitting, or distributing communication, data, information, telecommunication, cable television, video services, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water/sewer, steam, fire and police signals, traffic control devices, and street lighting systems, and housing or conduit for any of the foregoing, which directly or indirectly serve the public or any part thereof. The term "utility" may also be used to refer to the owner, operator, utility, service, contractor or subcontractor, or any agent thereof, of any above-described utility or utility facility.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 1.3, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-34. - Reservation of regulatory and police powers.
The city, by issuing a written approval of registration under this chapter, does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or lessen the lawful powers and rights, which it has now or may be hereafter vested in the city under the Constitution and Laws of the United States, State of Georgia and the City Charter, and under the provisions of the city's Codified Ordinances to regulate the use of the rights-of-way. The utility by applying for and being issued a written permit, is deemed to acknowledge that all lawful powers and rights, regulatory power, or police power, or otherwise as are or the same may be from time to time vested in or reserved to the city, shall be in full force and effect and subject to the exercise thereof by the city at any time. A utility is deemed to acknowledge that its interests are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary for the safety and welfare of the public and is deemed to agree to comply with all applicable general laws enacted by the city pursuant to such powers. In particular, all utilities shall comply with city zoning and other land use requirements pertaining to the placement and specifications of facilities.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 9.2, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-35. - Compliance.
No person shall be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this article by reason of any failure of city to enforce compliance.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 9.3, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-36. - Appeal of administrative decisions.
All appeals provided for by this article and any notification to the city required by this article shall be in writing and sent via certified mail to the director as specified in this article.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 9.4, 9-23-09)
Secs. 16-37—16-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - UTILITY REGISTRATION

Sec. 16-41. - Registration required.
Each utility who occupies, uses or has facilities in the rights-of-way at the time of passage of this article, including by lease, sublease or assignment, to operate facilities located in the rights-of-way, unless specifically exempted by state or federal law or this Code, shall file a registration statement with the city within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this article.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 2.1, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-42. - Registration procedure.
The registration information provided to the city shall be on a form approved by the city and include, but not be limited to:
(1)
The name, legal status (i.e. partnership, corporation, etc.), street address, email address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the utility filing the registration statement (the "registrant"). If the registrant is not the owner of the facility in the right-of-way, the registration shall include the name, street address, email address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the owner;
(2)
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one (1) or more facilities representative(s). Current information regarding how to contact the facilities representative(s) in an emergency shall be provided at the time of filing a registration and shall be updated as necessary to assure accurate contact information is available to the city at all times;
(3)
A copy, if requested, of the utility's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements.
(4)
A copy, if requested, of the service agreement, if applicable or other legal instrument that authorizes the utility to use or occupy the right-of-way for the purpose described in the registration.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 2.2, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-43. - Incomplete registration.
If a registration is incomplete, the director shall notify the registrant and shall provide a reasonable period of time in which to complete the registration. If a registration is complete, the director shall so notify the utility in writing.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 2.3, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-44. - Acceptance of the registration shall not convey title in the rights-of-way.
Acceptance of the registration is only the nonexclusive, limited right to occupy rights-of-way in the city for the limited purposes stated in the acceptance. Acceptance of the registration does not excuse a utility from obtaining permits required by city ordinances nor from obtaining appropriate access or pole attachment agreements before using the facilities of others, including the city. Acceptance of the registration does not excuse a utility from notifying the city of construction as required herein.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 2.4, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-45. - Facilities in place without registration.
Beginning one (1) year after the effective date of this article, any facilities or part of a facility found in a right-of-way for which registration is required but has not been obtained unless specifically exempted by law, and for which no valid service agreement exists with the city, may be deemed to be a nuisance and an unauthorized use of the rights-of-way. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity, including, but not limited to abating the nuisance; taking possession of the facilities, evicting the utility from the right-of-way; prosecuting the violator; and/or any other remedy provided by city ordinance or otherwise allowed in law or in equity.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 2.5, 9-23-09)
Secs. 16-46—16-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CONSTRUCTION PERMITS

Sec. 16-51. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any utility to excavate or to construct, install, maintain, renew, remove or relocate facilities in, on, along, over or under the public roads of the city without a utility permit from the department of public works in accordance with the terms of this article.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 3.1, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-52. - Permit procedure.
Utility permits shall be obtained from the director (or such other person as the city manager may designate) upon application made on forms prescribed by the department of public works. The written application shall include the following:
(1)
The name and address of the utility;
(2)
The nature, extent, and location of any work proposed to be done, along with satisfactory plans as attachments showing in detail the location of the proposed facility or operations as described in the permit application. The plans shall show the size or capacity of facilities to be installed; their relationship to street features such as right-of-way lines, pavement edge, structures, etc., horizontal and vertical clearance to critical elements of the roadway and any other information necessary to evaluate the impact on the street and its operation;
(3)
The name and address of the person or firm who is to do such work;
(4)
The name, street address, email address if applicable and telephone and facsimile numbers of one (1) or more facilities representative(s).
(5)
The projected dates for the work to be started and finished;
(6)
An indemnity bond or other acceptable security in an amount to be set by the city to pay any damages to any part of the city road system or other city property or to any city employee or member of the public caused by activity or work of the utility performed under authority of the permit issued;
(7)
A copy, if requested, of the registrant's certificate of authority (or other acceptable evidence of authority to operate) from the Georgia Public Service Commission and/or the FCC and any other similar approvals, permits, or agreements; and
(8)
A copy, if requested, of the service agreement, if applicable, or other legal instrument that authorizes the utility to use or occupy the right-of-way for the purpose described in the application.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 3.2, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-53. - Permit fees.
Fees shall be determined by the director, subject to the approval by resolution of the city council. A fee schedule shall be available at the offices of the director and the city clerk and open for public inspection.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 3.4, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-54. - Issuance of permit.
If the director determines that the following requirements have been met, the director may issue a permit.
(1)
Issuance of the approval will be consistent with this article; and
(2)
Applicant has submitted a complete application and has secured all certificates and other authorizations required by law, if applicable, in order to construct facilities in the manner proposed by the applicant; and
(3)
There will be no unduly adverse impact on safety, visual quality of the streets, traffic flow, and other users of the right-of-way in consideration of the difficulty and length of time of the project, construction or maintenance.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 3.4, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-55. - Emergency situations.
(1)
Each utility shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, notify the director of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be an emergency. The utility may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary in order to respond to the emergency. A utility which engages in an emergency excavation shall take all reasonable precautions to avoid or minimize damage to any existing facilities and shall promptly restore or repair any affected right-of-way or facilities therein.
(2)
In the event that the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding utility facilities, the city may attempt to contact the affected utility or facilities representative. The city may take whatever action it deems necessary in order to respond to the emergency, including cutting or moving any of the wires, cables, amplifiers, appliances, or other parts of the facilities. The city shall not incur any liability to the utility, for such emergency actions, and the cost of such shall be paid by each utility affected by the emergency.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 3.5, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-56. - Effective period of permit.
(1)
Each permit shall have a commencement and expiration date based on information provided in the applicant's permit application.
(2)
The permit shall remain in place until construction is completed or until its expiration date unless the utility is in default. The director may give written notice of default to a utility if it is determined that a utility has:
a.
Violated any provision or requirement of the issuance or acceptance of a permit application or any law of the city, state, or federal government:
b.
Attempted to evade any provision or requirement of this article;
c.
Practiced any fraud or deceit upon the city; or
d.
Made a material misrepresentation or omission of fact in its permit application.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 3.6, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-57. - Cancellation for cause.
If a utility fails to cure a default within twenty (20) working days after such notice is provided to the utility by the city, then such default shall be a material breach and city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity to terminate the permit. If the director decides there is cause or reason to terminate, the following procedure shall be followed:
(1)
City shall serve a utility with a written notice of the reason or cause for proposed termination and shall allow a utility fifteen (15) calendar days to cure its breach.
(2)
If the utility fails to cure within fifteen (15) calendar days, the city may declare the permit terminated.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 1.1, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-58. - Expiration of permit.
If work is not begun within six (6) months of the date of issuance, the permit will automatically expire.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 1.1, 9-23-09)
Secs. 16-59—16-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REQUIRED MINIMUM STANDARDS

Sec. 16-71. - Utility accommodation manual adopted.
The 1988 Utility Accommodation Policy and Standards manual, including all references contained therein to codes, rules, regulations, schedules, forms and appendix items, except Appendix B (Permit Forms and supporting Documents), promulgated by the State of Georgia Department of Transportation, as may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated in this division as if fully set forth herein, subject to the amendments and modifications contained in this article. A copy of the manual shall be maintained at the offices of the director or his designee and open for public inspection. Any conflicts between the provisions of this article and the manual shall be resolved in favor of the manual. References to state personnel, agencies, and fees shall be interpreted, where required, as meaning the City of Powder Springs.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 4.1, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-72. - Protection of traffic and roadway.
Unless specifically set forth in the permit, no utility may occupy the city rights-of-way unless sufficient space is available so that the free flow and safety of traffic and other capacity considerations are not unduly impaired and the installation does not prevent the department from reasonably maintaining the streets, structures, traffic control devices and other appurtenant facilities, and further provided that maintenance and operations of the facilities do not jeopardize the traffic, street structure, other users of the right-of-way or the right-of-way itself.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 4.2, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-73. - Grading.
If the grades or lines of any street within the city right-of-way are changed at any time by the city during the term of the permit and this change involves an area in which the utility's facilities are located, then the utility shall, at its own cost and expense and upon the request of the city upon reasonable notice, protect or promptly alter or relocate the facilities, or any part thereof, so as to conform with such new grades or lines. In the event the utility refuses or neglects to so protect, alter, or relocate all or part of the facilities, the city shall have the right to break through, remove, alter, or relocate all or any part of the facilities without any liability to the utility and the utility shall pay to the city the costs incurred in connection with such breaking through, removal, alteration, or relocation.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 4.3, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-74. - Installation of poles and other wire holding structures and relocation.
Unless otherwise provided in a valid service agreement, no placement of any pole or wire holding structure of the utility is to be considered a vested interest in the right-of-way, and such poles or structures are to be removed, relocated underground, or modified by the utility at its own expense whenever the city determines that the public convenience would be enhanced thereby. The facilities shall be so located and installed as to cause minimum interference with the rights and convenience of property owners.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 4.4, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-75. - Blasting or excavating.
As provided in O.C.G.A § 25-9-6 (the Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act) and other applicable state law currently in place or as amended, no utility shall commence, perform, or engage in blasting or in excavating with mechanized excavating facilities unless and until the utility planning the blasting or excavating has given forty-eight (48) hours' notice by submitting a locate request to the Utility Protection Center, beginning the next business day (as defined in the Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act) after such notice is provided, excluding hours during days other than business days.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 4.5, 9-23-09)
Secs. 16-76—16-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - RESTORATION OF PROPERTY

Sec. 16-81. - [Responsibility for cost of repair.]
Each utility shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the rights-of-way and adjoining property or other facilities which it or its facilities damage.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 5.1, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-82. - [Liability of replacement, restoration or repair of street, facilities or property or structure.]
A utility shall be liable, at its own cost and expense, to replace, restore or repair, any street, facilities or property or structure thereon, thereunder, thereover or adjacent thereto that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of the construction or installation, operation, upgrade, repair or removal of facilities to a condition as good as or better than its condition before the work performed by the utility that caused such disturbance or damage. If the utility does not commence such replacement or repair after twenty (20) working days following written notice from the city, the city or the owner of the affected structure or property may make such replacement or repair and the utility shall pay the reasonable and actual cost of the same.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 5.2, 9-23-09)
Secs. 16-83—16-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - INSPECTION

Sec. 16-101. - [Available for inspection.]
The utility shall make the construction site available to the director and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable times during the execution and upon completion of the construction.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 6.1, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-102. - [Cessation of work.]
At any time, including the time of inspection, the director may order the immediate cessation of any construction which poses a serious threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the public, violates any law, or which violates the terms and conditions of the permit and/or this chapter or issue an order to correct work which does not conform to the permit and/or applicable standards, conditions or codes.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 6.2, 9-23-09)
Sec. 16-103. - [Notice of completion.]
When the construction under any permit is completed, the utility shall notify the department.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 6.3, 9-23-09)
Secs. 16-104—16-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - OTHER APPROVALS, PERMITS AND AGREEMENTS

Sec. 16-121. - Additional permits required.
The utility shall obtain all construction, building or other permits or approvals as according to city ordinance, state or federal law. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all requirements of laws, shall complete work in a way as to not cause any unnecessary or unauthorized obstructions of sidewalks, streets, waterways or railways, and is responsible for all work done in the rights-of-way regardless of who performs the work. No rights-of-way obstruction or excavation may be performed when seasonally prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work, except in the case of an emergency as outlined in section 16-55.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 7.1, 9-23-09)
Secs. 16-122—16-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 8. - PENALTIES

Sec. 16-131. - [Penalties.]
Every utility convicted of a violation of any provision of this article shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the city may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
(Ord. No. 2009-40, § 8.1, 9-23-09)
Secs. 16-132—16-139. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MOTION PICTURE, TELEVISION AND PHOTOGRAPHIC PRODUCTION

Sec. 16-140. - Title.
This article shall be known as the motion picture, television and photographic production ordinance of the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-141. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following terms phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein.
Motion picture, television and photographic production shall mean all activity attendant to staging or shooting (video taping or filming) commercial motion pictures, television shows, programs or commercials, and to the taking of single or multiple photographs for sale or use for a commercial purpose where the photographer sets up stationary equipment on public or private property or the public right-of-way in any one (1) location for longer than five (5) consecutive minutes.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-142. - Permit required.
No person shall use any public right-of-way, or any public or private property, facility or residence for the purpose of producing, taking or making any commercial motion picture, television or photographic production as defined in Section without a permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-143. - Permit exemptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the following:
(1)
Current news productions, which includes reporter, photographers or camera persons in the employment of a newspaper, news service, broadcasting station or similar entity engaged in the broadcasting of a news event.
(2)
Productions which are conducted by the city or city-sanctioned organizations or governmental agencies as approved by the city council.
(3)
Productions which are conducted within legally established commercial motion picture/television/still photography studios, and
(4)
Student filming.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-144. - Permit application.
Any person desiring a permit under the provisions of the article shall make application on the appropriate form provided by the city's economic development department or by furnishing the required information by telephone to the economic development director or his/her designee. The form must be signed and accompanied by all required fees, deposits hold harmless agreement and insurance certificate required by this article before it will be processed. If the application satisfies the criteria of the article, the permit shall be issued within two (2) working days of submittal, or within four (4) working days of submittal if the activity requires traffic control in excess of three (3) minutes or includes stunts or special effects, or within ten (10) working days of submittal if activities require road closures.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-145. - Permit fees.
(a)
Each application shall be accompanied by the following fees:
(1)
A processing fee in an amount established by resolution of the city council to reimburse the city for the staff time required to evaluate the application and establish conditions of approval. The processing fee may be waived, at the discretion of the economic development director, for charitable and nonprofit organizations which qualify under Section 501 (c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, if substantial benefits will inure to the city.
(2)
A daily property use fee in an amount established by resolution of the city council to reimburse the city for the staff time required to monitor the activity, as well as to compensate the city for the use of public property and its unavailability for ordinary and usual purposes resulting from the filming activity. The property use fee shall be waived for the following:
a.
Productions conducted by a cable television company operating under a franchise granted by the city which are not conducted on public property, do not interfere with public right-of-ways, and which involve fewer than two (2) motor vehicles; and
b.
Student filming.
(b)
The property use fee may be waived for:
Productions for wholly charitable or educational purposes and from which no profit is derived, either directly or indirectly, at the discretion of the economic development director if he or she determines that substantial benefits will inure to the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-146. - Permit issuance—Conditions.
The economic development director or his/her designee shall issue a permit as provided for in this article when, from a consideration of the application and from such other information as may be otherwise obtained, he or she finds that:
(1)
The conduct of such activity will not unduly interfere with traffic or pedestrian movement or endanger public safety and that no streets will be completely closed to traffic for an unreasonable period of time. Seventy-two (72) hours notice of any street closure shall be provided.
(2)
The conduct of such activity will not unduly interfere with normal governmental or City operations, threaten to result in damage or detriment to public property, or result in the city incurring costs or expenditures in either money or personnel not reimbursed in advance by the applicant.
(3)
At the determination of the economic development director or his/her designee as well as the city's police department, public works department, city clerk's office and the county's fire, as appropriate, that such activity will not constitute a fire hazard or any other type of hazard and all safety precautions will be taken as determined by the heads of the aforementioned departments or their designees.
(4)
The decision to issue, conditionally issue, or deny a permit shall be final unless appealed in writing within five (5) working days of the decision to the city manager. The city manager will render a decision to issue, conditionally issue or uphold the denial of a permit within two (2) days of the appeal. The decision of the city manager will be final.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-147. - Additional services.
If deemed necessary by the economic development director or his/her designee, additional police, code enforcement, and other city services shall be provided for the purpose of protecting, assisting and regulating the proposed activity. The cost of providing such additional services shall be paid in advance to the city by the applicant. Any additional city services will be provided/coordinated through the economic development director or his/her designee.
Sec. 16-148. - Insurance.
As a condition of issuing such a permit, the applicant shall furnish insurance in the amount to be determined by the Economic Development Director, but in no event, an amount less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00), to protect the city against claims of third persons for personal injury, wrongful death and property damage and to indemnify the city for damage to the city property arising out of the permittee's activities. A minimum of five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) of such general liability insurance coverage shall be required in the event aircraft, helicopters, pyrotechnics or automobile chase scenes are used in the activity. Such insurance shall be evidenced by the standard general liability special endorsement form mandated by this article. Applicant shall also submit verification that adequate worker's compensation insurance coverage is maintained.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-149. - Hold harmless agreement.
The applicant shall execute a hold harmless agreement as provided by the city prior to the issuance of any permit.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-150. - Conditions—Restrictions.
The applicant shall maintain a copy of the photography/motion picture permit on-site at all times.
The applicant shall also comply with any and all conditions or restrictions the city may impose as a condition to issuing a permit. No changes in conditions or restrictions shall be made without first obtaining the approval of the director of economic development or his/her designee.
Minor changes to the permit may be approved by the economic development department or his/her designee prior to completion of filming in the form of a written attachment to the permit.
Permittee's shall have non-exclusive use of facilities unless otherwise granted in writing.
The city and its agents are not responsible for disturbances caused during film activities.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-151. - Clean-up/restoration.
The applicant shall conduct operations in an orderly fashion with continuous attention to the storage of equipment not in use, maintenance of the area and the cleanup of trash and debris. The areas used shall be cleaned or trash and debris within two (2) hours of the completion of the activity or within such other time established in the permit to city's satisfaction. Applicant shall be responsible for restoring an area damaged or disrupted before leaving the site. If the site is not repaired or restored to the city's satisfaction, the economic development director or his/her designee shall have the necessary restoration and/or repairs performed and applicant shall reimburse city for such work within twenty (20) days of completing filming. In the event applicant fails to so reimburse city, city may secure its reimbursement from either a cash or surety bond which shall be posted with the city to ensure faithful performance of such restoration. Such faithful performance bond shall be filed at the time of the application in an amount of five hundred ($500.00) dollars or in any higher amount determined by the economic development director or his/her designee to be reasonably required under the circumstances. The amount of the bond shall in no way limit the applicant's liability or responsibility for the costs of repairs or restoration in the event these costs exceed the bond amount.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
Sec. 16-152. - Administrative regulations.
The economic development director or his/her designee, with the approval of the city manager, is hereby authorized to promulgate and enforce administrative regulations in the implementation and enforcement of the article.
(Ord. No. 2017-026 , § 1, 10-2-17)
