ARTICLE VIII. - SAVE PROGRAM

Sec. 2-200. - Applicability—Public benefits.
(a)
In this article, "applicant" means any natural person, eighteen (18) years of age or older, who has made application for access to public benefits on behalf of an individual, business, corporation, partnership, or other private entity.
(b)
No state or local public benefit, as defined in 8 U.S.C. § 1621, or federal public benefit, as defined in 8 U.S.C. § 1611, where said federal public benefit is administered by an agency or political subdivision of this state, shall be granted to any applicant who is not a citizen of the United States or a legal permanent resident eighteen (18) years of age or older or a qualified alien or nonimmigrant under the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Act eighteen (18) years of age or older lawfully present in the United States. This section shall apply to new and renewal applicants.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, 3-2-09; Ord. No. 2011-09, § 1, 6-29-11)
Sec. 2-201. - Verification of applicants.
(a)
Every applicant for such state, local or federal benefits described in section 2-200 immediately above, who is a natural person, shall submit with the application an affidavit executed by the applicant in such form as required by the city that the applicant is a United States citizen or legal permanent resident eighteen (18) years of age or older or a qualified alien or nonimmigrant under the Federal Immigration and Nationality Act eighteen (18) years of age or older lawfully present in the United States. The requirements set forth herein shall apply to new and renewal applications and applicants.
(b)
Verification of lawful presence under this article shall not be required:
(1)
For any purpose for which lawful presence in the United States is not required by law, ordinance, or regulation;
(2)
For assistance for health care items and services that are necessary for the treatment of an emergency medical condition, as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1396b(v)(3), of the alien involved and are not related to an organ transplant procedure;
(3)
For short-term, noncash, in-kind emergency disaster relief;
(4)
For public health assistance for immunizations with respect to immunizable diseases and for testing and treatment of symptoms of communicable diseases whether or not such symptoms are caused by a communicable disease;
(5)
For programs, services, or assistance such as soup kitchens, crisis counseling and intervention, and short-term shelter specified by the United States Attorney General, in the United States Attorney General's sole and unreviewable discretion after consultation with appropriate federal agencies and departments, which:
(A)
Deliver in-kind services at the community level, including through public or private nonprofit agencies;
(B)
Do not condition the provision of assistance, the amount of assistance provided, or the cost of assistance provided on the individual recipient's income or resources; and
(C)
Are necessary for the protection of life or safety;
(6)
For prenatal care;
(7)
For postsecondary education, whereby the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia or the State Board of Technical and Adult Education shall set forth, or cause to be set forth, policies regarding postsecondary benefits that comply with all federal law including but not limited to public benefits as described in 8 U.S.C. §§ 1611, 1621, or 1623; or
(8)
Where exempted by federal law.
(c)
For any applicant who has executed an affidavit that he or she is an alien, legal permanent resident or nonimmigrant lawfully present in the United States, eligibility for benefits shall be made through the Systematic Alien Verification of Entitlement (SAVE) program operated by the United States Department of Homeland Security or a successor program designated by the United States Department of Homeland Security. Until such eligibility verification is made, the affidavit may be presumed to be proof of lawful presence for the purposes of sections 2-200 and 2-201 of the city's Code.
(d)
Any person who knowingly and willfully makes a false, fictitious or fraudulent statement of representation in an affidavit executed under this article shall be guilty of a violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-10-20. However, any applicant for federal benefits as defined in 8 U.S.C. § 1611 or state or local benefits as defined in 8 U.S.C. § 1621 shall not be guilty of any crime for executing an affidavit attesting to lawful presence in the United States that contains a false statement if said affidavit is not required by section 2-200 and/or section 2-201 of the city's Code.
(Ord. No. 2009-008, 3-2-09; Ord. No. 2011-09, §§ 2, 3, 6-29-11)
Secs. 2-202—2-299. - Reserved.
