Chapter 6 - COURT AND CRIMINAL PROCEDURE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Municipal court, § 4.10 et seq.

Sec. 6-1. - Types of bail.
All persons charged with a violation of a provision of this Code or other city ordinance are entitled to be released in accordance with their qualification in one (1) of the following categories:
(1)
Copy of charges. All bona fide citizens of the city or county are entitled to release on copy of charges provided the violation is the first violation and the cash bond would not exceed sixty dollars ($60.00).
(2)
Posting cash bond. All persons charged with a violation of a provision of this Code or other city ordinance will be permitted to post a cash bond in the amount specified in the cash bond schedule.
(3)
Signed bonds. Any taxpayer of the city or county may sign a bond in an amount of twice the cash bond schedule, for themselves or anyone of their choice, provided, that only one (1) bond shall be outstanding at any time. Current tax receipt, with copy of deed to property to be pledged, will provide sufficient proof of ownership.
(4)
Security bonds. Any licensed professional bondsman, or such bondsman's employee of record, may sign a bond in an amount of twice the cash bond schedule, provided, said bondsman maintains such business in accordance with professional bonding regulations of this Code, if any.
(Ord. of 9-3-73, §§ 1—4)
Sec. 6-2. - Bond as security; failure to appear; forfeiture of bond.
When police officers have made arrest of any offender against any provision of the Code or other city ordinance, and where a bond is required and a trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take bond and security for the defendant's appearance before the municipal judge, or if such person fails or refuses to give such bond, the officer may confine such offender in the city jail until a trial can be held. When a bond is taken and the offender shall fail to appear at the time appointed, the municipal judge shall forfeit such bond and issue a rule against such defendant on a day to be named, or in default thereof, that judgment be entered against the defendant and such securities.
(Code 1972, § 6-202)
Sec. 6-3. - Cash bond as security in arrests for failure to have insurance under the Georgia Motor Vehicle Accident Reparations Act.
When police officers have made arrest of any offender for failure to show proof of automobile insurance as required by the Georgia Motor Vehicle Accident Reparations Act, the officer may take a cash bond and security in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the offender's appearance before the municipal judge. The municipal judge shall proceed in the same manner as authorized under section 6-2 upon the failure of the offender to appear at the time appointed.
(Code 1972, § 6-209)
State Law reference— Georgia Motor Vehicle Accident Reparations Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.
Sec. 6-4. - Appearance before recorder; contempt of court.
In any case where any person is charged with any violation of the provisions of this Code or other ordinance and has been given a copy of charges requiring such person to appear before the municipal judge, at a specified time and place, it shall be such person's duty to appear as specified. Any person failing to appear at the time and place set out in such charges or citations shall be guilty of contempt of court and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished for same.
(Code 1972, § 6-204)
Sec. 6-5. - Attendance of witnesses.
The attendance of witnesses may be enforced by subpoena under the same rules as in superior court, and any witness who shall fail to attend the municipal court after having been legally subpoenaed or who shall refuse to testify shall be punished as for contempt of court.
(Code 1972, § 6-206)
Sec. 6-6. - Collection of fines.
When a fine has been imposed by the municipal judge, the offender shall be held in the city jail until it has been paid or a satisfactory manner agreed upon by which it can be collected.
(Code 1972, § 6-207)
Editor's note— A schedule of fines for violation of city ordinances was adopted by an ordinance of April 4, 1977. That ordinance is not included in this Code, but copies are maintained on file in the police department and in the office of the city clerk, where they are available for public inspection. Ord. No. 91-2, § 1, adopted Jan. 7, 1991, increased the fines by 15%.
Sec. 6-7. - Court costs.
Court costs shall be determined under the provisions of section 4.13 of the City Charter. All court fines shall have added a surcharge of eight (8) percent to be paid into a special jail fund to be used to defray the costs to the city which are associated with the incarceration of municipal prisoners.
(Code 1972, § 6-208; Ord. No. 2016-017 , § 1, 7-18-16; Ord. No. 2017-030 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-4-17)
Sec. 6-8. - Appeal.
In any case where a person is convicted of a violation of the provision of this Code or other ordinance and is not satisfied with the decision, such person may appeal under the provisions of section 4.14 of the city charter.
(Code 1972, § 6-205)
Sec. 6-9. - Appointment of chief judge and stand-by judge of municipal court.
(a)
The council shall appoint by resolution a person the council considers qualified to serve as chief judge, who shall preside over the municipal court of the city. Such appointment shall become effective immediately; and the appointee shall serve until he resigns, is replaced, or otherwise becomes unable to serve.
(b)
In the event the presiding judge of the municipal court of the city is unable at any time to serve in his official capacity, the council shall appoint by resolution such other person the council considers qualified to replace such judge; and as a precaution against a possible interim vacancy in the judgeship of the court, the council shall provide by resolution a standby judge, which person shall be immediately empowered to act as judge of the court at the notification of the council and continue until further resolution by the council. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the council in its discretion may appoint one of more other judges to preside over all or certain kinds of cases in the interest of efficient operation of the court. Any such appointment shall serve until he or she resigns, is replaced, otherwise becomes unable to serve, or in the event the council decides that such judgeship is no longer needed.
(Ord. No. 88-7, 2-15-88; Ord. No. 2009-060, § 1, 12-7-09)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 88-7, adopted Feb. 15, 1988, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion as § 6-9 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 6-10. - City solicitor for municipal court.
(a)
There shall be one or more city solicitors for the municipal court of the city, who shall be the prosecuting attorneys for the city for all cases in the municipal court for the city. If there are multiple solicitors, the council shall have the discretion in its appointment to specify the types of cases which will be prosecuted by the appointed solicitor, or it may make a general appointment in which the appointed solicitor may prosecute all kinds of cases within the jurisdiction of the municipal court.
(b)
In order to be qualified for the position of city solicitor, such a person shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of age and shall have been admitted to practice law within the state prior to appointment to solicitor.
(c)
The council shall appoint by resolution one or more persons duly qualified to serve as city solicitors. Such appointment shall become effective immediately; and the appointee shall serve until he resigns, is replaced, otherwise becomes unable to serve, or the council decides such position is no longer needed.
(d)
Compensation for the city solicitor shall be from city funds as provided by the council by resolution.
(e)
The city solicitor shall be a part-time solicitor and may engage in the private practice of law but may not practice in his own court or appear in any matter as to which that solicitor has exercised jurisdiction.
(f)
In the event of a vacancy in the office of city solicitor, the council shall appoint a qualified person to fill the vacancy. This person shall continue to serve until he resigns, is replaced, otherwise becomes unable to serve, or the council decides such position is no longer needed.
(Ord. No. 88-15, 7-5-88; Ord. No. 2009-060, § 1, 12-7-09)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 88-15, adopted July 5, 1988, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion as § 6-10 was at the discretion of the editor.
