PART I - CHARTER[1]
ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION; CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1.10. - Incorporation.
The City of Lake Park, Georgia, in the County of Lowndes, and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the same name and style of the City of Lake Park, Georgia. Under that name, said city shall continue to be vested with all of the property and rights of property which now belong to the corporation; shall have perpetual succession; may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with, may acquire and hold such property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell, or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at will; and may exercise in conformity with this charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
Sec. 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of the City of Lake Park shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The current boundaries of the City of Lake Park, at all times, shall be shown on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Map (or Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Lake Park, Georgia". Alterations in these boundaries shall be indicated by and under the direction of the mayor. Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the clerk shall be admitted in evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
Editor's note— The annexation ordinances of the city are not included in the Charter or Code; they remain on file in the office of the city clerk.
State Law reference— Methods and procedure for annexation, OCGA § 36-36-1 et seq.
Sec. 1.12. - Powers defined.
(a)
The government of the City of Lake Park shall have all rights, powers, privileges and authority herein conferred or herein enlarged, and such other powers as may be necessary or desirable including all rights, powers, privileges and authority whether expressed or implied that may now or hereafter be granted to municipal corporations by the constitution of Georgia and laws of this state.
(b)
The rights, powers, privileges and authority heretofore enjoyed, herein retained or herein claimed shall subsist, notwithstanding the repeal of any law, until any such rights, power, privilege or authority be altered or taken away by amendment to this charter.
(c)
The city in addition to the rights, powers, privileges and authority expressly conferred upon it by this charter, shall have the right, power, privilege and authority to exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of said government and its inhabitants, and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein and to do and perform all of the acts pertaining to its local affairs, property and government, which are necessary or proper in the legitimate exercise of its corporate powers and governmental functions.
(d)
No enumeration of any right, power, privilege or authority hereinafter made, and no repeal of any law under which the government derives any rights, power, privilege or authority, shall be construed as limiting or abolishing any right, power, privilege or authority hereinabove set forth.
Sec. 1.13. - General powers.
In addition to all other powers herein granted, the city shall be vested with any and all powers which municipal corporations are or may hereafter be authorized or required to exercise under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, as fully and completely as though such powers were specifically enumerated herein; and any and all powers which the city was heretofore authorized to exercise upon the effective date of this charter.
State Law reference— General powers of municipalities, Ga. Constitution, Art. IX, § II, ¶ 1 et seq.; OCGA § 36-34-1 et seq.
Sec. 1.14. - Construction.
The powers of the city shall be construed liberally and in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the city as stated in this charter. It is the intention hereof to grant the city full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the city and all of its affairs.
Sec. 1.15. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision, such powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance of the governing authority and as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.16. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter, are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the governing authority.
Cross reference— See also § 8.11.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNING BODY
DIVISION 1. - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

Sec. 2.10. - Creation; composition; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of the City of Lake Park, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and four councilmen. The mayor and councilmen shall be elected in the manner provided by Article V of this charter.
Sec. 2.11. - Terms and qualifications of office.
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of Section 5.10, the members of the council shall serve for terms of two years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or councilman unless the person shall have been a resident of the city for a period of one year immediately prior to the date of such official's election, shall continue to reside therein while holding office, and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of the City of Lake Park.
(H.B. 913, § 1, 3-22-1989)
Sec. 2.12. - Vacancy; forfeiture of office; filling of vacancies.
(a)
Vacancies: The office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
Forfeiture of office: The mayor or any councilman shall forfeit his office if he: (1) lacks at any time during his term of office any qualifications of the office as prescribed by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia; (2) willfully and knowingly violates any express prohibition of this charter; or (3) is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
(c)
Filling of vacancies: A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilman shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in Article V.
Sec. 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and councilmen shall receive as compensation for their services the amount established by ordinance. The mayor and councilmen shall be entitled to receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
Editor's note— The dollar amount previously incorporated in § 2.13 has been deleted by the editor as superseded by OCGA § 36-35-4.
Sec. 2.14. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Holding other office: Except as authorized by law, no member of the council shall hold any other elective city office or city employment during the term for which he was elected.
(b)
Voting when personally interested: Neither the mayor nor any other member of the council shall vote upon any question in which he is personally interested.
Sec. 2.15. - Inquiries and investigations.
The council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 2.16. - General power and authority of the council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or by this chapter, the council shall be vested with all the powers of government of the City of Lake Park as provided by Article I.
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, the constitution, and the laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient, or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity, or well-being of the inhabitants of the City of Lake Park and may enforce such ordinance by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(c)
The council may by ordinance create, change, alter, abolish, or consolidate offices, agencies and departments of the city and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies, and departments expressly provided for by this charter.
DIVISION 2. - THE MAYOR

Sec. 2.20. - Election of mayor; term of office; vacancy.
The mayor shall be elected at large and, except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of Section 5.10, the term of office of the mayor shall be two years.
(H.B. 913, § 2, 3-22-1989)
Sec. 2.21. - Duties of mayor.
The mayor shall:
(a)
Preside at all meetings of the city council; and may vote on any question on which the council is equally divided,
(b)
Be the official head of the city for the service of process and for ceremonial purposes,
(c)
Have power to administer oaths and to take affidavits,
(d)
Sign all written contracts entered into by the council on behalf of the city and all other contracts and instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing.
DIVISION 3. - ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 2.30. - Oath of office; mayor pro tem.
Before entering upon the duties of office following their election, the mayor and each councilman shall take the following oath which shall be administered by the city clerk:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will well and truly perform the duties of (Mayor or councilman as the case may be) of the City and that I will support and defend the Charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
Following the induction of members, the council by majority vote of all the members thereof shall elect one of their number to be mayor pro tem, who shall serve for a term of two years and until a successor is elected and qualified.
(H.B. 913, § 3, 3-22-1989)
Sec. 2.31. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance. The council may recess any regular meeting and continue such meetings on any weekday or hour it may fix, and may transact any business at such continued meeting as may be transacted at any regular meeting.
(b)
Special meetings of the council may be held on call of the mayor or two members of the council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, or shall be left at their residence at least 12 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called. Notice of any special meeting may be waived in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice of any special meeting. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members present. With such consent any business which may be transacted in a regular meeting may be conducted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the council shall be public.
State Law reference— All meetings of governing bodies to be public, private executive sessions, penalty, OCGA § 36-80-1; conduct of meetings of state and local departments, agencies, boards, etc., OCGA § 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 2.32. - Rules of procedure.
The council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
Sec. 2.33. - Quorum; voting.
Three councilmen shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances, shall be taken by voice vote and the "ayes" and "nays" shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll call vote. The affirmative vote of a majority of the councilmen shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this charter.
Sec. 2.34. - Action requiring an ordinance.
(a)
Except as herein provided, every official action of the council which is to become law, shall be by ordinance. Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Lake Park hereby ordains...".
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any member of the council and read at a regular or special meeting of the council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, ordinances, except emergency ordinances, shall not be adopted until the next regular meeting of the council following the meeting of their initial introduction. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall distribute a copy to the mayor and to each councilman, and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the council may designate.
Sec. 2.35. - Emergency ordinances.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances, but such ordinances may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorize the borrowing of money except as provided by law. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner prescribed for ordinances generally except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three councilmen shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 30 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Sec. 2.36. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that (1) the requirements of section 2.34 for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and (2) a copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to section 2.37.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Sec. 2.37. - Signing, authenticating, recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for the purpose of all ordinances adopted by the council. Every ordinance shall be signed by the mayor as a matter of course after adoption.
(b)
The Council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto, with this charter and any amendment thereto, and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Lake Park, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city, and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the council.
(c)
The council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the council. Following publication of the first Code of the City of Lake Park and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the Code.
ARTICLE III. - EXECUTIVE BRANCH
DIVISION 1. - ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
The council, by ordinance, may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city, as it shall deem necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city. The council shall prescribe the functions and duties of existing departments, offices, and agencies or of any departments, offices and agencies hereinafter created or established; may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the function or duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city.
(b)
The operations and responsibilities of each department now or hereafter established in the city shall be distributed among such divisions or bureaus as may be provided by ordinance of the council. Each department shall consist of such officers, employees, and positions as may be provided by this charter or by ordinance, and shall be subject to the general supervision and guidance of the mayor and council.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority. Vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner as prescribed by this charter for an original appointment.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(e)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance of the city council.
Sec. 3.11. - Boards, commissions and authorities.
(a)
All members of boards, commissions and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the council for such terms of office and such manner of appointment as provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or by applicable state law.
(b)
No member of any board, commission or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(c)
Any vacancy in office of any member of a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or any applicable state law.
(d)
No member of any board, commission or authority shall assume office until he shall have executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance of the council and administered by the mayor.
(e)
Any member of a board, commission or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of three members of the council.
(f)
Members of boards, commissions and authorities may receive such compensation and expenses in the performance of their official duties as prescribed by ordinance.
(g)
The qualifications required of members of boards, commissions, and authorities shall be as prescribed by ordinance.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by applicable state law, each board, commission or authority of the city government shall elect one of its members as chairman and one member as vice-chairman for terms of one year and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such by-laws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or applicable state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS

Sec. 3.20. - City clerk.
The council may appoint a city clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings of the city council and to maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the city, and to perform such other duties as may be required by law or as the council may direct.
Sec. 3.21. - Tax collector.
The council may appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes, licenses, fees and other monies belonging to the city subject to the provisions of this charter and the ordinances of the city, and the tax collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all general laws of Georgia relating to the collection, sale, or foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
Sec. 3.22. - City accountant.
The council may appoint a city accountant to perform the duties of an accountant.
Sec. 3.23. - City attorney.
The council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as city attorney.
Sec. 3.24. - Consolidation of functions.
The council may consolidate any two or more of the positions of city clerk, city tax collector, and city accountant, or any other positions or may assign the functions of any one or more of such positions. The city council may perform all or any part of the functions of any of the positions or offices in lieu of appointing other persons to perform the same.
DIVISION 3. - PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3.30. - Position classification and pay plans.
The mayor shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the council for approval. Said plans may apply to all employees of the City of Lake Park, and of any of its agencies and offices. When a pay plan has been adopted the council shall not increase or decrease the salaries of individual employees except by amendment of said pay plan.
Sec. 3.31. - Personnel policies.
The council shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning: (1) the method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment; (2) the administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan; (3) hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected; and (4) such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of the personnel affairs of the City of Lake Park.
State Law reference— Authority to provide retirement, etc., benefits, OCGA § 36-34-2.
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH—MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 4.10. - Creation; jurisdiction generally; presiding officer.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the municipal court of the City of Lake Park which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city and punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power and authority to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court, to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the city constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof. Said court shall be presided over by the judge of said court. In the absence or disqualification of the judge, the judge pro tem shall preside and shall exercise the same powers and duties as the judge when so acting. Should both the judge and judge pro tem become disqualified, then any member of the council may be designated to preside with the same powers and duties as the judge when so acting.
State Law reference— Appointment of judges of municipal courts, OCGA § 36-32-2.
Sec. 4.11. - Judge.
(a)
Judicial appointment and qualifications:
The judge of the municipal court shall be appointed by and shall serve at the pleasure of the city council. No person shall be so appointed unless he is a resident of the judicial circuit in which the court is located, is duly licensed as an attorney or appointed as a judge and has been actively engaged in the practice of law (either as a licensed attorney or as a judge) for at least five years preceding his appointment.
(b)
Before entering on duties of his office, the judge shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state, that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the council.
State Law reference— Appointment of judges of municipal courts, OCGA § 36-32-2.
Sec. 4.12. - Convening.
Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof.
Sec. 4.13. - Jurisdiction specifically; powers; forfeiture of bond.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish for crimes against the City of Lake Park and for violation of its ordinances. The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt. The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 6 months or both.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(c)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations before said court, and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time, and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the City of Lake Park, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(d)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
(e)
The municipal court shall have the authority to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary and proper to the conduct of said court.
(f)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoenas and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by state law.
(g)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of the City of Lake Park granted by state laws generally to the mayor's, recorder's and police courts, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances.
State Law reference— Powers of courts generally, OCGA § 15-1-3; power of judges of municipal courts, OCGA § 36-32-3; authority of municipal corporations to provide for forfeiture of appearance bonds, OCGA § 36-32-4; sentences and fines which may be imposed by municipal courts, OCGA § 36-32-5; authorization and procedure for abatement of nuisances in cities, OCGA § 41-2-5.
Sec. 4.14. - Appeal.
The right of appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs on appeal to the superior court of Lowndes County from the mayor's court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the probate and magistrate courts. Provided that any person who fails to file his appeal within thirty (30) days of the date of his conviction shall be deemed to have waived any such right. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
State Law reference— Certiorari to superior court, OCGA § 5-4-3.
Sec. 4.15. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the council may adopt in part or in total the rules and regulations relative to the procedure of the operation of the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for said court shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
Sec. 4.16. - Technology surcharge.
There shall be imposed by the Lake Park Municipal Court a technology surcharge in the amount of $10.00 per offense, for all offenses except OCGA §§ 40-8-76 and 40-8-76.1, said technology surcharge to be in addition to all other fines and fees imposed by the Lake Park Municipal Court. Such fee shall be used exclusively to provide for the following technological needs of the court and city law enforcement functions: the purchase, lease, maintenance, and installation of computer hardware and software; and the purchase, lease, maintenance, and installation of equipment and software used for imaging, scanning, facsimile, communications, projections, and printing. All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be maintained in a segregated account by the clerk of the court, separate from other funds of the city, and shall be expended only for authorized purposes upon approval by the city council.
(Ord. No. 106, § I, 3-4-2014)
Sec. 4.17. - Crime lab surcharge.
There shall be imposed by the Lake Park Municipal Court a crime lab surcharge in the amount of $5.00 per offense, for all offenses except OCGA §§ 40-8-76 and 40-8-76.1, said crime lab surcharge to be in addition to all other fines and fees imposed by the Lake Park Municipal Court. Such fee shall be used exclusively to pay costs and charges to the city to participate in and to utilize the Valdosta—Lowndes County Regional Crime Lab. All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be maintained in a segregated account by the clerk of the court, separate from other funds of the city, and shall be expended only for authorized purposes upon approval by the city council.
(Ord. No. 107, § I, 3-4-2014)
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS
DIVISION 1. - REPRESENTATION—GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 5.10. - Regular elections; terms.
(a)
The mayor and councilmen in office on the effective date of this section shall continue to serve until their successors are elected and qualified as provided in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
There shall be an election on the first Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2015, to elect the mayor and four councilmen who shall take office on January 1, 2016.
(1)
The mayor and the two councilmen who receive the highest vote tally during said election shall serve terms of office expiring on December 31, 2018, and until a successor is elected and qualified. Their successors and future successors shall be elected in the same manner on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November immediately preceding the expiration of terms of office and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election for terms of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(2)
The two councilmen who receive the third and fourth highest vote tally during said election shall serve terms of office expiring on December 31, 2017, and until a successor is elected and qualified. Their successors and future successors shall be elected in the same manner on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November immediately preceding the expiration of terms of office and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election for terms of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(3)
In the event that two or more candidates for councilman receive an equal number of votes in the election prescribed by this subsection, the tying candidates shall draw lots to decide who will serve a term of two years under paragraph (1) of this subsection and who will serve a term of one year under paragraph (2) of this subsection. In the event that two or more candidates for councilman tie for the fourth position for councilman, those candidates shall draw lots to decide who will hold the fourth position for councilman.
(H.B. 913, § 4, 3-22-1989; Act. No. 603 (H.B. 1317), § 1, 2-18-1992; Act. No. 152 (H.B. 371), § 1, 5-6-2015)
Editor's note— Act. No. 152 (H.B. 371), § 1, approved May 6, 2015, set out provisions amending section 5.11(b). To correct a scrivener's error, and at the editor's discretion, said provisions have been included herein as amending section 5.10(b).
Sec. 5.11. - Reserved.
Editor's note— H.B. 913, § 4, approved March 22, 1989, repealed § 5.11, which pertained to qualifying; nomination of candidates; absentee ballots, and derived from the original codification.
DIVISION 2. - CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS

Sec. 5.20. - Applicability of general laws.
The procedures and requirements for election of all elected officials of the City of Lake Park as to primary, special or general elections shall be in conformity with the provisions of the Georgia Election Code, OCGA Title 21, Chapter 2, as amended.
Editor's note— The editor has substituted the correct citation of current state law in place of Title 34A of the Ga. Code Ann.
State Law reference— Use of county or municipal registration system, OCGA § 21-3-123.
Sec. 5.21. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the remaining portion of the unexpired term of such office; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within six months of the expiration of the term of office of the mayor or any councilman, said vacancy in office shall be filled by appointment by the remaining members of the council. Both special elections and qualifications of candidates therefor shall conform to the applicable provisions of this charter and the Georgia Election Code, OCGA, Title 21, Chapter 2 as amended.
Editor's note— The editor has substituted the current state law citation in place of Ga. Code Ann. Title 34A.
DIVISION 3. - REMOVAL OF ELECTIVE OFFICERS

Sec. 5.30. - Grounds for removal.
The mayor or any councilman shall be subject to removal from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(a)
Incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(b)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(c)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this charter or by law;
(d)
Willful violation of any express prohibition of this charter;
(e)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(f)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this charter or by law.
Sec. 5.31. - Procedure for removal.
Removal of an elected officer from office may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(a)
By action of two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the council. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the council to the superior court of Lowndes County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(b)
By information filed in the superior court of Lowndes County as provided by law.
Editor's note— The editor has substituted "probate court" for "court of ordinary."
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE AND FISCAL[2]
DIVISION 1. - TAXATION; SERVICE CHARGES; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS

Sec. 6.10. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January first in each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the City of Lake Park. The council by ordinance shall elect to use the county assessment for the year in which the city taxes are to be levied and shall request the county to furnish appropriate information for such purpose.
Sec. 6.11. - Tax levy.
The council shall make an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property, not exempt from taxation, within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for any other public purpose as determined by the council in its discretion. The tax levy shall be expressed as a fixed millage rate of assessed valuation. The council is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations.
Editor's note— Ga. Code Ann., §§ 92-4101—92-4104 have been repealed; therefore, reference to those section has been deleted by the editor.
Sec. 6.12. - Tax due dates and tax bills.
The council shall provide by ordinance the procedure for the issuance of tax bills, the date when the taxes of the city shall fall due and the period of time during which taxes may be paid. The council shall provide by ordinance for the payment of taxes due to the city in installments, or in one lump sum, and may authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Sec. 6.13. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by any officer authorized by ordinance to execute such fi. fas. under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property upon which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment date of each year, which lien shall be superior to all other liens, except that it shall have equal dignity with those of federal, state or county taxes. In cases of hardship, the council shall have discretionary authority to waive any and all penalties imposed by this charter on delinquent taxes, fees, assessments, or on other amounts due to the city.
Sec. 6.14. - Licenses, occupational taxes, excise taxes.
The council by ordinance shall have full power to levy such license and specific or occupation taxes upon the residents of the City of Lake Park, both individual and corporate, and on all those who transact or offer to transact business therein, or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience or advantage of the city; to classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure licenses; to compel the payment of such licenses by execution or any other lawful manner; and to make laws and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof. The council shall have full power and authority to levy an excise tax not prohibited by general law.
Cross reference— See also § 7.20 et seq.
Sec. 6.15. - Sewer service charges.
The council by ordinance shall have the right, power and authority to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer services rendered both within and without the corporate limits of the City of Lake Park, to provide for the cost and expense of providing for the collection and disposal of sewage through a sewerage facility of said city. If unpaid, said sewer service charge shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
Cross reference— See also § 7.11 et seq.
Sec. 6.16. - Sanitary and health services charge.
The council shall have authority by ordinance to provide for, to enforce, to levy and to collect the cost of sanitary and health services necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms and corporations, residing in or doing business in said city benefiting from such service. Such authority shall include the power to assess, levy and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount or amounts, and based upon and in accordance with such classification of property and sanitary service or services provided, as may be fixed by ordinance. Said sanitary taxes and the assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect to which said taxes are so assessed, and the owner or owners thereof, and shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
Cross reference— See also § 7.11 et seq.
Sec. 6.17. - Special assessments.
The council shall have power and authority to assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent 30 days after their due dates, shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of ten percent and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent per annum from date due until paid. A lien shall exist against the abutting property of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided for in this article for city property taxes.
Cross reference— See also § 7.10 et seq.
Sec. 6.18. - Transfer of executions.
The city clerk shall be authorized to assign or transfer any fi. fa. or execution issued for any tax or for any street, sewer, or other assessment in the same manner and to the same extent as provided by Georgia law regarding sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Such transfer or assignment, when made, shall vest the purchaser or transferee with all right, title and interest as provided by Georgia law governing sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Provided that, upon levy of execution and sale of property pursuant to such tax fi. fa., whether assigned, transferred, or executed by the city, the owner of such property, in fee simple or lesser interest, shall not lose his right to redeem the property in accord with the requirements of redemption of property sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fas., as said requirements now exist or as may be hereafter provided by law.
DIVISION 2. - BORROWING

Sec. 6.20. - General obligation bonds.
The council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
State Law reference— Bonds required on contracts for public works, OCGA § 13-10-1; financing of facilities and services, OCGA § 36-34-6; street improvements, OCGA § 36-39-1 et seq.; power to issue notes, certificates and other evidence of indebtedness in anticipation of taxes, OCGA § 36-80-2; bonds generally, OCGA § 36-82-1 et seq.
Sec. 6.21. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the council as provided by an Act known as the "Revenue Bond Law," approved March 31, 1937, (Ga. L. 1937, § 761), as amended, or by any other Georgia law as now or hereafter provided.
State Law reference— Such law codified as OCGA § 36-82-60 et seq.
Sec. 6.22. - Short term notes.
Pursuant to applicable state law the city may obtain temporary loans between January first and December 31st of each year, subject to the short term debt limitations as set forth in Ga. Constit. Art. 9, § 5, Par. V.
DIVISION 3. - PROCUREMENT AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 6.30. - Contracting procedures.
All contracts shall be made or authorized by the council, and no contracts shall bind the city unless reduced to writing and approved by the council. All contracts, and all ordinances or resolutions making contracts or authorizing the same, shall be drawn by the city attorney or shall be submitted to him before authorization by the council.
Sec. 6.31. - Sale and conveyance of land.
(a)
The council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the City of Lake Park for governmental or other purposes, at a public or private sale, with or without advertisement, for such consideration as it shall deem equitable and just for the city, in accordance with Chapter 37 of Title 36 of the Code of Georgia, as amended.
(b)
The council may quit claim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
ARTICLE VII. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
DIVISION 1. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES

Sec. 7.10. - Streets.
The council is hereby vested with the power to layout, open, widen, change, straighten, alter, improve, vacate, abandon, and otherwise to exercise complete control over the streets, alleys, squares and sidewalks of the City of Lake Park. The council shall provide for the removal of any and all obstacles and nuisances in regard to the streets, alleys or sidewalks or other public places within the city and shall adopt appropriate ordinances to accomplish this purpose.
Sec. 7.11. - Municipal utilities.
The council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, build, maintain and operate a system of waterworks, electric lights, sewerage and gas distribution; to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered in any of said systems; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of Georgia; to exercise the power of eminent domain in regard to any of said systems, both within and without the corporate limits; and to contract to furnish the services of any of said systems to consumers outside the corporate limits of the City of Lake Park.
Cross reference— See also § 6.15 as to sewer service charges, and 6.16 as to sanitary and health service charges; see § 6.17 as to special assessments.
Sec. 7.12. - Sewers and drains.
The council shall have the power and authority to provide for the establishment, extension, and maintenance of a system of sewers and drains, together with a sewerage disposal system. This power includes the authority to extend said system beyond the corporate limits. For these purposes the city is granted the power of eminent domain both within and without its corporate limits. The council may provide by ordinance for reasonable connection fees for tapping on to the water and sewer lines of said city, and, subject to applicable state law, may compel citizens to tap into the sewer lines when such service is made available. It may cause said connection to be made when the owners refuse, and issue executions to be made for the amount so expended, which execution shall create a lien on the property connected with said water and sewerage systems from the date of the order or connection.
Sec. 7.13. - Right-of-way.
The City of Lake Park shall have the right, easement and franchise of laying the necessary mains, pipes, conduits and drains, for waterworks and sewerage system purposes along the highways in the County of Lowndes without cost; it shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules, regulations and ordinances as may be necessary to protect the water basin and watershed, from which the water supply is taken, from contamination and to protect said waterworks and sewerage system, including the mains, pipes, and conduits whether the same be situated within or without the corporate limits of said city.
Sec. 7.14. - Eminent domain.
The council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, build, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, water-works, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under OCGA Title 22 subject to such amendments as shall be enacted, or any other applicable Georgia law.
Editor's note— The editor has substituted the current state law citation in place of Ga. Code Ann. § 36-202.
State Law reference— Acquisition and construction of water and sewage systems, OCGA § 36-34-5.
DIVISION 2. - REGULATORY FUNCTIONS

Sec. 7.20. - Power to regulate and license.
The council shall have the power and authority to provide by ordinance for the registration and licensing of any trade, business, occupation, vocation, profession or any and every other undertaking pursued for the purpose of personal gain or profit of whatever nature, engaged in or carried on within the limits of the City of Lake Park, regardless whether or not the subject has an office of establishment within said city. The council shall be authorized to fix the amount, terms, and manner of issuing and revoking licenses, provided that this authority is subject to the constitutions and laws of the United States and the State of Georgia. This power is conferred for the purpose of regulation under the police powers of the city and for the purpose of raising revenue for the operation of the city government through the imposition of a tax or fee on the privilege of operating within the city. This authority extends over individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations, and their agents, and any other legal entity capable of transacting business.
Cross reference— See also § 6.14.
Sec. 7.21. - Franchises.
The council shall have authority to exercise control over the use of streets of the City of Lake Park. The power is hereby conferred upon the council to grant franchises for the use of said city's streets and alleys, for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, cable, satellite and telecommunications companies, electric companies, gas companies, and transportation companies. This franchise right extends to, but is not limited to, the erection of poles, stringing of wires, laying of pipes, lines or conduits both above and below the ground surface. The council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration of such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 25 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in the registration book to be kept by him. The council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 7.22. - Building, housing, electrical, and plumbing regulations.
The council shall have the power and authority to enact such reasonable rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or expedient regarding the construction and maintenance of buildings, remodeling of buildings, plumbing, and electrical wiring and equipping of buildings, in order to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens and to guard against fire or other property damage. This power may, in the discretion of the council, be exercised by adoption of any such standard building, housing, gas, heating and air-conditioning, electrical, and plumbing codes as may be deemed appropriate. The council shall be empowered to engage the necessary personnel to enforce such rules and regulations as adopted, and to charge reasonable fees of inspections and permits; and may require the obtaining of a permit as a condition precedent to any construction, building, electrical or plumbing work. The council may enact all ordinances necessary to enforce such rules and regulations. The provisions of this section shall not be construed to authorize the establishment of standards for, or the regulation of the electrical wiring and equipment by or for a utility rendering communication services and required by it to be utilized in the rendition of its duly authorized service to the public.
Cross reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, § 2.36.
ARTICLE VIII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 8.10. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of the City of Lake Park, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council may from time to time require.
Sec. 8.11. - Existing ordinances and regulations.
Existing ordinances and resolutions of the City of Lake Park not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified, or amended by the council. Existing rules and regulations of departments or agencies of the City of Lake Park not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified, or amended.
Cross reference— See also § 1.16.
Sec. 8.12. - Specific repealer.
An act incorporating the City of Lake Park in the County of Lowndes, approved December 24, 1897 (Ga. L. 1897, p. 250) and an act amending an act incorporating the City of Lake Park, approved August 15, 1904 (Ga. L. 1904, p. 488) are hereby repealed in their entirety.
Sec. 8.13. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part or parts held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Sec. 8.14. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
