ARTICLE IV. - SIDEWALKS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 50-100. - Placement of obstruction.
Except as provided for outdoor dining for restaurants, no person shall be allowed or permitted to obstruct any sidewalk in this city by putting any box, table, steps, merchandise or any other thing thereon at a greater distance from the inside wall than two and one-half feet, except by special permission from the mayor and city council.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-4; Code 2002, § 50-36; Ord. No. 2015-13, § 1, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 50-101. - Permit for outdoor dining on sidewalk.
The owner of a currently licensed restaurant, with no open violations, within the City of Canton may utilize public sidewalk rights of way for outdoor dining for restaurant sales only after obtaining a permit. Outdoor dining on private property within these districts is also allowed subject to compliance with these regulations except as noted herein.
(Ord. No. 2015-13, § 1, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 50-102. - Application requirements; criteria for granting of permit.
The application for a permit to utilize the public sidewalk for outdoor dining shall include the following:
(1)
A drawing of the proposed sidewalk utilization identifying placement of all tables, chairs and any other item to be placed on the sidewalk must accompany the application. The outdoor dining seating area must adhere to International Fire Codes and must not interfere with the circulation of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the adjoining streets or on the sidewalk. The outdoor dining seating area shall leave open an unobstructed area of the sidewalk for pedestrian travel, with a minimum width of three feet or the minimum distance specified by ADA for pedestrian traffic, whichever is greater. The unobstructed pedestrian area shall be located between the outdoor dining area and the curb or nearest obstacle. There shall be a divider between the seating area and the pedestrian area of the sidewalk, and the outdoor dining seating area shall be completely enclosed by the divider. The application shall include a statement as to the type of divider to be utilized.
(Ord. No. 2015-13, § 1, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 50-103. - Regulations of use of sidewalk for outdoor dining.
(a)
All kitchen equipment and refuse containers used to service the sidewalk cafe shall be located inside the primary restaurant. The restaurant owner/operator shall be responsible for maintaining the sidewalk café in a clean, neat, orderly and safe condition. No plastic chairs or tables may be used. All materials must be made from sturdy materials, like metal or wood. All debris and litter shall be removed daily. Private trash containers in the sidewalk café dining area are prohibited. Public sidewalk trash containers shall not be used as a means of disposing of table waste generated by restaurant consumers.
(b)
The hours of operation for the sidewalk café shall be no greater than that of the principal restaurant and may be less as determined in the review process.
(c)
The applicant must acknowledge by signature his awareness that food and alcoholic beverages may be sold outdoors only under the provisions of the permit granted under this article, and only within the arrangement as defined and under the following conditions:
(1)
Sales shall occur only within an area of the zoned premises approved by the City of Canton and that limits access to the outdoor dining area.
(2)
Approved signage must be displayed within said area to advise patrons that alcoholic beverages cannot be removed from the outdoor dining area under any circumstances.
(3)
Any alcohol sold by the permitee cannot be served in bottles, cans, plastic cups, or any other disposable containers, but only in approved glass containers, except during special events as approved by the Main Street director.
(d)
The use of the space by the permitee must conform to the drawing which was approved as part of the application process.
(e)
All tables and furniture shall be kept in good state of repair and maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition and in accordance with Cherokee County Health Department Regulations.
(f)
The use of umbrellas must be approved by the fire marshall and satisfy all fire codes. Umbrellas may not contain any writing. In the Historic Downtown Canton, as defined in section 6-211(4), umbrellas may only be black, burgundy, or off-white, and the color shall be approved by the Main Street director.
(g)
Smoking shall not be permitted in the outdoor dining area.
(Ord. No. 2015-13, § 1, 8-20-2015)
Sec. 50-104. - Indemnification of the city.
(a)
As a condition of issuance, the approved applicant and any person acting under or pursuant to said approval, agrees to indemnify, hold harmless, release and defend (even if the allegations are false, fraudulent, or groundless) to the maximum extent allowed by law, the city manager, Main Street director, the City of Canton, its city council, and each member thereof, and its officers, employees, advisory board members and representatives, from and against any and all liability, loss, suits, claims, damages, costs, judgments and expenses (including attorney's fees and costs of litigation) which in whole or in part result from, arise out of, or are claimed to result from or to arise out of any acts, negligence, errors, or omissions of approved applicant, its employees, representatives, contractors, subcontractors, or agents by reason of or arising out of, or in any matter connected with, any and all acts, operations, privileges authorized, allowed or undertaken pursuant to the use approval under their ordinance including, without limitation, any condition or property used in operations.
(b)
This agreement of indemnity includes, but is not limited to, personal injury, (including death at any time) and property or other damage sustained by any person or persons (including, but not limited to, companies, corporations, approved applicant and its employees or agents, and members of the general public).
(c)
As a further condition of issuance of the approval, the approved applicant covenants not to sue the city manager or designee, city, its city council and each member thereof, and its employees, agents and representatives and shall cause its insurers to waive subrogation against the same with respect to any action, claim or demand in any way resulting from or connected with any or all undertakings and operations conducted pursuant to the use approval.
(Ord. No. 2015-13, § 1, 8-20-2015)
Secs. 50-105—50-128. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ASSESSMENT OF FEES

Sec. 50-129. - Purpose.
(a)
The various properties designated in and created by this division are adopted for the purpose, among others, to:
(1)
Promote the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and the general welfare of the city;
(2)
Lessen congestion in the streets;
(3)
Improve and protect the aesthetic appearance of the city;
(4)
Improve and protect the quality of life.
(b)
The various properties designated in and created by this division shall all be in accordance with the city comprehensive land use plan.
(Code 2002, § 50-66; Ord. of 11-2-2000(1))
Sec. 50-130. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-0421-09 , § 2, adopted April 21, 2022, repealed § 50-130, which pertained to designation of assessment districts and derived from Code 2002, § 50-67; and Ord. of 11-2-2000(1).
Sec. 50-131. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2022-0421-09 , § 2, adopted April 21, 2022, repealed § 50-131, which pertained to administration and derived from Code 2002, § 50-68; and Ord. of 11-2-2000(1).
Secs. 50-132—50-160. - Reserved.
