ARTICLE D. - ELECTRICAL

Sec. 8-2-31. - Electrical code adopted.
The National Electrical Code, the 2002 edition and any subsequent amendments, additions, or deletions thereto and future updated editions thereof, including any fee schedule included therein, as recommended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, together with local amendments, is hereby adopted as the minimum standard for the installation of all electrical wiring, devices and equipment in the city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this article, and the same is hereby made a part of this article as fully and to the same extent as if copied herein in full. A copy of the code is on file in the office of the city clerk. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the electrical code and the provisions of this Code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations, the provisions of this Code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations shall prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. No. 92-013, § 1, 3-16-92; Ord. No. 05-02, § 1, 1-3-2005)
Sec. 8-2-32. - Permit fees.
Before any permit for electrical work shall be issued under the provisions of this article, the applicant therefor shall pay the permit fees as shall be determined by the mayor and council from time to time.
Sec. 8-2-33. - Enforcement.
The mayor and council shall designate, by contract, a qualified person to serve as electrical inspector for the city. The electrical inspector shall keep records of all permits issued and inspections made in the city, shall make periodic reports to the building inspector and shall perform such other duties as directed from time to time by the city.
Editor's note— The county currently performs electrical inspections for the city.
Sec. 8-2-34. - Certain cable types prohibited.
Nonmetallic sheathed cable types NM and NMC shall not be permitted except for one-and two-family dwellings, multifamily dwellings, farm barns (not for use by the general public) and other structures of all wood interior construction located on occupied residential property. All other code requirements to conform.
Secs. 8-2-35—8-2-40. - Reserved.
