CHAPTER 4. - PERSONNEL
ARTICLE A. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 2-4-1. - Personnel regulations.
The personnel regulations of the city, adopted May 15, 1967, as now or hereafter amended, establishing comprehensive personnel policies for employees of the City of Forest Park, is hereby incorporated by reference herein. An up-to-date copy of the personnel regulations is maintained in the office of the city clerk for inspection by the public.
Sec. 2-4-2. - Official holidays for city employees.
(a)
The following days shall be observed as holidays for the city:
(1)
New Year's Day;
(2)
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day;
(3)
Memorial Day;
(4)
Independence Day;
(5)
Labor Day;
(6)
Thanksgiving Day;
(7)
The day following Thanksgiving;
(8)
Christmas Eve Day;
(9)
Christmas Day; and,
(10)
One personal holiday.
(b)
The granting of a personal holiday shall be subject to the approval of the employee's department head and only one (1) such holiday shall be granted in any calendar year.
(c)
Any officer or employee may, at the discretion of his immediate supervisor, be required to work on any of said holidays, and in that event, shall be entitled to an additional day of compensation, or, at the option of the supervisor, shall receive compensatory time off at a later date.
(Code 1986, § 2-4-2; Ord. No. 87-018, 11-2-87; Ord. No. 98-015, § 1, 10-5-98)
Sec. 2-4-3. - Drug free workplace policy; elimination of substance abuse; employee assistance.
The document entitled "City of Forest Park, Georgia Drug-Free Workplace Policies and Procedures for Elimination of Substance Abuse and Employee Assistance," which is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference, is hereby adopted to apply to all officers and employees of the City of Forest Park, Georgia. An up-to-date copy of the foregoing policy is maintained in the office of the city clerk for inspection by the public and all officers and employees of the city.
(Ord. No. 13-07, § 1, 3-18-2013)
Sec. 2-4-4. - Secret recording by city employees prohibited.
The document entitled "Policy Against Secret Recording," which is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference, is hereby adopted to apply to all officers and employees of the City of Forest Park, Georgia. An up-to-date copy of the foregoing policy is maintained in the office of the city clerk for inspection by the public and all officers and employees of the city.
(Ord. No. 13-08, § 1, 3-18-2013)
Secs. 2-4-5—2-4-10. - Reserved.
ARTICLE B. - SOCIAL SECURITY

Sec. 2-4-11. - Extended to city employees.
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend at the earliest date possible under the agreement entered into by the State of Georgia and the Federal Security Administration, to the employees and officials thereof, and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this article, the benefits of the System of Old Age and Survivors' Insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act, the state enabling act, and amendments thereto. In pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1959, § 2-80)
State Law reference— State enabling act, O.C.G.A., § 47-18-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-4-12. - Authority to execute agreements.
The mayor of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia for coverage of said employees and officials as provided for in section 2-4-11 hereof, to include any employees that are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner by said law provided.
(Code 1959, § 2-81)
Editor's note— Persons performing services to the city on a fee basis, such as the city attorney, are excluded from coverage under social security.
Sec. 2-4-13. - Withholdings from salaries or wages.
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in section 2-4-11 hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(Code 1959, § 2-82)
Sec. 2-4-14. - Contributions by city.
There shall be appropriated from the general funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses, and a guaranty fund to assure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in section 2-4-12 of this article. Such funds shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by said agency.
(Code 1959, § 2-83)
Sec. 2-4-15. - Records to be kept by city.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1959, § 2-84)
Sec. 2-4-16. - Exclusion of employees not authorized to be covered.
There is hereby excluded from this article any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position, or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1959, § 2-85)
Sec. 2-4-17. - Agreement with the Employees Retirement System of Georgia.
(a)
The mayor of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute an agreement amending the original plan and agreement with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, in substantially the form attached hereto as exhibit A, providing for the release of social security escrow deposits.
(b)
The City of Forest Park, hereinafter referred to as "the city," agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, hereinafter called the state agency, in regard to collections from city employees and in making reports and payments to the state agency.
(c)
The city hereby pledges an amount which it would receive in state grant funds as security for assurance that it will make collections from its employees, submit required reports, and remit payments to the state agency as agreed to in its plan of coverage of employees for social security benefits. The city further agrees that if the amount of state grant funds which it is entitled to receive in a calendar year is less than its annual payment to the state agency, as may be determined by the state agency, then the city shall deposit in escrow, when so notified in writing by the state agency and in accordance with its rules and regulations, an amount which, when added to the city's state grant funds, would total an amount sufficient to meet its obligations of reporting and remitting collections to the state agency.
(Code 1959, § 2-88)
Editor's note— Exhibit A, setting out the text of the agreement, is not included in this codification.
Secs. 2-4-18—2-4-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE C. - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— An employees' health and accident fund was adopted for the city by Resolution No. 83-163, 7-18-83. The city also adopted a death benefit fund by Resolution No. 83-160, 6-20-83.

Sec. 2-4-31. - City thrift and savings plan.
The provisions of the City of Forest Park thrift and savings plan as set forth in that agreement by and between the City of Forest Park, a governmental unit established under the laws of the State of Georgia, and Bank South, N.A. as trustee, executed by the parties on or about July 1, 1983, that set forth a City of Forest Park thrift and savings plan consisting of eleven (11) sections and containing provisions for definitions, participation and service, contributions, interest of participants, benefits, designation of beneficiary, administration, powers, duties and responsibilities of trustee, amendment of the plan, discontinuance of contributions and termination of the plan, together with that amendment to the City of Forest Park employees' retirement plan, executed and dated by the City of Forest Park, a governmental unit established under the laws of the State of Georgia and referred to therein as "employee" on July 1, 1983, the provisions of said agreement and amendment are set forth in their entirety and copies are available for inspection by the members of the general public, as well as the employees of the city on the bulletin board at the entry to the meeting area of city hall, where the mayor and council conduct their regular public meetings, as well as in the office of the city manager, where the same will be available for inspection and copying, and the provisions of both the agreement and the amendment are hereby referred to and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. No. 83-284, 11-21-84)
Sec. 2-4-32. - Life insurance benefits for city officials and employees.
(a)
There is hereby adopted and implemented a self insurance program to provide for life insurance benefits for officials and employees of the City of Forest Park, Georgia, to be payable to beneficiaries designated by said officials and employees, in the following amounts:
Mayor and members of city council: $150,000.00
City manager: $150,000.00
LRA executive director: $150,000.00
Department heads—Directors: $150,000.00
Deputy directors, colonels and majors: $40,000.00
Management analyst(s): $40,000.00
All other employees $20,000.00
(b)
This self insurance program is intended to be in lieu of the former death benefit fund established by Resolution No. 83-160, adopted July 18, 1983.
(c)
The benefits under this life insurance program are extended only to active officials and full time employees of the city during their terms of office or their full time employment with the city.
(Ord. No. 08-31, § 1, 7-7-2008)
