CHAPTER 4. - MOBILE HOMES, PORTABLE STRUCTURES AND TENTS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Requirements in flood hazard areas, § 8-6-9(3).

ARTICLE A. - MOBILE HOMES AND PORTABLE STRUCTURES

Sec. 8-4-1. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
(1)
Mobile home. A structure designed to be and used for human habitation that is capable of being moved from place to place on wheels attached to its own chassis, or on its own chassis transported by another vehicle or trailer. For the purpose of this chapter, the term "mobile home" shall also include a "recreational vehicle," self-propelled or otherwise, when such "recreational vehicle" is to be used for residential purposes within the city.
(2)
Portable structure. A structure that is capable of being moved from place to place on wheels attached to its own chassis, self-propelled or otherwise, or constructed on its own chassis or frame and transported by another vehicle or trailer to its permanent or temporary location and is to be used for, but not limited to, one (1) or more of the following purposes:
a.
As a temporary office by an individual, partnership or corporation (profit or nonprofit);
b.
As a "watchman's" station or construction site office, while construction is in progress;
c.
As a place of assembly or as a classroom;
d.
For storage and general utility use (residential or commercial); and/or
e.
For recreational purposes.
(3)
Tent. A temporary structure, enclosure or shelter, composed wholly or partly of canvas or similar material and supported by any manner except by air or the contents it protects.
(4)
Air-supported structure. A temporary structure, enclosure or shelter composed wholly or partially of canvas, vinyl, plastic or similar material, and supported by injected or forced air.
(Code 1959, § 21-1; Ord. No. 93-021, 10-4-93)
Sec. 8-4-2. - Temporary structures, tents and air-supported structures for public assemblies.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected any temporary structure composed wholly or partly of canvas, vinyl, plastic or similar material, to be used as a place of amusement or for any religious, educational, recreational or entertainment purpose, or for any other assemblages whatsoever, within the city without obtaining a permit from the planning and zoning administration. No such permit shall be granted unless the applicant shall have secured public liability insurance covering any person who may receive personal injury or suffer property damage while in said structure in such amounts to be determined by the governing body from time to time, but in no event shall the limits of liability be less than $10,000 for injuries to one (1) person and $20,000 for injuries to more than one (1) person, which are received in the same accident, and property damage of $5,000.
(b)
In addition to the requirements set forth in this section, the permit holder shall comply with all provisions of the building code and ordinances relating to temporary structures, tents and air-supported structures, as the case may be.
(c)
Any person, firm or corporation licensed to engage in the sale, lease or rental of air-supported structures shall be permitted to erect same for the limited purpose of cleaning it for a period not to exceed six (6) hours, provided that said structure is inflated for cleaning purposes within seven (7) days immediately following the expiration date of the permit issued pursuant to section 8-4-2(a) of this Code.
(d)
Any person, firm or corporation licensed to engage in the sale, lease or rental of air-supported structures shall be permitted to inflate same for the limited purpose of inspection, routine repair and maintenance one (1) day within each calendar month.
(Code 1959, § 21-2; Ord. No. 93-021, 10-4-93)
Sec. 8-4-3. - Mobile homes prohibited in certain areas.
It shall be unlawful, temporarily or permanently, to locate or place a "mobile home" as described herein, in the city, except where permitted by ordinance and zoning for "mobile home parks."
(Code 1959, § 21-3)
Sec. 8-4-4. - Portable structures; sizes.
It shall be unlawful to locate or place in the city any portable structure larger than 196 square feet (exterior measurement), which is used for the purpose as described in subparagraphs d. and e. in the definition of "portable structures" in section 8-4-1.
(Code 1959, § 21-4; Ord. No. 93-021, 10-4-93)
Sec. 8-4-5. - Same; permits (utility or storage).
Any person, partnership or corporation desiring to transport and place on site a portable structure within the city, as described in subparagraphs d. and e. in the definition of "portable structures," in section 8-4-1 of 196 square feet (exterior measurement) shall obtain a permit in accordance with the ordinances for erecting a building.
(Code 1959, § 21-5)
Sec. 8-4-6. - Same; permits to be temporarily used for certain purposes.
(a)
Any person desiring to transport or place a portable structure in the city exceeding 196 square feet (exterior measurement) for one of the purposes described in subparagraphs a., b. and c. in the definition of "portable structures" as contained in section 8-4-1, shall make application for a permit from the planning and zoning administration. The planning and zoning administration may grant or deny the application based upon the information before it, when considered in the light of the public interest and welfare and the effect on the community. Such a permit, when issued, shall specify an expiration date and such date shall not be for a period longer than six (6) months from the date of issuance.
(b)
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to place a structure defined in section 8-4-1 of this chapter to be used for recreational purposes shall make application for a permit from the planning and zoning administration. The planning and zoning administration may grant or deny the application based upon the information before it, when considered in the light of the public interest and welfare and the effect on the community. Such a permit, when issued, shall specify an expiration date and such date shall not be for a period longer than eight (8) calendar days. After a permit issued pursuant to this section expires, no additional permit may be issued for the same location for a period of 30 days.
(Code 1959, § 21-6; Ord. No. 93-021, 10-4-93)
Sec. 8-4-7. - Same; extension of time of permit.
A person who has been issued a temporary six (6) months portable structure permit under the terms of this chapter may upon compliance with the original requirements for obtaining a temporary permit, be granted a second six (6) months portable structure permit at the discretion of the planning and zoning administration. However, in no event shall any person be allowed temporarily to place a portable structure at any location within the city for a period to exceed the original six (6) month period plus a second temporary six (6) month period.
(Code 1959, § 21-7; Ord. No. 93-021, 10-4-93)
Sec. 8-4-8. - Same; located at construction sites.
It shall be unlawful to place or use a portable structure requiring a permit under section 8-4-6 in the city without such a permit or to continue to place, transport or use such a structure beyond the expiration date of the permit. Any portable structure which is permitted as described in subparagraph (2) b. in section 8-4-1 (construction company in subparagraph (2) b. in section 8-4-1 (construction company office) must be removed within 90 days after certificate of occupancy has been issued.
(Code 1959, § 21-8)
Sec. 8-4-9. - Same; sanitary requirement.
(a)
Suitable toilet facilities shall be provided for by the permit holder. Such facilities shall consist of at least one (1) water closet or chemical toilet and one (1) urinal for each 30 workmen.
(b)
Such facilities shall be provided in a well ventilated location protected from the weather, and affording reasonable privacy.
(Code 1959, § 21-9)
Sec. 8-4-10. - Same; parking and storing.
The parking and storage of personal recreational vehicles not used for any purpose other than parking or storage is not prohibited by this chapter. The total number of units to be stored or parked at any single-family residence will not exceed two (2).
(Code 1959, § 21-10)
Sec. 8-4-11. - Construction office trailers.
(a)
The planning and zoning administration is hereby authorized to approve permits for construction office trailers.
(b)
Construction office trailers defined. For purposes of this section, "construction office trailers" shall be defined as those portable structures placed on a construction site to be used by supervisors, planners and builders in the construction or remodeling of a given structure. Said construction office trailers are placed on the construction site only until such time as the construction work is completed, then they are removed from said construction site.
(c)
The planning and zoning administration is only authorized to approve permits where a building permit has been issued.
(d)
Length of permit. When the planning and zoning administration issues a permit pursuant to this Code section, said permit shall be valid for a period of six (6) months, commencing upon the date that the permit is issued. Said permit may be extended by the planning and zoning administration for one (1) six (6) month period only.
(e)
All other permits of every kind and nature for temporary or portable structures shall also require the approval of the planning and zoning administration as set forth in other parts of this title.
(Ord. No. 88-003, 1-18-88; Ord. No. 93-021, 10-4-93)
Secs. 8-4-12—8-4-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE B. - USE OF TRAILERS AND SEMI-TRAILERS IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— The provisions of this article were originally designated as §§ 8-4-15—8-4-19. Renumbering was performed by the codifier to correspond to the numbering scheme of the Code.

Sec. 8-4-21. - Definitions.
When used in this article, the following words shall have the following definitions:
(1)
Trailer means every vehicle, with or without motive power, other than a pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
(2)
Semitrailer means every vehicle, with or without motive power, other than a pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon, or is carried, by another vehicle.
(3)
Residence district means the territory contiguous to and including a highway not comprising a business district, when the property on such highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(4)
The above definitions are the same as those found in the Official Code of Georgia, section 40-1-1, and for purposes of construction of this Code section, the remaining definitions set forth in O.C.G.A., section 40-1-1 are hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord. No. 89-001, 1-3-89)
Sec. 8-4-22. - Use, etc., in residence districts prohibited.
(a)
The operation, use, parking and storage of any trailer and semitrailer in residential districts located within the city is hereby prohibited, except as set forth in section 8-4-23 of this title.
(b)
The operation, use, parking and storage in any residential district located within the city of any vehicle, the operation of which requires a commercial driver's license under the laws of the state, is hereby prohibited, except as set forth in section 8-4-23 of this title.
(c)
The operation, use, parking and storage in residential districts located within the city of any vehicle with a gross vehicle weight in excess of eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds, which vehicle includes commercial advertising or identification on the exterior of the said vehicle, is hereby prohibited, except as set forth in section 8-4-23 of this title.
(Ord. No. 89-001, 1-3-89, as amended by Ord. No. 93-012, 6-7-93)
Sec. 8-4-23. - Exceptions.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as to prohibit the following:
(1)
To restrict transportation and flow of goods and services in the ordinary flow of commerce through the city;
(2)
To prevent the pickup and delivery of goods and services in the ordinary course of business;
(3)
To prevent any person, firm, or corporation from using small trailers designed for the task of transporting and storing boats, motorcycles, campers, all-terrain vehicles and the like, the use of said trailer being the purpose for which it was originally designed;
(4)
Nor shall the prohibitions set forth in section 8-4-22 apply to any residential lot with at least one hundred forty (140) feet of frontage on a city street that has been paved in accordance with standards established by the city department of public works for an "industrial road" and has been designated as a "truck route" under City Code Title 10, Chapter 2, Article B, sections 10-2-31 through 10-2-35, if all of the land lying directly across the street from any such residential lot is zoned and used for industrial purposes and also has at least one hundred forty (140) feet of frontage on said street; and if the city block in which such residential lot is located is bordered on at least two (2) sides by more than ten (10) acres of land zoned and used for industrial purposes.
(Ord. No. 89-001, 1-3-89; Ord. No. 06-03, § 1, 2-6-2006)
Sec. 8-4-24. - Penalties.
In the event that some provision of this article is violated, that person found to be in violation shall be notified and given the opportunity to correct the condition, but, in the event said condition remains uncorrected for a period of twenty-four (24) hours, that person shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of the Code of Ordinances of the city. Once the initial notification has been accomplished, any subsequent or repeat violation will result in the issuance of a citation immediately, without the violator being given any opportunity to correct the condition.
(Ord. No. 89-001, 1-3-89; Ord. No. 01-14, § 1, 10-1-2001)
