ARTICLE I. - SWIMMING POOLS

Sec. 8-2-81. - International Property Maintenance Code adopted.
A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk, being marked and designated as the International Code Council International Property Maintenance Code, 2003 edition, thereof, and any subsequent amendments, additions or deletions thereto, or future updated editions thereof, including any fee schedule included therein, as published by International Code Congress which is referred to, incorporated herein and made a part hereof for all purposes, the provisions of which shall be controlling within the city. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the swimming pools code and the provisions of this Code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations, the provisions of this Code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations shall prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. No. 04-80, § 1, 12-20-2004)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 04-80, § 1, adopted Dec. 20, 2004 deleted § 8-2-81 swimming pool code adopted and enacted a new section; International property maintenance code adopted. Formerly, Ord. No. 92-012, § 1, adopted Mar. 16, 1992 repealed and replaced § 8-2-81, updating the edition of the swimming pool code to be used by the city.
(Ord. No. 92-012, 3-16-92, § 1)
Sec. 8-2-82. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein; when not inconsistent with the context:
(1)
Family pool is a swimming pool used or intended to be used solely by the owner, operator or lessee thereof and his family, and by friends invited to use it without payment of any fee.
(2)
Swimming pool is a body of water in an artificial or semi-artificial receptacle or other container, whether located indoors or outdoors, used or intended to be used for public, semipublic or private swimming by adults or children, or both adults and children, whether or not any charge or fee is imposed upon such adults or children, operated and maintained by any person as herein defined, whether he be an owner, lessee, operator, licensee or concessionaire, exclusive of a family pool as defined herein, and shall include all structures, appurtenances, equipment, appliances and other facilities appurtenant to and intended for the operation and maintenance of a swimming pool, and also all swimming pools operated and maintained in conjunction with or by clubs, motels, hotels, and community associations.
Sec. 8-2-83. - Enclosures required.
(a)
Every outdoor swimming pool or family pool shall be completely surrounded by a fence or wall not less than four (4) feet in height, which shall be so constructed as not to have openings, holes, or gaps larger than four (4) inches in any dimension except for doors and gates; and if a picket fence is erected or maintained the horizontal dimensions shall not exceed four (4) inches. A dwelling house or accessory building may be used as part of such enclosure.
(b)
All gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be equipped with a self-closing and self-latching device for keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times when not in actual use, except that the door of any dwelling which forms a part of the enclosure need not be so equipped.
(c)
This requirement shall be applicable to all new swimming pools or family pools hereafter constructed, other than indoor pools, and shall apply to all existing pools which have a minimum depth of eighteen (18) inches of water. No person in possession of land within the city either as owner, purchaser, lessee, tenant or a licensee, upon which is situated a swimming pool or family pool having a minimum depth of eighteen (18) inches shall fail to provide and maintain such fence or wall as herein provided.
(Code 1959, § 18-5)
Sec. 8-2-84. - Safety precautions for bathers.
All reasonable precautions shall be taken to protect the users of and bathers in swimming pools from injury or accident. Convenient means of ingress and egress shall be provided and the depth of water and any irregularities of the bottom shall be clearly indicated. Safety appliances such as lifebuoys, life hooks, bamboo poles, or ropes and equipment, including first aid kits shall be provided and be readily accessible in such manner and quantity as specified by the city.
Sec. 8-2-85. - Shielding lights.
Lights used to illuminate any swimming pool or family pool shall be arranged and shaded as to reflect light away from adjoining premises.
(Code 1959, § 18-15)
Secs. 8-2-86—8-2-90. - Reserved.
