CHAPTER 4. - WRECKERS AND WRECKER SERVICES

Sec. 9-4-1. - Definition.
The term "wrecker" as used in this chapter means any vehicle equipped and used for the purpose of towing wrecked or disabled automobiles or vehicles; and the term "wrecker service" shall mean any person, firm, partnership, or corporation which is engaged solely or partially in the business of towing wrecked or disabled automobiles or vehicles.
(Code 1959, § 23A-1(a))
Sec. 9-4-2. - Compliance with chapter.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, either as principal, agent or employee, to use or operate upon any of the streets of the city or any area inside the corporate limits, any wrecker without complying with the provisions of this chapter except as provided herein.
(Code 1959, § 23A-1(b))
Sec. 9-4-3. - Business license required; non-transferable.
It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm, association, or corporation to operate or cause to be operated, any wrecker, as defined in section 9-4-1 within the corporate limits of the city, which maintains its principal, or any branch office within the corporate city limits, or any wrecker services which generates 50 percent of its gross income by conducting business within the corporate city limits, without first having obtained a business license from the revenue collection division of the city.
(Code 1959, § 23A-2)
State Law reference— Municipal license fees and business taxes on wrecker services limited, O.C.G.A., § 48-13-10.1.
Sec. 9-4-4. - Registration decals required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated, a wrecker as defined in subsection 9-4-1, unless the wrecker bears a current registered decal. The decal shall be valid for a period of one (1) year from date of issue and shall bear the registration decal number, the date of issue and the date of expiration, together with any other information deemed appropriate by the chief of police or his delegate. The decal shall be placed on the lower corner of the windshield of the wrecker on the driver's side.
(Code 1959, § 23A-3)
Sec. 9-4-5. - Exemption from license and registration decal requirements.
(a)
No business license shall be required for any wrecker or wrecker service which is operated within the city when the wrecker company is duly licensed and registered in accordance with the laws, if any, of the place having jurisdiction over the business.
(b)
Any wrecker, or wrecker service, which uses the streets of the city, for purposes of either point of pickup of a motor vehicle or point of delivery of same on a regular basis, shall be required to obtain and display a registration decal as provided in sections 9-4-4 and 9-4-6 of this chapter. A "regular basis" shall be defined for purposes of this chapter as meaning more than one time in a calendar year.
(c)
The wrecker or wrecker service is not engaged in any activity whereby neither the point of pickup or the point of delivery of any wrecked or disabled vehicle is within the city, or otherwise does not engage in business in the city; provided, that the burden is upon the wrecker, wrecker service, or his agent to prove either the point of pickup or the point of delivery is not within the city limits; specifically a wrecker or wrecker service which merely passes through the city limits is exempt from complying with the terms of this chapter.
(Code 1959, § 23A-4)
Sec. 9-4-6. - Application for registered decal; information required in application.
Application for the registration decal required by section 9-4-4 shall be made to the inspection and permits unit of the city police department on forms prescribed and provided by that department. The application form, which shall be completed under oath, shall contain the name, address and telephone number of any person, partnership, firm, association or corporation operating or causing the operation of the wrecker; the name, address and telephone number of the owner of the wrecker, if different from the operator; the make, model, color, year of manufacture, tag number and vehicle identification number of the wrecker; the date the wrecker was put into service; the state emergency light permit number; and the business license number, if any, and the name and policy number of the casualty insurance carrier covering said vehicle.
(Code 1959, § 23A-5)
Sec. 9-4-7. - Required information to be printed on side of wrecker.
It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm, association or corporation, either as principal, agent or employee, to operate or cause to be operated within the city any wrecker as defined in section 9-4-1, unless this vehicle shall have lettered in permanent paint on each side in plain view the following information: the name of the person, partnership, firm, association or corporation owning and causing its wrecker to operate on the streets of the city, the address from which the wrecker is operating and the telephone number. This lettering shall be in contrasting color to the color of the wrecker and shall be at least two and one half (2-½) inches in height. Temporary or removable magnetic signs shall not be permitted.
(Code 1959, § 23A-6)
Sec. 9-4-8. - Typed, weekly reports of certain vehicles stored by certain businesses required.
(a)
Wrecker services; storage facilities. The owner or operator of any business providing wrecker service or storage facilities for vehicles shall furnish to the criminal investigation division of the police department, on forms of the type approved by the department, a typed, weekly report listing all motor vehicles towed or stored within the city and remaining within the possession of the business on the Friday following the towing or storage. The vehicle shall be listed in each subsequent weekly report so long as it remains in the possession of the business.
(b)
Auto salvage; crushing businesses; junk yards. Any person, partnership, firm, association or corporation in the business of auto salvage or otherwise in the business of selling used parts from vehicles within the seller's possession and any person, partnership, firm, association or corporation in the business of crushing, cutting up or otherwise permanently destroying vehicles for scrap metal shall furnish to the criminal investigation division of the police department, on forms of a type approved by the department, a typed, weekly report listing all vehicles obtained for the purpose of salvage, used parts, or scrap metal, during the weekly reporting period. The weekly reporting period shall begin at 12:01 a.m. each Saturday.
(c)
Contents of report. The weekly reports required by subsections (a) and (b) shall be due each Tuesday and shall contain the name of the person, partnership, firm, association, or corporation reporting; the authority under which the vehicle was towed, stored or salvaged for parts or scrap metal; a description of the vehicle; the location of its present storage site, if applicable its tag number, if any; its year and make; its color; and its vehicle identification number.
(d)
Inability to obtain information without damaging vehicle. If any of the information required by subsection (c) cannot be obtained for the weekly report required by subsection (a) without damaging the vehicle, the fact shall be conveyed by the owner or operator of the wrecker service or storage facility to the police department by telephonic communication and shall also be set forth in the weekly report.
(Code 1959, § 23A-7)
Sec. 9-4-9. - Call to scene of accident by certain persons only.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any wrecker, or his agent, representative or employee, to go to any place where an accident has occurred unless called by the driver or the owner of the disabled vehicle or the owner's authorized representative, or by the police division dispatcher. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any wrecker, or his agent, representative or employee to go to the place of the wreck by reason of information received by police radio.
(Code 1959, § 23A-8)
Sec. 9-4-10. - Responsible for cleaning debris from street and right-of-way.
All wrecker operators, after having been called to the scene of an accident for the purpose of removing a damaged vehicle, shall clean all debris caused by the accident from the street and right-of-way before they leave. In the event two (2) or more wreckers are called to the same accident, they shall be equally responsible for cleaning.
(Code 1959, § 23A-9)
State Law reference— Similar requirement under state law, O.C.G.A., § 40-6-277.
Sec. 9-4-11. - Solicitation for business by city employees prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any city employee to solicit business for any wrecker owner or operator.
(Code 1959, § 23A-10)
Sec. 9-4-12. - Cruising or parking for purpose of soliciting towing work.
It shall be unlawful to cruise or park on any street or bridge in a wrecker and solicit towing work.
(Code 1959, § 23A-11)
Sec. 9-4-13. - Revocation of license and recall and cancellation of decals generally.
(a)
The chief of police, or his delegate, may petition the city business license section to revoke the business license and recall and cancel the decals of any wrecker or owner or operator when he has been found in violation of any of the terms of this chapter or upon any of the following grounds:
(1)
if the registration was procured by fraudulent conduct or false statement of a material fact as to ownership, use, possession or operation;
(2)
if the owner or licensee is found at the scene of an accident in violation of the provisions of this chapter;
(3)
if the licensee uses a police radio to obtain information as to the location of the scene of the accident; or
(4)
if the licensee shall pay in the form of gratuity any person not involved in the accident for information as to the location of the accident.
(b)
This revocation shall terminate all authority and permission granted by the registration to the wrecker owner. Any person whose registration has been revoked shall not be eligible to again apply for a license for a period of one (1) year from the date of issuance of the original license.
(c)
Any person whose license has been revoked or decal has been cancelled by the business license section may file an appeal therefrom to the mayor and council within 20 days from the date of this revocation. The mayor and council shall give the operator at least 10 days' notice in advance of the date of a public hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not his business license and/or wrecker decal to operate a wrecker shall be revoked and/or cancelled. Upon hearing the facts, the mayor and council, by majority vote, may reverse, vacate, or modify the order of the business license section.
(Code 1959, § 23A-12)
Sec. 9-4-14. - Notification of police department upon removal of vehicles at request of any person other than the active duty police officer.
The operator of any wrecker removing a private motor vehicle at the request of another person not the owner thereof, other than a city police officer on duty shall report this action to the city police along with the following information: the location of its present storage place, a description of the vehicle, the tag number and the vehicle identification number. This report shall be made by the wrecker operator by telephonic communication to the police within one (1) hour of the deposit of the vehicle at its storage point.
(Code 1959, § 23A-13)
Sec. 9-4-15. - Penalties for violation of this chapter.
Any person, partnership, firm, association or corporation that violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction in municipal court, be punished as provided in section 1-1-8 of this code. Each day's unlawful violation shall constitute a separate offense hereunder. The chief of police or his delegate shall have authority to issue citations for violations of this chapter.
(Code 1959, § 23A-14)
