CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Business and occupation taxes, § 3-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 9-1-1. - License required; annual basis; display of license; license for each place of business.
(a)
Every person, firm or corporation engaged in any commerce whatsoever within the city shall be required to obtain a license before he shall commence business except as provided by this chapter. This license shall be issued on an annual basis set forth in this chapter and for the fees provided in this chapter. No person, firm, partnership, corporation or any other applicant shall be allowed to renew any annual license nor shall any business license issue unless all past due city taxes and other assessments have been paid prior to the tender of payment of the annual license fee.
(b)
Every person, firm or corporation shall be required to display his license in a prominent place. He shall be required to obtain a license for each place of business within the city without regard to other business locations previously licensed. This license is not transferable to any new person, firm or corporation.
(c)
Whenever the term "license" is used herein, such term shall be synonymous with that occupation tax certificate.
(d)
This section shall not apply to the sale of food and/or merchandise under section 9-15-13 or the sale of alcoholic beverages under section 9-15-14.
(Code 1986, § 9-1-1; Ord. No. 86-003, 4-7-86; Ord. No. 94-003, 10-17-94; Ord. No. 16-13, § 1, 9-19-2016)
Sec. 9-1-2. - Applications; denial of applications.
(a)
Every person, firm or corporation shall make application for a license to the office of the director of finance in accordance with the forms and procedures established by that office. The correctness of all information required by the application shall be sworn to or affirmed by the person or principal or corporate officer empowered to make binding agreements by that firm or corporation. Failure to provide any information or knowingly falsifying any information may result in revocation and fines and penalties as provided by this chapter.
(b)
The director of finance may deny any application for a license or renewal of a license under this chapter whenever he has been provided with a copy of a written order entered by the city manager (or by a hearing officer acting in place of the city manager) pursuant to section 9-1-12 of this Code suspending or revoking any license issued under this chapter, within the immediately preceding twelve-month period. In such an event, no second "show cause hearing" shall be required to establish any of the facts underlying the section 9-1-12 order, but the applicant may request a hearing to contest the validity of the denial of the license by filing a request for a hearing with the city clerk within ten (10) days following the date of his receipt of the denial. The denial shall be sent to the applicant via United States mail overnight delivery to the address provided by the applicant on his application.
(c)
The director of finance may deny any application for a license or renewal of a license under this chapter when he has been provided information by the city's police department that the applicant has, with knowledge actual or implied (i.e., when the applicant knew or under the circumstances reasonably should have known) allowed conduct within or upon his business premises constituting a violation or violations of any federal or state laws or city ordinances, when such conduct would affect or relate to the applicant's qualification to conduct the business, or where such activities involve, affect or relate to the manner in which the applicant's business would be or is being conducted. The applicant may request a hearing to contest the denial of the license by filing a request for such a hearing with the city clerk within ten (10) days following the date of his receipt of the denial. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with section 9-1-12 of this Code. The denial shall be sent to the applicant via United States mail overnight delivery to the address provided by the applicant on his application.
(d)
The applicant may file a petition for a writ of certiorari in the Superior Court to contest any decision made pursuant to this section. Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the city's governing body from appointing a hearing officer to serve in lieu of the director of finance under this section.
(Ord. No. 11-47, § 1, 12-5-2011)
Sec. 9-1-3. - Fees.
Each person, firm or corporation shall register their business and pay any and all occupation taxes required as set forth in title 3, chapter 3 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 94-003, 10-17-94)
Sec. 9-1-4. - Time for application and payment of fees.
The license or occupation tax certificate is issued on an annual basis for a period from January 1 through December 31 of the year for which it is issued. The procedure for application is set forth in title 3, chapter 3 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 93-022, 11-1-93; Ord. No. 94-003, 10-17-94)
Sec. 9-1-5. - Proof of state and county licenses and/or permits as condition of license.
(a)
Where a license or permit from any state or county office or agency is required as a prerequisite to engaging in any particular type of business, such as, but not limited to, food service establishments, private detectives, child care facilities and nursing homes, or where such a license or permit is required to maintain a particular facility as part of a larger business, such as swimming pools located in health clubs or food counters located in retail establishments, a city business license shall not be issued for that establishment unless proof of the required state or county license or permit accompanies the application for the city business license.
(b)
Suspension or revocation of any such required license or permit from a state or county office or agency shall result in immediate suspension or revocation of the city business license.
Sec. 9-1-6. - Change of address.
Any person moving from one location to another shall notify the director of finance of such move and the new address in writing on a form provided by the director of finance no later than the day of moving. The same business license will be valid at the new location if such new location conforms to the zoning regulations of the city.
Sec. 9-1-7. - Penalties.
Persons, firms or corporations violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the same penalties as set forth in title 3, chapter 3 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 94-003, 10-17-94)
Sec. 9-1-8. - Rules and regulations.
The city manager shall have the power and authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations, in accordance with section 2-3-2, not inconsistent with this chapter or other laws of the city and the state, or the constitution of this state or the United States, for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and the collection of the license fees hereunder.
Sec. 9-1-9. - Subsequent amendments.
This chapter shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the city to assess, levy and collect any of the license fees prescribed. The payment of any license fee herein provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the assessments, levy, or collection of additional license fees upon the same person, firm or corporation.
Sec. 9-1-10. - Effect upon previous ordinances.
This chapter does not repeal or affect the force of any part of the ordinance heretofore passed where fees levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore and hereafter passed providing for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any fees or assessment required by such ordinance, or that impose fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such fees, or for the failure to take out a license provided for in such ordinance or ordinances, or failure to comply with any other provisions thereof, shall continue and remain in force and effect until such fees or assessments shall be fully paid.
Sec. 9-1-11. - Effect of this chapter.
This chapter shall remain in full force and effect until amended or repealed by the mayor and council of the city, and until such amendment or repeal shall become effective; it not being the intent by the enactment of this chapter to bind the present mayor and council of the city or their successors so as to prevent free legislation with respect to the levy or assessment of occupation taxes and license fees. All provisions herein relating to any form of license fee herein levied and assessed shall remain in full force and effect until such license fees have been paid in full.
Sec. 9-1-12. - Revocation and suspension of licenses.
(a)
Application to title 9 provisions. In addition to any other provisions hereinafter contained, the following revocation provisions shall apply to all [chapters] of [title] 9 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Forest Park.
(b)
Authority to revoke or suspend licenses for unlawful activities. The city manager for the city is hereby authorized to make investigations, conduct hearings, and suspend or revoke any licenses issued under Title 9 of this Code of Ordinances in accordance with the following procedure.
(c)
Preliminary investigation; show cause hearing; notice and hearing; findings of fact. Where it is reported to the city manager that any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity holding a license issued under Title 9 of this Code of Ordinances ("the licensee") has, with knowledge actual or implied (i.e., where the licensee knew or under the circumstances should have reasonably known), allowed two (2) or more separate unlawful activities to be carried on within or upon the licensee's place of business or business premises, including activities which would constitute violations of the laws of the State of Georgia or any city ordinances, and where such activities would directly or indirectly affect the licensee's qualification to continue to conduct the licensed business, or where such activities involve or affect the manner in which said business was or is being conducted, the licensee shall be notified to appear before the city manager at a time, date and place certain and show cause why the licensee's business license should not be revoked or suspended. The licensee may appear at the hearing in person and may be represented by counsel (at his own expense), and shall have the right to present evidence and cross-examine witnesses. The rules of evidence shall not apply, but the hearing shall be conducted in a fundamentally fair manner. Within ten (10) business days following the conclusion of the hearing, the city manager shall issue a written order including findings of fact based upon the evidence presented at the hearing, and may:
(1)
Find that the evidence does not warrant or authorize revocation or suspension of the license;
(2)
Issue a warning to the licensee;
(3)
Suspend the license and probate the suspension;
(4)
Suspend the license for any period up to sixty (60) days;
(5)
Enter an order revoking the license instanter.
(d)
Appeals. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the city manager made pursuant to this section may file a petition for a writ of certiorari in the Superior Court of Clayton County, Georgia in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia, provided that the decision of the city manager shall not be stayed during the pendency of the proceedings in the superior court, nor shall it be stayed in the event of an appeal from the final order and judgment of the superior court.
(Ord. No. 88-001, 1-18-88; Ord. No. 11-18, § 1, 5-16-2011)
