Subchapter 5 - Civil Defense
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3-4-401. - Crisis relocation plan adopted.
The Henry County, Georgia Crisis Relocation Plan, dated December, 1982, is hereby adopted as if set out at length in this Code.
Secs. 3-4-402—3-4-430. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 84-09, enacted May 15, 1984, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, codification of the substantive provisions of §§ 1—6 of said ordinance as Art. II, §§ 3-4-431—3-4-436, is at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 3-4-431. - Definition of plan.
As used in this article, the term "emergency management" shall mean the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or other state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent treat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, fire fighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plat protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Ord. No. 84-09, § 1, 5-15-84)
Sec. 3-4-432. - Office established; director; duties.
The board of commissioners of Henry County hereby establishes the "Henry County Emergency Management Office." The board of commissioners shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the county and in voluntary cooperation with the cities of Henry County on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist county and city officials in organizing departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with county and city departments and agencies, the "Henry County Plan for Emergency Functions" as set forth in section 3-4-431 of this article. Such plan will be in consonance with the state "Natural Disaster Operations Plan and Nuclear Emergency Operations Plan," and shall be submitted to the governing officials of Henry County and the cities and/or towns therein for approval, and thence to the state emergency management director for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management office and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit these and other reports as required by county governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g. financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
To procure, with the authority of county governing officials, a facility to be used as the Henry County Emergency Operations Center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operations center staff during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of the director, the Henry County Board of Commissioners or the county administrator.
(Ord. No. 84-09, § 2, 5-15-84)
Sec. 3-4-433. - Emergency management organization.
(a)
The Henry County Emergency Management Organization shall be established around existing county and city departments and agencies, and the emergency functions listed in section 3-4-431 above are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Functions
(1) Executive (county and city elected officials and chief administrator) Directions and control; public information; supply; finance
(2) Police (county and city police departments) Security; movement; search; communications; warning
(3) Fire control Fire control; rescue*; damage assessment
(4) Public works, roads, and engineering Utilities and public services restoration; hazards analysis
(5) Human resources, including: Human needs, including:
a. Department of family and children services Welfare
b. Division of physical health Health control
c. Hospital services Medical and mortuary services
d. Ambulance services Casualty transport
(6) Emergency management Shelter; radiological defense; rescue; assistance in industrial and institutional emergency planning; emergency transportation
  *As appropriate to local organization; function can be assigned to an existing department or may be separate.
(b)
Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the emergency management director to the county commission, via the county administrator and governing officials of cities where appropriate.
(Ord. No. 84-09, § 3, 5-15-84)
Sec. 3-4-434. - Emergency powers.
In the event of man-made or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of Henry County, the chairman of the county commission, the county administrator, or the director of emergency management may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws, and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use, or condemn any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county; to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Ord. No. 84-09, § 4, 5-15-84)
Sec. 3-4-435. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the cities and county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees.
(Ord. No. 84-09, § 5, 5-15-84)
Sec. 3-4-436. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 84-09, § 6, 5-15-84)
Secs. 3-4-437—3-4-499. - Reserved.
