PART I - CHARTER
CITY OF HAHIRA, GEORGIA [1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the City of Hahira, GA., as last amended March 1, 2012. Any changes to the original material is indicated by history notes in parenthesis at the end of the section affected. The absence of such a history note indicates that the material remains substantially unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. Additions made for clarity are held within brackets [ ].

TITLE
An Act to incorporate the City of Hahira, approved by the General Assembly of Georgia on August 19, 1912 (Ga.L. 1912, p. 951), pursuant to the original incorporation approved October 2, 1891; to provide that all valid contracts heretobefore entered into by the mayor and council of the City of Hahira shall be good and valid for or against the City of Hahira; that all property now held and owned by the mayor and council of the City of Hahira shall be and become the right and property of the City of Hahira; that all rights and liabilities of the mayor and council of the City of Hahira shall accrue to and against the City of Hahira; that all ordinances of the mayor and council of the City of Hahira, not in conflict with this Charter, shall be valid and enforceable as ordinances of the City of Hahira; to define the limits of the City of Hahira; to provide for a mayor and councilmen and other officers of the said City of Hahira; and to prescribe their powers and duties and the manner of their election; to provide for streets and sidewalks and the working or paving of the same; for a system of sanitary sewerage; for a system of water works; to declare and define the police powers of said City of Hahira, and to provide for all matters of municipal concern and cognizance; for taxation or granting of licenses to all kinds of business, trades and professions; to authorize the issuing of bonds of the said City of Hahira by the mayor and council and to grant a charter to the said City of Hahira, and for other purposes, is hereby amended in its entirety and all amendatory acts thereto are likewise amended in their entirety. All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Charter are hereby amended.
ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Sec. 1.10. - Name.
This city and the inhabitants thereof, are re-incorporated by the enactment of this Charter and are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style City of Hahira, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession.
Sec. 1.20. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this Charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the City of Hahira and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map of the corporate limits of the City of Hahira, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the City Clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the entire map or maps which it is designated to replace.
Sec. 1.30. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter. This city shall have all the powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this Charter or by general law.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
Sec. 1.31.
Examples of powers.
By way of example, and not of limitation, the governing body of the city shall have the following powers:
(a)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at-large of animals and fowl, and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder;
(b)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this Charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(c)
Building regulation. To regulate and to license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, fire safety, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing, and building trades;
(d)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for the collection of regulatory fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions as authorized by Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted; to permit and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such regulatory fees and taxes; and to revoke such permits after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees;
(e)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the Official Code of Georgia Ga. Annotated, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(f)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations;
(g)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(h)
Environmental protection. To protect and preserve the natural resources, environment and vital areas of the city, the region, and the state through the preservation and improvement of air quality, the restoration and maintenance of water resources, the control of erosion and sedimentation, the management of stormwater and establishment of a stormwater utility, the management of solid and hazardous waste, and other necessary actions for the protection of the environment;
(i)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(j)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal, and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(k)
General health, safety and welfare. To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city, and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(l)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(m)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(n)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and other public property in the city, to provide for commitment of such persons to any jail, to provide for the use of pretrial diversion and any alternative sentencing allowed by law, or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(o)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking upon or across the streets, roads, alleys and walkways of the city;
(p)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions and agencies of the city, and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
(q)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(r)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, lease, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(s)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city, and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(t)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, stormwater management, gas works, electric light plants, cable television and other telecommunications, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility, inside or outside the city; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties, and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same;
(u)
Nuisance. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(v)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(w)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning; and to provide subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to insure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community;
(x)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers, and to establish, operate, or contract for a police and a firefighting agency;
(y)
Public Hazards: Removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure or condition which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(z)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and to provide any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 22 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(aa)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of loitering, disorderly conduct, drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(bb)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(cc)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for, or impose taxes on public utilities and public service companies; and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations of the Public Service Commission;
(dd)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(ee)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan and other employee benefit plans and programs for officers and employees of the city;
(ff)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands, and to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(gg)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system, and to levy on those to whom sewers and sewerage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge or sewer tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system;
(hh)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse, and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials, and to provide for the sale of such items;
(ii)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors; to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows of any kind, by taxation or otherwise; to license and tax professional fortunetelling, palmistry, and massage parlors; and to restrict adult bookstores to certain areas;
(jj)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(kk)
Taxes: Ad Valorem. To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(ll)
Taxes: Other. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law;
(mm)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles;
(nn)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(oo)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary or desirable to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.40. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE

Sec. 2.10-20. - Legislative branch.
Sec. 2.11.
City council creation; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and four (4) councilmembers. The four councilmembers shall be elected from single member districts by the voters in each district. The mayor shall be elected at large, city wide. Members of council from each of the four single-member council districts, designated as Council Districts No. 1, No. 2, No. 3 and No. 4, shall reside in the district he or she represents, and shall be voted on solely by the registered voters residing in his or her district. Council Districts Nos. 1 through 4 shall consist of the territory of the City of Hahira contained in the description of each such district attached to this Charter and made a part hereof. The city council established shall in all respects be a successor to and continuation of the governing authority under prior law. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected in the manner provided by general law and this Charter.
The four election districts for the City of Hahira shall be as shown on the official district map on file in the City Clerk's office as amended from time to time. Where a district boundary is defined by a street or railroad right-of-way, the dividing line between districts shall be the center line of said street or right-of-way.
(Ord. No. 12-04-05, § I, 4-5-2012; Ord. No. 22-05-05 , § 1, 5-5-2022)
Sec. 2.12.
City council terms and qualifications of office.
The members of the city council shall serve for terms of four (4) years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or councilmember unless that person shall have been a resident of the city for twelve (12) months prior to the date of election of mayor or members of the council and be a registered and qualified voter of the city at the time of qualifying; each shall continue to reside therein during that member's period of service and to be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of this city. In addition to these requirements, no person shall be eligible to serve as a councilmember representing a council district unless that person has been a resident of the district such person seeks to represent for a continuous period of at least 12 months immediately prior to the date of the election for councilmember and continues to reside in such district during that person's period of service. If the mayor or a member of council changes his or her residence to a district other than the district he or she represents or to a location outside the City, that council seat shall immediately be declared vacant by the city council and the vacancy shall be filled as provided in this Charter.
Sec. 2.13.
Election of mayor; forfeiture; compensation.
At each regular election the voters of the city shall elect a mayor at large for a term of four (4) years until a successor is elected and qualified. The mayor shall be a qualified elector of this city and shall have been a resident of the city for 12 months preceding the election. The mayor shall continue to reside in this city during the period of service. The mayor shall forfeit the office on the same grounds and under the same procedure as for councilmembers. The compensation of the mayor shall be established in the same manner as for councilmembers.
Sec. 2.14.
Vacancy; filling of vacancies.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or occurrence of any event specified by the constitution of the State of Georgia, Title 45 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
Filling of Vacancies. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, by appointment by the city council or those members remaining if less than 12 months remains in the unexpired term. If such vacancy occurs 12 months or more prior to the expiration of the term of that office, it shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by a special election, in accordance with Titles 21 and 45 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or other such laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(c)
This provision shall also apply to a temporary vacancy created by the suspension from office of the mayor or any councilmember.
Sec. 2.15.
Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and councilmembers shall receive compensation and expenses for their services as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 2.16.
Holding other office; voting when financially interested.
(a)
Elected and appointed officers of the city are trustees and servants of the residents of the city and shall act in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of such residents.
(b)
Except as authorized by law, the mayor or any councilmember shall not hold any other city office or city employment during the term for which that person was elected.
(c)
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall vote upon, sign or veto any ordinance, resolution, contract or other matter in which that person is financially interested.
Sec. 2.17.
Inquiries and investigations.
Following the adoption of an authorizing resolution, the city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office or agency thereof, and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 2.18.
General power and authority of the city council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or this Charter, the city council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city.
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter and the constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient, or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity, or wellbeing of the inhabitants of the City of Hahira and may enforce such ordinances by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(c)
Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations under section 2.17, the mayor and city council or its members shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the mayor and city manager solely through the mayor and city manager, and neither the city council nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
Sec. 2.19.
Chief executive officer.
The mayor shall be the chief executive of this city. The mayor shall possess all of the executive and administrative power granted to the city under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, and all the executive and administrative powers contained in this Charter.
Sec. 2.20.
Powers and duties of the mayor.
As the chief executive of this city, the mayor shall:
(a)
See that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed;
(b)
Appoint and remove all officers and department heads with the advice and consent of the city council, except as otherwise provided in this Charter;
(c)
Exercise supervision over all executive and administrative work of the city;
(d)
With the city manager, prepare and submit to the city council a recommended operating budget and capital budget;
(e)
Recommend to the city council such measures relative to the affairs of the city, improvement of the government, and promotion of the welfare of its inhabitants as the mayor may deem expedient;
(g)[(f)]
Call special meetings of the city council as provided for in section 2.23.02(b)[2.31.02(b)];
(h)[(g)]
Provide for an annual audit of all accounts of the city;
(i)[(h)]
Perform such other duties as may be required by law, this Charter, or by ordinance.
Sec. 2.21.
Eminent domain.
The mayor and city council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be condemned under procedures established under general law applicable now or as provided in the future.
Sec. 2.22.
Mayor pro tem.
The council shall elect by majority vote from among its members at the first meeting of the year a mayor pro tem who shall act as mayor during the absence or disability of the mayor, and, if a vacancy occurs, shall become mayor for the remainder of the expired term. During the absence or physical or mental disability of the mayor for any cause, the mayor pro tem shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of the mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue. Any such absence or disability shall be declared by majority vote of all councilmembers. The mayor pro tem shall sign all ordinances in which the mayor has a disqualifying financial interest as provided in section 2.17[2.16(c)]. When serving as mayor, the mayor pro tem shall not also vote as a member of the council except in the event of a tie.
Sec. 2.30. - Organization and procedures.
Sec. 2.31.
Meetings.
Sec. 2.31.01.
Organizational meetings.
The city council shall hold an organizational meeting on the first Thursday of the month of January on even years. The meeting shall be called to order by the mayor or mayor-elect and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members and shall, to the extent that it comports with federal and state law, be as follows:
"I do solemnly (swear)(affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of (mayor)(councilmember) of this city and that I will support and defend the Charter thereof as well as the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America. I am not the holder of any unaccounted for public money due this state or any political subdivision or authority thereof. I am not the holder of any office of trust under the government of the United States, any other state, or any foreign state which I by the laws of the State of Georgia am prohibited from holding. I am otherwise qualified to hold said office according to the constitution and laws of Georgia. I have been a resident [of my district and] the City of Hahira for the time required by the constitution and laws of this state and by the municipal Charter. I will perform the duties of my office in the best interest of the City of Hahira to the best of my ability without fear, favor, affection, reward, or expectation thereof."
Sec. 2.31.02.
Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The city council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as shall be prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the city council may be held on call of the mayor or four (4) members of the city council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to councilmembers shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such councilmember's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the city council shall be public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be made fully as is reasonably possible as provided by section 50-14-1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
Sec. 2.31.03.
Submission of financial condition.
For the purpose of enabling members of the council to know at all times the true financial condition of the town, the mayor and city manager, with the assistance of other personnel of the city, shall prepare for every regular meeting of the mayor and council a balance sheet or other form of financial statement showing the gross revenue of the fiscal year, and expenses up to that time.
Sec. 2.32.
Rules of procedure.
(a)
The city council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this Charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
(d)[(b)]
All committees and committee chairs and officers of the city council shall be appointed by the mayor and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor, with the exception of the mayor pro tem, who shall be appointed by a majority vote of the council, The mayor shall have the power to appoint new members to any committee at any time.
Sec. 2.33.
Quorum; voting.
(a)
The mayor or mayor pro tem and three (3) councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be by voice vote and the vote shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the city council shall have the right to request a roll call vote and such vote shall be recorded in the journal. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the affirmative vote of a majority of the councilmembers present and voting shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion. The mayor, or mayor pro tem when acting as mayor, shall vote only in case of a tie.
(b)
No member of the city council shall abstain from voting on any matter properly brought before the council for official action except when such councilmember has a conflict of interest which is disclosed in writing prior to or at the meeting and made a part of the minutes. Any member of the city council present and eligible to vote on a matter and refusing to do so for any reason other than a properly disclosed and recorded conflict of interest shall be deemed to have acquiesced or concurred with the members of the majority who did vote on the question involved.
Sec. 2.34.
Ordinances.
Sec. 2.34.01.
Ordinance form; procedures.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance should be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "It is hereby ordained by the governing authority of the City of Hahira" and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any councilmember and be read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the city council after three readings at separate meetings or upon unanimous consent at the first reading; except for emergency ordinances provided in section 2.34.03. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall as soon as possible distribute a copy to the mayor and to each councilmember and shall file a reasonable number of copies at such other public places as the city council may designate.
Sec. 2.34.02.
Action requiring an ordinance.
Acts of the city council which have the force and effect of law shall be enacted by ordinance.
Sec. 2.34.03.
Emergencies.
(a)
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or public peace, the city council may convene on call of the mayor or four (4) councilmembers and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes; grant, renew or extend a franchise; regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within the fiscal year in which it was adopted. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists, and describing the emergency in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted, with or without amendment, or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of a majority of the councilmembers present and eligible to vote shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. An emergency ordinance may be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(b)
Such meetings shall be open to the public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of emergency meetings shall be made as fully as is reasonably possible in accordance with section 50-14-1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
Sec. 2.34.04.
Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The city council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that:
(1)
The requirements of section 2.34.01(b) for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and
(2)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to section 2.34.05.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for inspection by the public.
Sec. 2.24[34].05.
Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by the clerk's signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose, all ordinances adopted by the council.
(b)
The city council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Hahira, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments and agencies of the city, and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the city council.
(c)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this Charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and Charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city council. Following publication of the first code under this Charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and Charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The city council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Sec. 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the city council, by ordinance, shall prescribe the functions or duties, and establish, abolish, alter, consolidate or leave vacant all non-elective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city. As used in this section, any action required to be taken with the "advice and consent of the city council" shall require an affirmative vote of a majority of the councilmembers present and eligible to vote on said action.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(b)[(c)]
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance or resolution.
(c)[(d)]
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of that director's department or agency.
(e)
All appointive officers and directors under the supervision of the mayor or city manager shall be appointed by the mayor with advice and consent of the city council. All appointive officers and directors shall be employees at-will and subject to removal or suspension at any time by the mayor with advice and consent of the council unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
Sec. 3.20. - Boards, commissions and authorities.
(a)
The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary, and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this Charter or by law.
(c)
The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission or authority.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by Charter or by law, no member of any board, commission or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(e)
Any vacancy on a board, commission or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law.
(f)
No member of a board, commission or authority shall assume office until that person has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating themselves to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of that member's office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(g)
All board members serve at-will and may be removed at any time by a vote of a majority of members not abstaining of the city council unless otherwise provided by law.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law, each board, commission or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chair and one member as vice-chair, and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter, ordinances of the city, or law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Sec. 3.30. - Administrative officers.
Sec. 3.31.
City manager.
Sec. 3.31.01.
City manager appointment; qualifications; compensation.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term and shall fix the manager's compensation. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications.
Sec. 3.31.02.
Removal of the city manager.
The city manager is employed at will and may be summarily removed from office at any time by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
Sec. 3.31.03.
Powers and duties of the city manager.
The city manager shall be responsible to the mayor and city council for the administration of all city affairs placed in the manager's charge by or under this Charter. The manager shall:
(a)
Appoint and, when the manager deems it necessary for the good of the city, suspend or remove all city employees (with the exception of department heads and other officers of the city) except as otherwise provided by law or personnel ordinances adopted pursuant to this Charter;
(b)
Direct the administration of all departments, offices and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law;
(c)
Attend all city council meetings except for closed meetings held for the purposes of deliberating on the appointment, discipline or removal of the city manager and have the right to take part in discussion but not vote;
(d)
See that all laws, provisions of this Charter, and acts of the city council, subject to enforcement by the manager or by officers subject to the manager's direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
(e)
Prepare and submit with the mayor the annual operating budget and capital budget to the city council;
(f)
Make such reports as the city council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices and agencies subject to the manager's direction and supervision;
(g)
Keep the city council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city, and make such recommendations to the city council concerning the affairs of the city as the manager deems desirable; and
(h)
Perform other such duties as are specified in this Charter or as may be required by the city council.
Sec. 3.32.
City clerk.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a councilmember. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal and city records; maintain city council records required by this Charter; and perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and city council.
Sec. 3.33.
City attorney.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a city attorney and shall provide for the payment of such attorney for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for providing for the representation and defense of the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the city council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required by virtue of the person's position as city attorney. The city attorney is not a public official of the city and does not take an oath of office. The city attorney shall at all times be an independent contractor. A law firm, rather than an individual, may be designated as the city attorney.
Sec. 3.34.
City engineer.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a city engineer and shall provide for the payment of such engineer for services rendered to the city. The city engineer shall be responsible for providing technical and comprehensive advice concerning the city's water, sewer, and road infrastructure, and shall perform such other duties as may be required by virtue of the person's position as city engineer. The city engineer is not a public official of the city and does not take an oath of office. The city engineer shall at all times be an independent contractor. An engineering firm, rather than an individual, may be designated as the city engineer
Sec. 3.35.
Chief of police.
The mayor and city council may appoint a chief of police and they shall be the chief executive officer of the police department; and perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and city council. In the exercise of their duties, the police chief shall have the power to establish and enforce rules and regulations of the government of the members and employees of the department, which rules shall, however, be consistent with the ordinances of the city and laws of the state.
Sec. 3.36.
Fire chief.
The mayor and city council may appoint a fire chief and they shall be the chief executive officer of the fire department; and perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and city council.
Sec. 3.37.
Public works director.
The mayor and city council may appoint a public works director and they shall be the chief executive officer of the public works department; and perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and city council.
Sec. 3.40. - Personnel administration.
Sec. 3.41.
Position classification and pay plans.
The mayor and city manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the city council for approval. Such plan may apply to all employees of the city and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the city council shall not increase or decrease the salary range applicable to any position except by amendment of such pay plan. For purposes of this section, all elected and appointed city officials are not city employees.
Sec. 3.42.
Personnel policies.
All employees serve at-will and may be removed from office at any time unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Sec. 4.10. - Creation; name.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Hahira.
Sec. 4.20. - Chief judge.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge as shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless that person shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia with at least two (2) years' experience as a practicing attorney, and shall possess all qualifications required by law. All judges shall be appointed by the mayor and city council and shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(c)
Compensation of the judge shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
A judge shall serve at-will and may be removed from office at any time by the mayor and city council unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
(e)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, that the judge will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of the office to the best of that person's ability and without fear, favor or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council journal required in section 2.33.
Sec. 4.30. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 4.40. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall have jurisdiction and authority to try and punish violations of this Charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) or ten (10) days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for 180 days or both such fine and imprisonment or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment or alternative sentencing as now, or hereafter provided by law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation, and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court, and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for that person's appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time, and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and the defendant's sureties with a rule nisi, at least two (2) days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by law.
(h)
Each judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
Sec. 4.50. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Lowndes County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Sec. 4.60. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the mayor and city council, the chief judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the mayor and city council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations applicable to municipal courts. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS AND REMOVAL

Sec. 5.10. - Elections.
Sec. 5.11.
Applicability of general law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Election Code (Title 21, Chapter 2 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated) as now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 5.12.
Election of the city council and mayor.
(a)
There shall be a municipal general election biennially in the odd years on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November.
(b)
There shall be elected mayor and two (2) councilmembers at one election and at every other regular election thereafter. The remaining city council seats shall be filled at the election alternating with the first election so that a continuing body is created. Terms shall be for four years.
Sec. 5.13.
Non-partisan elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party designations.
Sec. 5.14.
Election by plurality.
The person receiving a plurality of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected.
Sec. 5.15.
Other provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the city council shall, by ordinance, prescribe such rules and regulations it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under the Georgia Election Code.
Sec. 5.20. - Removal of officers.
(a)
The mayor, councilmembers, or other appointed officers provided for in this Charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the causes provided in Title 45 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
Removal of an officer pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished one of the following methods:
(1)
Following a hearing at which an impartial panel shall render a decision. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the mayor and/or city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten (10) days after the service of such written notice. The mayor and/or city council shall provide by ordinance for the manner in which such hearings shall be held. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Lowndes County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Lowndes County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the City of Hahira.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Sec. 6.10. - Taxation and various fees.
Sec. 6.11.
Property taxes.
The city council may assess, levy and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
Sec. 6.11.01.
Millage rate.
The mayor and city council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date and the time period within which such taxes must be paid.
Sec. 6.12.
Occupation taxes and regulatory fees.
Sec. 6.12.01.
Occupation and business taxes.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by law. The city council may classify businesses, occupations or professions for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and may compel the payment of such taxes as provided in section 6.17.
Sec. 6.12.02.
Regulatory fees; permits.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to require businesses or practitioners doing business within this city to obtain a permit for such activity from the city and pay a regulatory fee for such permit as provided by general law. Such fees, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in section 6.17.
Sec. 6.13.
Franchises.
(a)
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, electric membership corporations, cable television and other telecommunications companies, gas companies, transportation companies and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book kept by the clerk. The city council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
(b)
If no franchise agreement is in effect, the city council has the authority to impose a tax on gross receipts for the use of this city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, electric membership corporations, cable television and other telecommunications companies, gas companies, transportation companies and other similar organizations.
Sec. 6.14.
Service charges.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, assessments, and tolls for sewers, sanitary and health services, or any other services provided or made available within and without the corporate limits of the city. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.17.
Sec. 6.15.
Special assessments.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in section 6.17.
Sec. 6.16.
Construction; other taxes and fees.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax or fee allowed now or hereafter by law, and the specific mention of any right, power or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in anyway the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 6.17.
Collection of delinquent taxes.
The city council, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under sections 6.11 through 6.16 by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi.fa.'s; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed; revoking city permits for failure to pay any city taxes or fees; and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Sec. 6.20. - Borrowing.
Sec. 6.21.
General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter or the laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6.22.
Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program or venture for which they were issued.
Sec. 6.23.
Short-term loans.
The city may obtain short-term loans and must repay such loans not later than December 31 of each year, unless otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 6.24.
Lease-purchase contracts.
The city may enter into multiyear lease, purchase or lease purchase contracts for the acquisition of goods, materials, real and personal property, services, and supplies provided the contract terminates without further obligation on the part of the municipality at the close of the calendar year in which it was executed and at the close of each succeeding calendar year for which it may be renewed. Contracts must be executed in accordance with the requirements of section 36-60-13 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
Sec. 6.30. - Accounting and budgeting.
Sec. 6.31.
Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency and activity of the city government unless otherwise provided by state or federal law.
Sec. 6.32.
Preparation of budgets.
The city council shall provide an ordinance on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget, a capital improvement plan and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content and form of such budgets and plans.
Sec. 6.33.
Submission of operating budget to city council.
On or before a date fixed by the city council but not later than 90 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor and city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the mayor containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget, and such other pertinent comments and information. The operating budget and the capital budget hereinafter provided for, the budget message, and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
Sec. 6.34.
Action by city council on budget.
(a)
The city council may amend the operating budget proposed; except, that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year, and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The city council by ordinance shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the 15th day of December of each year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity as set out in the budget preparation ordinance adopted pursuant to section 6.32.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable.
Sec. 6.35.
Tax levies.
The city council shall levy by ordinance such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinances shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of this city.
Sec. 6.36.
Changes in appropriations.
The city council by ordinance may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget, at any regular meeting, special or emergency meeting called for such purpose, but any additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unexpended surplus.
Sec. 6.37.
Capital budget.
(a)
On or before the date fixed by the city council but no later than 90 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor and city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed capital improvements plan with a recommended capital budget containing the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The mayor and city council shall have power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed plan and proposed budget. The mayor and city council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital budget, except to meet a public emergency as provided in section 2.34.03.
(b)
The city council shall adopt by ordinance the final capital budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the 15th day of December of each year. No appropriation provided for in a prior capital budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, the mayor and city manager may submit amendments to the capital budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance of the mayor and city council.
Sec. 6.38.
Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted auditing principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this Charter. Copies of annual audit reports shall be available at printing costs to the public.
Sec. 6.40. - Procurement and property management.
Sec. 6.41.
Contracting procedures.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(a)
It is in writing;
(b)
It is drawn by or submitted to and reviewed by the city attorney; and
(c)
It is made or authorized by the mayor and city council and such approval is entered in the city council journal of proceedings pursuant to section 2.33.
Sec. 6.42.
Centralized purchasing.
The mayor and city council shall by ordinance prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
Sec. 6.43.
Sale and lease of city property.
(a)
The mayor and city council may sell and convey, or lease any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by law.
(b)
The mayor and city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and city manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cutoff or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the mayor and city manager to sell and convey said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners where such sale and conveyance facilitates the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property. Included in the sales contract shall be a provision for the rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley or public place. Each abutting property owner shall be notified of the availability of the property and given the opportunity to purchase said property under such terms and conditions as set out by ordinance. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 7.10. - Bonds for officials.
The officers and employees of this city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the mayor and/or city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by law.
Sec. 7.20. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this Charter are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
Sec. 7.30. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel or offices as may be provided by the city council.
Sec. 7.40. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this Charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
Sec. 7.50. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this Charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this Charter unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this Charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Sec. 7.60. - Effective date.
This Charter shall become effective on September 1, 2010.
