ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-131. - Personnel policies.
The mayor and council shall adopt personnel policies and rules governing city employees from time to time.
(Code 1985, § 2-71; Code 2006, § 2-141)
Secs. 2-132—2-160. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MAYOR

Sec. 2-161. - General authority.
The mayor shall require the faithful performance of all administrative duties.
(Code 1985, § 2-36; Code 2006, § 2-161)
Sec. 2-162. - Duties.
The mayor shall have the following duties:
(1)
Charter. To carry out his responsibilities under the city Charter;
(2)
Appointment of standing committees. To appoint at the first meeting each year, or as soon thereafter as expedient, standing committees for that year; but the mayor may, at any time, alter the committees and make such changes as the interest of the city may require;
(3)
Dismissal, suspension, and discipline of officers and employees. To dismiss, suspend or discipline for cause all officers and employees under his control, provided that for the purposes of this section, the term "cause" shall be construed to mean:
a.
Negligence or inefficiency in performing the duties of the position held;
b.
Unfitness to perform assigned duties;
c.
Insubordination;
d.
Misconduct;
e.
Conduct reflecting discredit on the department;
f.
Failure to report for work without justifiable cause;
g.
Chronic absenteeism; or
h.
Political activity in violation of city regulations;
(4)
Preparation of annual report. To prepare and present to the council an annual report of the city's affairs including a summary of reports of department heads, and such other reports as the council shall require; and
(5)
Executing legal documents. To sign and execute all contracts, deeds and bonds of the city duly authorized by the mayor and council.
(Code 1985, § 2-37; Code 2006, § 2-162)
Sec. 2-163. - Investigations.
The mayor may investigate and examine or inquire into, either by himself or by any officer or person designated for the purpose by him, the affairs or operation of any department, including the power to employ consultants and professional counsel when so authorized by the council to aid in such investigations, examinations or inquiries.
(Code 1985, § 2-38; Code 2006, § 2-163)
Secs. 2-164—2-194. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-195. - Appointment; qualifications.
The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city council, and shall serve until a successor is appointed and has qualified. No person shall be so appointed unless he is a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and has been actively engaged in the practice of law for at least three years preceding his appointment.
(Code 1985, § 2-72(a); Code 2006, § 2-181)
Sec. 2-196. - Powers; duties.
The city attorney shall be the legal advisor and representative of the city and in such capacity shall:
(1)
Advise the council or its committees or any city officer, when thereto requested, upon all legal questions arising in the conduct of city business;
(2)
Prepare or revise ordinances when so requested by the council or any committee thereof, and keep this Code up-to-date and properly indexed;
(3)
Give his opinion upon any legal matter or question submitted to him by the council, or any of its committees, or by any city officer;
(4)
Prepare for execution all contracts and instruments to which the city is a party, and approve, as to form, all bonds required to be submitted to the city;
(5)
Prepare, when authorized by the council, all charges and complaints against, and appear in the recorder's court in the prosecution of, every person charged with a violation of this Code or of a city ordinance or of any regulations adopted under authority of the Charter, and see to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the city;
(6)
Defend any and all suits and actions at law or equity brought against the city, unless otherwise directed by the city council;
(7)
Make immediate report to the mayor and council of the outcome of any litigation in which the city has an interest;
(8)
Make an annual report to the mayor and council of all pending litigation in which the city has an interest and the status thereof;
(9)
Keep complete and accurate records of the following, which records shall forever remain the property of the city:
a.
All suits in which the city had or has an interest, giving the names of the parties, the nature of the action, the disposition of the case or its status, if pending, and the briefs of the counsel; and
b.
All written opinions prepared by the city attorney and all certificates or abstracts of titles furnished by him to the city, or any department or official thereof; and
(10)
Render such other legal services as may be required by the mayor or council.
(Code 1985, § 2-72(c); Code 2006, § 2-183)
Sec. 2-197. - Compensation.
The city attorney shall submit to the council a monthly bill for his services, itemizing the type of work performed for the city and the number of hours engaged in each type of work during the month.
(Code 1985, § 2-72(d); Code 2006, § 2-184)
Secs. 2-198—2-219. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CITY CLERK

Sec. 2-220. - Election.
The city council shall, at its first regular meeting after election and qualification, elect a city clerk.
(Code 1985, § 2-51; Code 2006, § 2-201)
Sec. 2-221. - Bond.
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the city clerk shall give a good and sufficient bond, payable to the city, such bond to be fixed and approved by the city council.
(Code 1985, § 2-52; Code 2006, § 2-202)
Sec. 2-222. - Duties as city clerk.
The city clerk shall have the following duties in his capacity as city clerk:
(1)
To attend all meetings of the city council;
(2)
To keep correct and full minutes of the proceedings of the city council, together with all ordinances and resolutions passed by it, in a properly indexed book or register kept for that purpose;
(3)
To receive all applications or petitions made to the city and to place them before the mayor and council at the meeting of council next succeeding the receipt thereof;
(4)
To issue all licenses, and keep a record thereof, and all badges and permits authorized by the council;
(5)
To be the custodian of the city seal and affix its impression on documents whenever required; and
(6)
To carefully preserve the records and documents belonging to the city which are not assigned to the custody of some other office, and to maintain a proper index to all such records and documents so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had.
(Code 1985, § 2-53; Code 2006, § 2-203)
Sec. 2-223. - Duties as treasurer.
The city clerk shall have the following duties in his capacity as city treasurer:
(1)
To receive all money due the city council, including taxes, and pay out the same only upon orders passed by the mayor and council;
(2)
To keep a book of accounts showing all money received on behalf of the city and the source and disposition thereof; which book shall be open for inspection by the public and city councilmembers;
(3)
To maintain a uniform system of accounts and keep such other records and accounts as may be required by statute or ordinance; and
(4)
To furnish the council with quarterly statements detailing all receipts and payments of funds for the quarter.
(Code 1985, § 2-54; Code 2006, § 2-204)
State Law reference— Inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 15-18-70; budgets and accounts, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-224—2-254. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - CITY MANAGER

Sec. 2-255. - Appointment; qualifications.
The mayor, with the advice and consent of city council, shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term. Said city manager shall be chosen by said mayor and council on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to actual experience in, or knowledge of, the accepted practice in respect to the office of city manager.
(Code 2006, § 2-221)
Sec. 2-256. - Removal from office.
The mayor and council may remove the city manager at any time by a majority vote, but such removal shall be done only after a hearing on specified charges before said mayor and council.
(Code 2006, § 2-222)
Sec. 2-257. - Duties.
(a)
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city and serve as the chief police advisor to the mayor and council. He shall be responsible for the efficiency of each department of the city government. To that end, said city manager is hereby authorized and directed to perform the following duties:
(1)
Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the city, suspend or remove all officers and employees of the city, except as otherwise provided by the city Charter or by law and except as he may authorize the head of a department of office to appoint, suspend or remove subordinates in such department or office. Nothing herein contained shall be construed as giving the city manager the right to appoint, suspend or remove the city auditor and the city attorney, or either of them.
(2)
Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the mayor and council, together with a message describing the important features of said budget and be responsible for the administration of said budget after adoption.
(3)
Prepare and submit to the mayor and council as of the end of the fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city for the preceding year.
(4)
Keep the mayor and council advised of the financial condition and future needs of the city and make such recommendations, as he may deem desirable.
(5)
Recommend to the mayor and council a standard schedule of pay for each appointive office and position in the city service, including minimum, intermediate, and maximum rates.
(6)
Recommend to the mayor and council from time to time adoption of such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the community or the improvement of administrative services.
(7)
Develop long-range and short-range plans for city operations.
(8)
Consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments or units under his jurisdiction with the approval of the mayor and council.
(9)
Attend all meetings of the mayor and council unless excused therefrom and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before said mayor and council. The city manager shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the mayor and council.
(10)
Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies, and equipment for which funds are provided in the budget; let contracts necessary for the operation or maintenance of city services in amounts as provided by the mayor and council by ordinance; receive sealed bids for purchases or contracts in amounts as provided by said mayor and council on the advantages or disadvantages of contract and bid proposals. No purchase shall be made, contract let, or obligation incurred for any item or service which exceeds the current budget appropriation without a supplemental appropriation by the mayor and council. No contract for new construction shall be let except by the mayor and council except as may be provided by ordinance. The city manager may issue rules governing purchasing procedures within the administrative organization as the mayor and council may approve.
(11)
See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced.
(12)
Investigate the affairs of the city or any department or division thereof. Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the administration of the government of the city, and in regard to service maintained by the public utilities in the city, and see that all franchises, permits, and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed.
(13)
Devote his entire time to the discharge of his official duties.
(14)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and council not inconsistent with the constitution, any applicable general or local laws, the city Charter, or city ordinances. Such other powers and duties may be given to the city manager only at a regular meeting of the mayor and council or at a special meeting where the mayor and each councilmember shall have been given notice of said special meeting and the purpose thereof.
(b)
Neither the mayor or any councilmember shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or the removal from, office by the city manager or any of his subordinates or, in any manner, take part in the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative services of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the mayor and council shall deal with the administrative service solely through the city manager and neither the mayor nor any councilmember shall give orders to any subordinates of the city manager, either publicly or privately.
(Code 2006, § 2-223)
Sec. 2-258. - Compensation.
The city manager shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council shall fix from time to time by ordinance or resolution.
(Code 2006, § 2-224)
Sec. 2-259. - Vacancies; acting city manager.
Any vacancy in the office of the city manager shall be filled within 90 days after the effective date of such vacancy. The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to do all acts authorized for the city manager during such vacancy. The mayor and council shall further have the right and power to appoint an acting city manager who shall have all the duties of the city manager and who may act while the office of city manager is vacant.
(Code 2006, § 2-225)
Secs. 2-260—2-281. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - CITY ENGINEER

Sec. 2-282. - Appointment.
The city engineer shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city council, and shall serve until a successor is appointed and has qualified.
(Code 1985, § 2-73(a); Code 2006, § 2-241)
Sec. 2-283. - Oath.
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the city engineer shall take the oath prescribed by this chapter for city officers.
(Code 1985, § 2-73(b); Code 2006, § 2-242)
Sec. 2-284. - Duties.
The city engineer shall advise the council and city officials on all engineering matters referred to him and shall, from time to time as required by the mayor or council, make reports regarding public improvement and repairs of streets, bridges and sidewalks, and shall prepare such other reports as the mayor or council may request. He shall keep accurate maps, plats and records of all public works, lands or property owned by the city, and shall perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him from time to time by the mayor or council.
(Code 1985, § 2-73(c); Code 2006, § 2-243)
Secs. 2-285—2-301. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS

Sec. 2-302. - Composition.
The department of public works shall consist of the director of public works, who shall be the head of the department, and all officers and employees assigned thereto by the mayor or council.
(Code 1985, § 2-74(a); Code 2006, § 2-261)
Sec. 2-303. - Appointment of director.
The director of public works shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of city council, and shall have control and supervision over all officers and employees assigned to the department, subject to the control of the mayor.
(Code 1985, § 2-74(b); Code 2006, § 2-262)
Sec. 2-304. - Duties of director.
The director of public works shall have the following duties:
(1)
To provide for and supervise the care, maintenance, construction and extension of all streets, sidewalks, street gutters and drains, alleys and public ways;
(2)
To have charge of and be responsible for the care, maintenance and operation of the city water distribution system, the sanitary sewer system and disposal plant and the street lighting system;
(3)
To have charge of and supervision over all public property of the city, including all parks, parkways, playgrounds, municipal cemeteries, buildings and utilities not assigned to some other department or officer;
(4)
To have charge of the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse;
(5)
To have charge of and be responsible for the condition of all motor vehicles and other equipment of the city, and of all buildings or places in which the same are housed or kept;
(6)
To be the custodian of all tools, equipment and other personal property belonging to the city and not assigned to the care of any other public officer of the city; and
(7)
To perform such additional duties as may be assigned to him from time to time by the mayor.
(Code 1985, § 2-74(c); Code 2006, § 2-263)
Secs. 2-305—2-326. - Reserved.
