Chapter 26 - ELECTIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 26-1. - Election officials.
The mayor and council shall by resolution annually appoint a municipal election superintendent, election managers, registrars, absentee ballot clerk and any other officials as are necessary, all of whom shall exercise those powers and duties set forth in the Georgia Municipal Election Code (O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
(Code 1980, § 2-2-1)
Editor's note— The Georgia Municipal Election Code (O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.) requires the city to make provision for the following matters:
(1)
Payment of expenses of elections, and other matters, §§ 21-3-8, 21-3-37, 21-3-99, 21-3-162.
(2)
Voting machine procedures, § 21-3-227 et seq.
(3)
Selecting polling places, § 21-3-163.
(4)
Compensation for rent, heat, etc., for polling place, § 21-3-166.
(5)
Conduct of elections, § 21-3-30.
(6)
Appointment of managers, § 21-3-32.
(7)
Vote recorders; tabulating machines, § 21-3-251.
(8)
Applications for absentee ballots, § 21-3-283.
Sec. 26-2. - Voter registration deadline.
The deadline for registration of voters in city elections shall be as set forth in the Georgia Municipal Election Code (O.C.G.A.) § 21-3-123(a).
(Code 1980, § 2-2-2; Ord. of 9-2-97)
State Law reference— Voter registration, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-120 et seq.
Sec. 26-3. - Notice of candidacy; filing dates.
Notices of candidacy shall be filed by candidates for offices of the governing authority as set forth in the Georgia Municipal Election Code (O.C.G.A.) § 21-3-91(a)(1)—(3).
(Code 1980, § 2-2-3; Ord. of 9-2-97)
State Law reference— Filing notice of candidacy, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-91.
Sec. 26-4. - Qualification fees.
The qualification fee for candidates filing a notice of candidacy in any general or special election shall be as set forth in the Georgia Municipal Election Code (O.C.G.A.) § 21-3-90. The fees shall be received by the municipal election superintendent at the time of filing the notice of candidacy and paid over to the city.
(Code 1980, § 2-2-4; Ord. of 7-5-94, § 2-2-4; Ord. of 9-6-94, § 2-2-4; Ord. of 9-2-97)
State Law reference— Qualification fees, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-90.
Sec. 26-5. - Challenge of name on electors' list.
(a)
Any elector of the city desiring to challenge the right of registration of any person whose name appears upon the electors' list shall appear before a registrar on or before election day and state the grounds for the challenge, in writing. The registrar shall notify the challenged elector and provide him with an opportunity to answer the challenge. If the registrar does not find persuasive evidence for sustaining the challenge, the challenged elector shall be allowed to cast a challenged ballot, which shall be verified or discarded by the mayor and council.
(b)
An elector of the city whose right to vote is challenged at the poll shall be allowed to cast a challenged ballot, which shall be verified or discarded by the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 2-2-5; Ord. of 9-6-94, § 2-2-5)
State Law reference— Challenges by other electors, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-125.
Sec. 26-6. - Polling places.
Polling places shall be as fixed from time to time by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Code 1980, § 2-2-6; Ord. of 9-6-94, § 2-2-6)
State Law reference— Polling places, O.C.G.A. § 21-3-163.
Sec. 26-7. - Petition to contest results.
(a)
A petition to contest the result of a primary or election shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court having jurisdiction within five days after the official consolidation of the returns of that particular office or question and certification thereof by the election official having responsibility for taking such action under this chapter or within five days after the official consolidation and certification of the returns of that particular office or question by the election official having responsibility for taking such action under this chapter following a recount pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-3-405 and shall allege:
(1)
The contestant's qualification to institute the contest.
(2)
The contestant's desire to contest the result of such primary or election and the name of the nomination, office or question involved in the contest.
(3)
The name of the defendant.
(4)
The name of each person who was a candidate at such primary or election for such nomination or office in the case of a contest involving same.
(5)
Each ground of contest.
(6)
The date of the official certification of the result in dispute.
(7)
The relief sought.
(8)
Such other facts as are necessary to provide a full, particular and explicit statement of the cause of contest.
(b)
The state election board shall be served with a copy of the petition, as provided in subsection (a) of this section, by serving it on the chairman thereof, by mailing a copy to the chairman by certified or registered mail; and a certificate that such service has been made shall be filed by the plaintiff or his attorney.
(c)
When an error in the counting of votes is alleged as a ground of contest, it is sufficient for the contestant to state generally that he believes that error was committed in the counting of the votes cast for the filling of the nomination or office in dispute, or for or against the question in dispute, in one or more specified precincts; and it shall not be necessary for the contestant to offer evidence to substantiate such allegation. If a recount of the votes cast in any precinct shall change the result in dispute, any aggrieved litigant may require a recount of the votes affecting such result, which were cast in any other precinct, by amending his pleadings and requesting such relief.
(d)
The petition shall be verified by the affidavit of each contestant. Such affidavit shall be taken and subscribed before some person authorized by law to administer oaths and shall state that the contestant believes the facts alleged therein are true, that according to the best of his knowledge and belief the contested result of the primary or election is illegal and the return thereof incorrect, and that the petition to contest the same is made in good faith.
(e)
A statement of the grounds of contest shall not be rejected, nor the proceedings dismissed by any court, for want of form, if the grounds of contest are alleged with such certainty as will advise the defendant of the particular proceeding or cause for which the primary or election is contested.
(f)
Upon such petition being filed, the clerk of the superior court shall issue notice, in the form of special process directed to the sheriff of such county, requiring the defendant and any other person named in such petition as a candidate for such nomination or office, if any, to appear and answer such petition, on a day to be fixed in such notice, not more than ten days nor less than five days after the service of such notice. Such notice, with a copy of the petition attached, shall be served by the sheriff upon the defendant and any other person named therein in the same manner as petitions and process are served in other civil cases. On or before the day fixed in such notice, unless for good cause shown the presiding judge shall extend the time therefor, the defendant shall appear and answer such petition and may set up by way of answer or cross action any right of interest he may have or claim in such proceeding. Any other person who was a candidate at such primary or election for the nomination or office involved and upon whom notice was served as provided in this subsection shall be deemed a litigant to such proceeding and may set up by way of answer or cross action any right of interest or claim he may have.
(g)
After filing, any petition, cross action or answer may be amended with leave of the court so as to include the specification of additional grounds of contest, other relevant facts, or prayer for further relief. After each amendment, a reasonable time to respond shall be given by the court to any opposing litigant.
(h)
Contest procedures shall be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 21-3-420 et seq.
(Code 1980, § 2-2-7; Ord. of 9-6-94, § 2-2-7)
Sec. 26-8. - Plurality determines outcome.
The candidates for each respective office who receives the highest number of votes cast for such office by the electors of the city shall be elected to such office. In the event of a runoff election to break a tie vote, the same shall be held not earlier than the 14th day and not later than the 21st day from the day of the general election. The same rules and regulations for the general election are applicable for the runoff election.
(Ord. of 9-6-94, § 2-2-8)
