ARTICLE VI. - PROCEDURES FOR SITE PLAN APPROVAL AND CONSTRUCTION AND CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATION IN MR-MULTI-FAMILY, GC-GENERAL COMMERCIAL, OI-OFFICE INSTITUTION DISTRICT AND I-INDUSTRIAL

Sec. 40-91. - General requirements.
If a proposed development includes land that is zoned for other than single family residential the development shall be subject to all the requirements set forth in the zoning ordinance and shall be subject to all the requirements of these land development regulations, other applicable city regulations, and shall conform to goals and objectives established in the city's land use plan. The following principles and standards shall be observed:
(1)
Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in size and shape to the types of industrial development anticipated.
(2)
Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be provided in accordance with city specifications.
(3)
The city engineer may, with the approval of the city council, impose additional requirements regarding design and construction of streets, curbs, gutters, cart paths and sidewalks.
(4)
Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from a potential nuisance created by a proposed commercial or industrial development including provision of extra depth in parcels backing up to existing or potential residential development and provisions for permanently landscaped screening when necessary.
All new commercial structures within the overlay district of Senoia must conform to the historic nature of the city.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 601)
Sec. 40-92. - Site plan approval.
(a)
A developer shall submit to the city, at least 45 business days (excluding weekends and holidays) prior to a regularly scheduled planning commission meeting 12 copies of the site plan, meeting the specifications set out in section 40-93.
(b)
The city staff will review the site plan. If the site plan does not meet the requirements of this section, the city staff will return the plan to the developer for corrections. If the plan meets the requirements of section 40-93, site plan approval will be placed on the next available planning commission agenda three days prior to the meeting.
(c)
Results of the city staff's review will be presented, in writing, to the planning commission at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
(d)
The planning commission will review the site plan, taking into consideration the requirements of section 40-93 and the city staff report. During the meeting, the planning commission will discuss the results of their review with the developer and will, if necessary, make recommendations for improvements, modifications or changes.
The planning commission shall then vote to either approve or disapprove the site plan.
If the planning commission does not recommend approval of the site plan, the developer may resubmit with necessary changes, following the procedures set out in section 40-91.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 602; Ord. No. 22-07 , § 1, 10-17-2022)
Sec. 40-93. - Site plan specifications.
(a)
Name of development and streets.
(b)
Name, address and telephone number of property owner and developer.
(c)
Vicinity map showing the location of the proposal development in relation to surrounding development.
(d)
Location of property by land lot and district, graphic scale, north arrow, approximate total acreage, and date.
(e)
Contour lines based on sea level datum shall be included and shall be drawn at intervals of not more than two feet. Contour lines shall be based on field surveys or photogrammetric methods from aerial photographs, and the basis for the topographic contour shown shall be specified.
(f)
The location and widths of streets.
(g)
The location and size of any parcels of land to be set aside for park and playground use or other public use, or for the exclusive use of property owners on said property.
(h)
The zoning of the property to be developed and adjacent property.
(i)
The location of greenbelts and other areas to be landscaped.
(j)
Setback lines.
(k)
Location and size of building.
(l)
Height of building.
(m)
Parking area and number of spaces required and obtained.
(n)
Distance between buildings.
(o)
Use of building.
(p)
Location of sanitary sewage disposal if applicable.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 603)
Sec. 40-94. - Construction authorization.
(a)
Following approval of the final site plan, two copies of the final site plan, soil sedimentation and erosion control plan, hydrological study shall be submitted to and approved by the state and the city engineer prior to any defoliation or alteration of the site. Said plans shall be in compliance with all design standards and environment and land development regulations as adopted by Senoia, and shall include a grading plan and such other engineering documents as maybe required by the city engineer. The city engineer shall have ten working days to respond to requests for construction authorization.
(b)
Following approval of final engineering plans by the city and soil sedimentation and erosion control plans by the soil and water conservation service, a development permit will be issued by the city building department.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 604)
Secs. 40-95—40-110. - Reserved.
