ARTICLE IV. - PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVALS, CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATION OF SUBDIVISIONS AND MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 40-51. - General requirements.
If a proposed development includes land to be subdivided, the development shall be subject to all requirements for the Senoia Zoning Ordinance, these land development regulations, and all applicable codes, ordinances and regulations of the city. The proposed development shall be designed to conform to the goals and objectives of the city's comprehensive plan, including its future land use element.
The following general principles for subdivision design shall be observed:
Lot arrangement. Side lot lines shall be at right angles (90 degrees) to the public right-of-way on which the lot fronts, or project radially on curved rights-of-way. Each lot shall front upon a dedicated public right-of-way having a minimum width of not less than 50 feet.
Building lines. Building lines shall conform to the zoning ordinance requirements.
Double-frontage lots. Access (driveway curb cuts) to lots having frontage on two public streets shall be restricted to the interior street.
Sewer service. Individual septic systems shall not be permitted where public sanitary sewer is accessible to the building lot. For purposes of this chapter, where public sewer is available in a public right-of-way adjoining the property or in an easement touching upon the property at any point, or within 250 feet of either of the foregoing, access shall be deemed to exist. Where a public sewer connection can be extended through an easement across adjoining private property to an existing sewer line within 250 feet of the property boundary, it shall be the duty of the property owner to seek such easement and cause a connection to be made and the owner, at its cost, shall exercise its best efforts to secure the necessary easement, to be dedicated to the city for future maintenance. Owners shall coordinate with the city their efforts to obtain easements and for approval of the design and installation of the sewer connection. All dwellings and structures intended for human occupancy of at least four hours per day shall be connected to public sewer whenever such service is or becomes accessible, at the property owner's expense. When connecting to public sewer, septic tanks shall be removed or properly filled to prevent future usage or liability.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 400)
Sec. 40-52. - Conceptual plan approval procedure.
(a)
Conceptual plat acceptance. All applicants proposing developments that require a subdivision of land shall submit 15 copies of a conceptual plat to the city administrator. Plats must be submitted a minimum of 30 calendar days prior to the planning commission meeting at which such plat shall be considered. All plats shall be presented on a scaled drawing having a minimum dimension of 17 inches by 22 inches and at a scale no larger than one inch equals 100 feet. Plats shall depict all adjacent streets and proposed streets, public water and sewer services, all lots and the proposed use(s) and a general indication of the storm drainage system. Plats that do not comply with these informational requirements shall not be considered until resubmitted in compliance. The city administrator shall inform the applicant of such noncompliance, in writing, within one week of conceptual plat submittal.
(b)
Conceptual plat review. Conceptual plats shall be reviewed by the public works director, city engineer and city planner. Plats shall be evaluated for conformance with city zoning ordinance, this chapter, and comprehensive plan. A report prepared by the city engineer summarizing his findings and a report prepared by the city planner summarizing the findings of city staff shall be presented to planning commission one week prior to their regular meeting.
(c)
Conceptual plat approval. Planning commission shall consider conceptual plats, applying the purposes and intent of this chapter the goals ands objectives of the comprehensive plan and the City of Senoia Short Term Work Program and other public documents that indicate the timing and location of public improvements and services as relate to the proposed development. Planning commission shall forward a written record to mayor and council recommending approval of the conceptual plat upon a finding that the plat conforms to these parameters. The commission shall forward a recommendation of denial upon a finding that the plat fails to conform to these parameters, specifying the areas of nonconformance. The commission may enable the applicant to generate information deemed by the commission as essential to evaluating plat conformance.
Upon receipt of a recommendation by the planning commission, mayor and council shall place the conceptual plat on the agenda of a regularly scheduled meeting of city council. In evaluating the plat, mayor and council shall consider the findings of the city engineer and city planner, as contained in a written report, the recommendations of planning commission and the parameters presented in section 40-51. The mayor and council shall approve the conceptual plat upon a finding that the plat conforms to these parameters; alternately, the council shall deny the plat upon a finding that the plat does not so conform, specifying in writing the nature of the nonconformance. Conceptual plat approval shall expire within a period of six-months immediately following action by council should the applicant fail to submit a preliminary plat conforming to the requirements of section 40-56 and such approval shall have no force or effect.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 401)
Sec. 40-53. - Preliminary platting process.
(a)
Preliminary plat acceptance. No preliminary plat shall be accepted prior to approval of the conceptual plat. Applicants for preliminary plat approval shall submit 15 copies of preliminary plat to the city administrator. Plats must be submitted a minimum of 45 calendar days prior to the planning commission meeting at which such plat be considered. All plats shall be presented on a scaled drawing having a minimum dimension of 17 inches by 22 inches ands at a scale no larger than one inch equals 100 feet. Plats shall address all requirements of section 40-55. No plat shall be distributed for review prior to a finding by the city administrator that such plat conforms to these requirements; acceptance of a plat represents only such compliance and in no way constitutes plat approval. Applicants whose plat submittal fails to comply with these specifications shall be notified by the city administrator, in writing, of the nature of such noncompliance within 30 days of preliminary plat submittal.
(b)
Preliminary plat review. Preliminary plats shall be reviewed by the city administrator, city engineer and city planner. Plats shall be evaluated for conformance with this chapter, the applicable standards of the zoning ordinance, and the comprehensive plan. A report prepared by the city engineer summarizing his findings and a report prepared by the city planner summarizing the findings of city staff be presented to planning commission prior to their regular meeting.
(c)
Preliminary plat approval. Planning commission shall review preliminary plats, applying the minimum requirements of this chapter, the zoning ordinance, and the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan as well as other public documents that indicate the timing and location of public improvements and services as relate to the proposed development. Planning commission shall forward a written record to mayor and council recommending approval of the preliminary plat upon a finding that the plat conforms to these regulations, ordinances and plans. The commission shall forward a recommendation of denial upon a finding that the plat fails to so conform, specifying the areas of nonconformance. The commission may table consideration of a preliminary plat for a maximum period of 45 days for the purpose of enabling the applicant to generate information deemed by the commission as essential to evaluating plat conformance or to revise the plat such that conformance with the city regulations, ordinances and plans is achieved.
Planning commission may recommend approval of a preliminary plat subject to minor revisions as a condition of approval. However, in no event shall a plat be recommended for approval by the planning commission prior to submittal of the written comments of the city engineer and city planner.
Upon receipt of a recommendation by the planning commission, mayor and council shall place the preliminary plat on the agenda of a regularly scheduled meeting of the city council. In evaluating the plat, mayor and council shall consider the findings of the city engineer and city planner, as contained in a written report, the recommendations of planning commission, purposed and intent of this chapter, the zoning ordinance, and the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan as well as other pubic documents that indicate the timing and location of public improvements and services. The mayor and council shall approve the preliminary plat upon a finding that the plat conforms to applicable city regulations, ordinances and plans; city council shall deny the plat upon a finding that the plat does not so conform, specifying in writing the nature of the nonconformance.
(d)
Preliminary plat approval expiration. Preliminary plat approval shall expire within a period of one year immediately following action by council should the applicant fail to submit construction drawings acceptable to the city engineer and consistent with acceptable engineering practices, and such approval shall have no force or effect. Plat approval shall also expire within a period of six months of approval of construction drawings should the applicant fail to obtain a land disturbing permit.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 402)
Sec. 40-54. - Construction authorization.
(a)
Approval by city engineer. Following approval of the preliminary plat and prior to the issuance of any permit for land disturbance or any removal of trees or other vegetation from the platted site, two sets of construction drawings, together with evidence of an approved soil erosion and sedimentation control plan in accordance with Chapter 7 of Title 12, O.C.G.A. (or evidence of the project's exemption therefrom), shall be submitted to the city engineer for review and approval. Said plans must comply with all city design and environmental standards. The submission must include a grading plan, profile of streets, storm sewers and drainage facilities, water and sanitary sewer lines and facilities, required easements, and other supporting documents as may be required by the city engineer, including but not limited to a hydrological study. All plans shall clearly delineate the limits of construction activity upon the site. The city engineer shall have 30 days in which to complete his review and comments. Any findings of noncompliance shall be given the applicant in writing, with a reasonable period in which to make corrections and respond.
(b)
Performance bonding. The completion of all required drainage and retention facilities, grading, water and sewer utilities, street base and curbing construction, and other public improvements shall be secured by a cash deposit, escrow account, commercial surety bond, irrevocable letter or credit (UCC form) or other legally binding instrument of financial security in an amount equal to 110 percent of the projected costs of completion. The city engineer shall determine the projected cost of completion of these improvements. Prior to issuance of any permits, financial security in a form acceptable to the city shall be deposited with the city administrator. Said financial security may be withdrawn by the city and refunded to the developer in direct proportion to the amount of site work completed as approved by the city engineer, provided that sufficient security is retained to complete satisfactory installation of all remaining required improvements.
(c)
Permit issuance. Following approval of construction plans and specifications, in writing, by the city engineer, the posting of financial security, and evidence of compliance with all other requirements of state law and city ordinance, the city administrator shall issue a land disturbance permit for the purposes of site clearance, grading and preparation for development. Upon satisfactory completion of the entire site preparatory work, including proper installation of all required erosion and sedimentation control measures, drainage facilities, and tree protection, based upon inspection by the city, the city administrator shall issue the development permit.
(d)
Authority to proceed. Upon receipt of a development permit, the developer may proceed to construct the subdivision or development project.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 403)
Sec. 40-55. - Preliminary plat specifications.
The preliminary plat shall be clearly drawn at a scale of not less than 100 feet to one inch and shall contain the following:
(1)
Proposed name of subdivision, proposed street names, and name and address of developer, including telephone numbers where developer may be contacted at all times.
(2)
Name, address and telephone number of the property owner of record, if different from developer.
(3)
Date of survey, north point and graphic scale, source of datum, date of plat drawing, and space for revision dates.
(4)
Preliminary certificates and statements specified in section 40-56.
(5)
Vicinity map showing the location of the proposed subdivision in relation to surrounding development.
(6)
Location of property by land lot and district, tax map block and tract reference, and acreage within each tract.
(7)
The proposed layout, including the location of property lines, lot lines, existing and proposed easements, burial grounds, rights-of-way, utilities, watercourses, floodplains, wetlands, existing wooded areas, and location, width, and names of all existing, platted or proposed streets or other pubic rights-of-ways within or immediately adjacent to the tract being developed, including widths. Lot and block numbers shall be assigned to facilitate identifying each parcel or sub-parcel.
(8)
The approximate location and size of all parcels of land proposed to be set aside for recreation sue, open space or conservation lands, or other public use. If appropriate, common space within the development shall be designated on the preliminary plat.
(9)
Location of sanitary sewage disposal areas, if applicable.
(10)
The zoning affixed to the property to be developed.
(11)
The location of areas to be landscaped.
(12)
The name of any previously platted subdivision(s) within the boundaries of the land platted.
(13)
Contour lines based on sea level datum shall be included and drawn at intervals no more than two feet. Contour lines shall be based on field surveys or photogrammetric methods from aerial photography, and the basis for contour delineation shall be noted on the plat.
(14)
Natural features within the proposed subdivision, including drainage channels, bodies of water, wetlands, floodplains, steep slopes, and other environmentally sensitive areas or features. Watershed protection buffer boundaries shall be designated as appropriate. Designation of 100-year flood hazard boundaries shall be based on independent study if FEMA flood study is unavailable. Statutory buffers of not less than 25 feet from the banks of all state waters shall be shown in which no land disturbing activity shall occur.
(15)
Cultural features within and adjacent to the proposed subdivision should also be indicated.
(16)
Phasing or staging of development, as proposed by the developer.
(17)
Development schedule showing proposed completion dates.
(18)
If applicable, soil delineation by professional approved by Coweta County Health Department.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 404)
Sec. 40-56. - Preliminary plat certificates and statements.
Each preliminary plat shall carry the following certificates printed or stamped on the face thereof:
(1)
Certificate of design.
I hereby certify that the design and layout of the proposed lots, blocks, streets and other planned features shown on this Preliminary Plat have been prepared by me or under my direct supervision in compliance with Georgia law and all requirements of the City of Senoia, Georgia.
EXPAND
Date:________ By:___________
Name:
No.
  This certificate must be signed and sealed by a professional engineer, architect, or landscape architect licensed in the State of Georgia.
(2)
Certificate of preliminary plat approval.
All requirements of the Senoia Land Development Ordinance relative to the preparation and submission of this Preliminary Plat having been fulfilled, approval of this plat is hereby granted by the Mayor and Council.
This _____ day of _______, 20___.
By:___________
Mayor
Reviewed and Approved by:
___________
City Administrator
___________
City Planner
___________
City Engineer
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 405)
Sec. 40-57. - Subdivision and street names; street numbers.
(a)
The proposed name of each new subdivision and any required street names shall be submitted to the city development director. Guidelines for selecting acceptable names are as follows:
(1)
Names duplicating or phonetically similar to existing names will be rejected. Furthermore, street names within the same development cannot be replicated by switching the street type, e.g. Main Street, Main Drive, Main Court.
(2)
Developments choosing locational names that do not have a geographic or historic relationship to the area where the development will occur will be rejected; e.g. a development with the name Brown's Mill must have an approximate location to the Brown's Mill Battlefield Historic Site.
(3)
Due to sign-space limitation, use road names that do not exceed 15 characters in length (excluding the street type).
(4)
Names must be easy to pronounce and should effect a positive connotation.
(5)
Double stree names are not favored and may be rejected; e.g. Deer Path Lane.
(6)
All street names must have an acceptable type; e.g. Road, Drive, Lane, Court.
(7)
Punctuation is not allowed; e.g. periods, hyphens, apostrophes.
(8)
Directional and numbers are not allowed; e.g. North Main Street, Four Corners Drive.
(9)
Names may incorporate the name of nearby cities if leading to such destination, e.g. Newnan Road.
(10)
Names should be pleasant sounding, appropriate and easy to read so that the public can communicate the name in an emergency situation.
(11)
A new road name should not begin with the name "New" or "Old" if the name has historically been in use or is found in the official street name index.
(12)
Where feasible, the name of the subdivision should be incorporated into the name of the primary entrance street in a way that is consistent with the other naming criteria listed herein.
(b)
The development director shall coordinate the names of streets and house numbers with the following Coweta County Departments; fire department, planning department, GIS, and E-911, and U.S. Post Office.
(c)
A development and street name index is maintained in the Coweta County E-911 office and can provide information on existing names; the index, along with an approved street type list, can be accessed online at http://www.coweta.ga.us.
(d)
Approved development and street names must be denoted on all development plans (whether subdivision or site plan) prior to the final plan approval. Only plans reflecting acceptable street names placed on the particular streets they represent will receive approval.
(e)
Subdivision/project and street name(s) may be reserved for two years by written certificate of the development director, but such certification shall expire two years after acceptance and is not renewable. However, once a preliminary plat is approved, names shall remain reserved for the life of the development unless the development is determined abandoned by the development director. A subdivision/project can be declared abandoned because of inactive progress to file a final plat for recording.
(Ord. No. 19-01 , § 1, 2-4-2018)
Secs. 40-58—40-70. - Reserved.
