ARTICLE V. - PROBATIONARY AND REGULAR STATUS

Sec. 50-81. - Probationary status.
Each applicant appointed to a position shall be designated as a probationary employee for a period of six months (police officer one year) from the date of employment, or for a period not exceeding one year if such extension is recommended by the department head and approved by the city manager. During the probationary period, close observation of conduct and capacity of all probationers shall be made by department heads, and if it is found from such observation or otherwise that probationer fails to meet all requirements satisfactorily, he/she shall be notified in writing of the reasons for such failure and dropped from the regular service. Probationary employees may not receive vacation leave accrued during their probation period if they resign or are terminated.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-82. - Regular status.
At least 15 working days prior to the expiration of the probationary period, the department head shall notify the personnel officer in writing whether or not the employee has satisfactorily completed his probationary period. If the employee's work record or attitude is not deemed at an acceptable level to warrant recommendation for career status, the department head may recommend dismissal or extension of the probationary period for a specified period of time not to exceed six months. If a probationary employee fails to qualify for regular status at the end of an extended probationary period, their appointment shall be terminated and they shall be removed from government service.
The city manager shall review recommendations from departments and shall approve or reject such recommendations. The effective date of regular status for original or promotional appointments shall be as designated by the department head and city manager. Never shall an employee be assumed to have attained regular status without recommendation of the appointing department and approval of the city manager.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Secs. 50-83—50-90. - Reserved.
