Chapter 62 - SECONDHAND GOODS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 62-1—62-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - JUNKYARDS

Sec. 62-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Junk means and includes, but is not limited to, wrecked, abandoned or inoperative (whether repairable or not) motor vehicles, old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber, debris, or waste; or iron, steel and other scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials.
Junkyard means any establishment maintained or used for storing, buying or selling junk; and the term shall include, but not be limited to, garbage dumps and sanitary fills. For purposes of this article, an establishment shall be presumed to be a junkyard if five or more inoperative motor vehicles are maintained for more than 45 days, except vehicles being held pursuant to lawful impoundment by any law enforcement agency; however, this presumption may be rebutted.
Motor vehicle means every vehicle which is self-propelled, except trackless trolleys, which are classified as streetcars.
(Ord. of 2-10-84, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 62-32. - Generally.
(a)
No junkyard shall be created or maintained within the unincorporated areas of the county.
(b)
This article shall not apply to any junkyard in existence on February 10, 1984.
(c)
Any junkyard established after February 10, 1984, is declared to be a public nuisance and may be forthwith removed, obliterated or abated by the means set forth in section 62-33.
(Ord. of 2-10-84, § 2)
Sec. 62-33. - Abatement.
(a)
Any person affected by a junkyard established and maintained in violation of this article, or the county attorney, may file an appropriate action in the superior court of this county to enjoin any person from maintaining a junkyard in violation of this article.
(b)
Upon determination by the court that such junkyard does not comply with the provisions of this article, and is not subject to any exception to this article, the owner of such junkyard shall, within 30 days of such order, remove the junkyard; and in default thereof, the commissioner may forthwith remove, obliterate or abate the junkyard and may go on private property to accomplish such purpose.
(c)
The commissioner may then submit, by registered or certified mail, a statement of expenses for such removal, obliteration or abatement to the person owning or operating such junkyard; and if payment is not made to the commissioner within 60 days of receipt thereof, such amount may be collected by an action at law.
(Ord. of 2-10-84, § 3)
Sec. 62-34. - Exception.
Nothing contained in this article shall be deemed to apply to any junkyard located within the premises of any dealer who is lawfully registered and licensed pursuant to the terms of the Used Motor Vehicle Dismantlers, Rebuilders, and Salvage Dealers Registration Act (O.C.G.A. ch. 43-48).
(Ord. of 2-10-84, § 4)
