Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - HOTEL TAX[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this subpart is 2016 Ga. Laws (Act No. 414), page 3687. Amendments are shown in history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history indicates that the provisions are derived from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. The title of the act and enacting clause has been editorially omitted. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Authorized.
Pursuant to the authority of subsection (b) of Code Section 48-13-51 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b)], the governing authority of the City of Emerson is authorized to levy an excise tax at a rate not to exceed eight percent of the charge for the furnishing for value to the public of any room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished by any person or legal entity licensed by, or required to pay business or occupation taxes to, the municipality for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly or periodically furnished for value.
Sec. 2. - Resolution.
The enactment of this Act is subsequent to the adoption of Resolution No. 2016-002 of the governing authority of the City of Emerson on February 22, 2016, which specifies the subsequent tax rate, identifies the projects or tourism product development purposes, and specifies the allocation of proceeds.
Sec. 3. - Use of proceeds.
In accordance with the terms of such resolution adopted by the mayor and council of the City of Emerson:
(1)
In each fiscal year during which a tax is collected pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 48-13-51 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b)(2)], an amount equal to not less than 50 percent of the total amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent shall be expended for promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows by the destination marketing organization designated by the City of Emerson; provided, however, that the City of Emerson may exercise its option under paragraph (2) of subsection (e) of Code Section 48-13-51 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(e)(2)] to contract with an entity qualified under such provision; and
(2)
The remaining amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent which are not otherwise expended under paragraph (1) of this section shall be expended for tourism product development.
Sec. 4. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
