ARTICLE V. - PACKAGE BEER, MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE

Sec. 4-137. - Type of retail establishment.
No package beer, malt beverage or wine shall be sold at retail except in the following types of retail establishments, subject to such establishments holding a license to sell beer, malt beverages or wine (as applicable) by the package:
(1)
Package retailers who sell distilled spirits;
(2)
Establishments maintaining 80 percent of the floor space and storage area in a manner which is devoted principally to the retail sale of other products and located in zoning districts in which these establishments are permitted as a conforming use or in districts where existing establishments exist as a nonconforming use;
(3)
Supermarkets, as defined in section 4-1;
(4)
Brew pubs or eating establishments licensed to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises which sell wine and/or beer by the package for off-premises consumption in accordance with the provisions set forth in subsection 4-49(b); provided, however, package sales shall be limited to wine and beer only. Brew pubs or eating establishments seeking to sell wine or beer by the package must obtain a separate license to do so and must meet the distance requirements for each license.
(Code 1989, § 3-70; Ord. No. 664, § 1, 4-16-2012; Ord. No. 722, § 4, 3-21-2016; Ord. No. 856 , § 5, 5-1-2023)
Sec. 4-138. - Hours of sale.
Retail package licensees licensed to sell packaged malt beverages, beer and wine may engage in the packaged sale of malt beverages, beer and wine only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and only between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. on Sunday. These hours are to be determined by the standard of time in effect at the time of the sale.
(Code 1989, § 3-71; Ord. No. 664, § 1, 4-16-2012)
Sec. 4-139. - Use of tags or labels to indicate prices.
Retailers shall indicate plainly, by tags or labels on the bottle or containers or on the shelf immediately below where the containers are placed, the prices of all beer, malt beverages and wine exposed or offered for sale.
(Code 1989, § 3-72; Ord. No. 664, § 1, 4-16-2012)
Sec. 4-140. - Regulations as to coin-operated or amusement machines, and regulations as to employees.
The provisions applicable to coin-operated or amusement machines applicable to retail establishments devoted to the retail sale of distilled spirits (section 4-117) and regulations as to employees applicable to retail package licenses licensed to sell packaged distilled spirits (section 4-119) are also applicable to retail establishments licensed to sell beer, malt beverages and wine.
(Code 1989, § 3-73; Ord. No. 664, § 1, 4-16-2012)
Sec. 4-141. - Growlers.
(a)
The sale of growlers in compliance with this article is authorized for those certain types of establishments designated in section 4-137(1), (3) and (4), which are licensed to sell malt beverages, but not distilled spirits, by the package. The filling of growlers with malt beverage drawn from a tap on a barrel, cask, tank, or keg on the premises shall not constitute the breaking of a package as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26 or other provisions of this chapter. The term "growler" means a container made of a material customary to the industry provided that the container is capable of being sealed with a tamper-proof cap, top or other seal for the purpose of complying with open container laws, and further provided that the container does not exceed 68 ounces and is filled by a licensee or employee of the licensed establishment with malt beverage drawn from a barrel, cask, tank, or keg. Growlers may only be filled from barrels, casks, tanks, or kegs procured by the licensee from a person who is licensed or authorized to do business as a wholesaler under this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, in the case of a brew pub holding a license to sell malt beverages by the package, growlers may be filled from barrels, casks, tanks, or kegs of malt beverages manufactured on the licensed premises, subject to the barrel production limitation prescribed in section 4-188. Only professionally sanitized and sealed growlers may be filled and made available for retail sale. Each growler must be securely sealed and removed from the premises in its original sealed condition. Except as authorized in accordance with an ancillary tasting permit as hereinafter provided, consumption on the premises is strictly prohibited; however, this prohibition shall not apply with respect to sales pursuant to a license for consumption on the premises, provided that no filled growlers may be consumed on the premises.
(b)
The holder of a package malt beverage license, with or without a package wine license, but in no event with a package distilled spirits license, shall be eligible for an ancillary growler malt beverage tasting license to provide samples of growler malt beverages offered for sale to customers under the conditions set forth in this section. Growler malt beverage sampling shall be on limited occasions when a customer requests a sample of a growler malt beverage offered for sale within the premises, or in conjunction with growler malt beverage education classes and sampling designed to promote growler and malt beverage appreciation and education. Growler malt beverage tasting for customers shall only be conducted at a counter area constituting no more than ten percent of the entire floor area of the premises. Growler malt beverage sampling for customers shall be limited to no more than one time per day per customer for a period not to exceed two consecutive hours. Samples shall not exceed four ounces, and no customer shall consume more than 16 ounces in any two-hour period. Only the licensee or an employee shall open and handle unpackaged malt beverages, and samples shall only be poured by the licensee and/or an employee. No open growler container shall be removed from the licensed premises. Not more than two times per week for a period not to exceed two consecutive hours, the holder of an ancillary growler malt beverage tasting license may conduct educational classes and sampling for class participants. All conditions of sampling set forth in this section shall apply to such classes, except for the limitation on floor areas where the classes can be conducted. Growler malt beverage sampling and tasting is only permitted within the designated interior portion of the premises. The annual fee for an annual growler malt beverage tasting license shall be $50.00, and may be revised, by resolution of the mayor and council, from time to time.
(c)
The holder of a package malt beverage license, with or without a package wine license, but in no event with a package distilled spirit license, who is authorized to sell growlers and whose premises are located in the downtown district shall, in conjunction with city-sponsored special events within the downtown district, be authorized to sell malt beverages in 16-ounce plastic containers in the same manner as consumption on the premises licensees in the downtown district, except that such sales shall only take place outside the premises in a tent directly adjacent to the premises. The exact location and set-up of the tent shall be subject to the review of the director of community development, or his designee, for public safety compliance.
(Code 1989, § 3-74; Ord. No. 664, § 1, 4-16-2012; Ord. No. 679, § 14, 7-15-2013; Ord. No. 722, § 5, 3-21-2016; Ord. No. 784 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-26-2019)
Secs. 4-142—4-165. - Reserved.
