ARTICLE XVI. - SPECIAL PROVISIONS AND EXCEPTIONS WITHIN DOWNTOWN DISTRICT

Sec. 4-397. - General.
The provisions of this article are intended to set forth certain exceptions and provisions applicable only to licensees whose establishments are located within the downtown district (as hereinafter defined) holding licenses to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises. Except as specifically set forth in this article, all such licensees remain subject to all other provisions of the city's alcoholic beverage chapter.
(Code 1989, § 3-180; Ord. No. 658, § 1, 8-22-2011)
Sec. 4-398. - Minimum distance requirements within downtown district.
The minimum distance requirements for on-premises consumption establishments in the downtown district shall be 50 feet from all of the establishments and locations designated in section 4-17(a), and measured in accordance with the provisions set forth in section 4-17(b). For the purpose of distance requirements, the downtown district shall not be deemed to include establishments not physically located within the district.
(Code 1989, § 3-180.1; Ord. No. 668, § 1, 8-6-2012)
Sec. 4-399. - Waiver procedure and standards.
An establishment that desires to locate within the downtown district and cannot meet the distance requirements specified above may file an application for a waiver or reduction of the minimum distance requirements with the city council. The city council, after notice and a public hearing, may grant a waiver or reduction to the minimum distance requirements if it determines that the proposed variance will not substantially diminish the property value, nor alter the essential character of the area surrounding the site, and will not substantially interfere with or injure the rights of others whose property would be affected by the variance. The city council may also impose any conditions which it finds to be necessary to protect the best interest of the surrounding property of the city. Conditions may include, but not be limited to, the hours of operation, parking and landscaping requirements and, with respect to residentially zoned areas, whether the establishment is physically separated or well buffered from adjacent residentially zoned areas. A location that has been granted a waiver or reduction of distance by the city council shall not be required to obtain a new waiver or reduction of distance as a result in change of tenancy, ownership or management, unless a change in use occurs for a time period of 12 months or more.
(Code 1989, § 3-180.2; Ord. No. 668, § 1, 8-6-2012)
Sec. 4-400. - Definition of downtown district.
For the purpose of this article only, the downtown district is defined as follows: the area of the city bounded on the north by the northern right-of-way of Church Street, then traveling southward along the western right-of-way of Canton/Roswell Street to the intersection with Old Milton Parkway, then traveling along the northern right-of-way of Old Milton Parkway eastward to the intersection with State Route 9/Main Street, then traveling northward along the eastern boundary of State Route 9/Main Street to the southern right-of-way of Marietta Street, then by a line drawn to the east to the intersection of Haynes Bridge Road and Thompson Street, then northward along the western right-of-way of Haynes Bridge Road to the intersection of Academy Street, then proceeding westward along the southern right-of-way of Academy Street to the intersection of State Route 9/Main Street, there to travel northward along the western right-of-way of State Route 9/Main Street to the intersection with Church Street. For the purposes of this definition, any licensed establishment, the property of which abuts the described boundaries, shall be considered to be located within the district.
(Code 1989, § 3-181; Ord. No. 658, § 1, 8-22-2011; Ord. No. 694, § 2, 9-15-2014)
Sec. 4-401. - Outside consumption of alcoholic beverages permitted.
(a)
One drink on-street limit. Any establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises is authorized to dispense an alcoholic beverage in a paper or plastic cup, or other container other than a can, bottle, or glass, for removal from the premises; provided, however, that no establishment shall dispense to any person more than one such alcoholic beverage at a time for removal from the premises, and no person shall remove at one time more than one such alcoholic beverage from the licensed premises.
(b)
Size limited to a maximum of 16 ounces. No container in which an alcoholic beverage is dispensed and removed from the licensed premises shall exceed 16 fluid ounces in size. No person shall hold in possession on the streets and sidewalks, in parks and squares, or in other public places within the defined area any open alcoholic beverage container which exceeds 16 fluid ounces in size. Nothing set forth in this subsection shall be construed to permit the possession of open alcoholic beverages in any public place within the downtown district except as otherwise expressly authorized under this section.
(c)
Drinking from can, bottle, or glass prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or attempt to drink any alcoholic beverage from a can, bottle, or glass, or to possess in an open can, bottle, or glass any alcoholic beverage on the streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way, and parking lots, whether public or private.
(d)
Purchase from licensed premises within downtown district. Alcoholic beverages consumed pursuant to this provision must be purchased from a licensed premises within the downtown district.
(e)
Consumption limited to certain areas in downtown district. No alcoholic beverage purchased pursuant to this provision may be consumed outside of the downtown district, upon any sidewalk adjacent to a church, school or park (unless specifically authorized by the city in conjunction with a city event or other event authorized by the city) or upon any private property without the express written consent of the property owners.
(f)
Consumption limited to lawful hours of operation. No alcoholic beverage purchased pursuant to this provision shall be consumed except within the authorized hours of sale of the establishment where purchased.
(g)
Festivals; special events. Unless otherwise specified by this article or the terms of a special event permit issued by the city, the provisions of this article shall also apply to special events and festivals.
(h)
Public parks and squares in the downtown district. Beer and wine, but not distilled spirits, may be consumed in public parks and squares located in the downtown district, including on the sidewalks adjacent thereto, but only when same is specifically authorized by the city in conjunction with a city event or under a special event permit issued by the city. Further, beer or wine consumed pursuant to the foregoing provision must be purchased from an alcoholic beverage licensee holding a permit to sell beer or wine at the subject city or special event. Except as otherwise expressly authorized pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this subsection, no person shall possess any open alcoholic beverage container in a public park or square located within the downtown district.
(Code 1989, § 3-182; Ord. No. 658, § 1, 8-22-2011; Ord. No. 742, § 1, 6-19-2017)
Sec. 4-402. - Alcohol/food sales ratio.
A licensed establishment located within the downtown district shall derive a minimum of 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food.
(Code 1989, § 3-183; Ord. No. 658, § 1, 8-22-2011)
Sec. 4-403. - No abrogation of other laws.
The provisions of this article shall not be deemed to abrogate or otherwise impact any state law or local ordinance pertaining to public drunkenness, disorderly conduct, driving with an open container or under the influence of alcohol, or similar laws.
(Code 1989, § 3-184; Ord. No. 658, § 1, 8-22-2011)
Sec. 4-404. - Licensed establishments with food trucks/mobile food vendors.
A licensed establishment within the downtown district may utilize one or more food trucks/mobile vendor trucks to satisfy the requirement of a full-service kitchen (article II, section 4-47) and alcohol/food sales ratio (article II, section 4-47 and article XVI, section 4-402) under the terms of this section. The food trucks/mobile food vendors must be:
(1)
Licensed under chapter 10, article X;
(2)
Located on the same private property premises as the licensed establishment;
(3)
Generally incorporated into the operation of the licensed establishment; and
(4)
Available, open and prepared to serve food every hour that alcoholic beverages are offered for sale from any portion of the premises.
(Ord. No. 728, § 1, 9-19-2016)
Secs. 4-405—4-421. - Reserved.
