Chapter 14 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 14-1. - Emergency management defined.
As used in this article, the term "emergency management" means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin, caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Code 1989, § 7-1; Ord. No. 81, § 1, 11-20-1961)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 14-2. - Council of emergency management—Created; composition.
The city council of emergency management is hereby created and shall include the following:
(1)
Mayor.
(2)
Director of emergency management (as appointed) (shall be executive vice-chairperson).
(3)
Police chief.
(4)
Fire chief.
(5)
Director of public works.
(6)
American Red Cross representative.
(7)
Others, including representatives of business, labor and patriotic organizations, as appointed by the city council.
(Code 1989, § 7-2; Ord. No. 81, § 8, 11-20-1961)
Sec. 14-3. - Same—Powers and duties.
It shall be the duty of the council of emergency management, and it is hereby empowered:
(1)
To develop a city emergency management plan. This plan shall provide for the effective mobilization of all the resources of the city, both private and public.
(2)
To prepare and recommend for consideration by the city council, ordinances necessary to implement the emergency management plan.
(3)
To consider and recommend to the city council for approval mutual aid plans and agreements.
(4)
Others (as determined locally).
(Code 1989, § 7-3; Ord. No. 81, § 8, 11-20-1961)
Sec. 14-4. - Director of emergency management.
There is hereby created the office of the city emergency management director. Such officer shall be nominated by the mayor, and appointed by the governor, as provided by law. The director is hereby charged:
(1)
To represent the mayor on all matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To develop a city emergency management plan. This plan shall provide for the effective mobilization of all the resources of the city, both private and public.
(3)
To obtain and utilize cooperation of city officials in the preparation and implementation of emergency management plans.
(4)
During periods of emergency, to direct the services of all city emergency management forces.
(5)
During periods of emergency, to obtain vital supplies and equipment lacking, needed for the protection of life and property of people, and bind the city for the value thereof, and, if required immediately, requisition same.
(Code 1989, § 7-4; Ord. No. 81, § 2, 11-20-1961)
Sec. 14-5. - Emergency management organization—Composition.
Officers and employees of the city with volunteer forces enrolled to aid them during an emergency and all groups, organizations and persons who make the agreements on operation of law charged with duties necessary for the protection of the life and property in the city during such an emergency shall constitute the emergency management organization.
(Code 1989, § 7-5; Ord. No. 81, § 3, 11-20-1961)
State Law reference— Authority to form, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 14-6. - Same—Divisions.
The functions and duties of the emergency management organization shall be distributed among the divisions as listed below. Each division shall be under the direction of a service chief appointed by the director. The service chiefs will be selected from among the best qualified in the city and may include, but not be restricted to, chiefs of existing community services. Arranged within each division are the various emergency management services, each service under the direction of a chief designated to head this service due to intimate knowledge of the particular service and qualities as a leader. The divisions are as follows:
EXPAND
Operations Intelligence Logistics Administration
Communications
Police
Fire Rescue
Transportation
Health
Engineering
Welfare
Warden Attack warning
Radiological Defense
Industry and institutions
Emergency public
information Manpower
Shelter
Planning
Supply
(1) Resources
(2) Procurement
(3) Controls Administrative and fiscal
section
(including matching funds)
Training and education
  (Code 1989, § 7-6; Ord. No. 81, § 4, 11-20-1961)
Sec. 14-7. - Volunteers.
All persons other than officers and employees of the city volunteering in service pursuant to emergency management under this chapter shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such service, they shall have the same immunities as employees of the city performing similar duties.
(Code 1989, § 7-7; Ord. No. 81, § 5, 11-20-1961)
Sec. 14-8. - Unlawful acts.
It shall be a misdemeanor during an emergency:
(1)
To willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the emergency management organizations, or any enforcement of a lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter or in the performance of any duty imposed upon such person by the virtue of this chapter.
(2)
To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this chapter if such act is of such nature as to give assistance to the enemy or to imperil or delay emergency management thereof.
(3)
To wear or carry or display without authority any mark or identification specified by the council of emergency management.
(Code 1989, § 7-8; Ord. No. 81, § 6, 11-20-1961)
Sec. 14-9. - Plan.
A complete and adequate emergency management plan will be formulated and maintained at once by the council of emergency management. This plan will be based upon plans formulated by the state, mutual aid agreements, and chiefs of divisions.
(Code 1989, § 7-9; Ord. No. 81, § 7, 11-20-1961)
Sec. 14-10. - Emergency powers of mayor.
In addition to all powers enumerated in this Code, the mayor, as the chief executive of the city, shall have further emergency powers as follows:
(1)
The mayor shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in such official's opinion, one or more of the following conditions exists:
a.
That there is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
b.
Unusual or extreme weather conditions, making use of city streets or areas difficult or impossible.
c.
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
d.
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(2)
After declaration of such emergency, the mayor, as chief executive, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
a.
The power to use employees of the city to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
b.
The power to close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
c.
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations.
d.
The power to close business establishments within the affected area.
e.
The power to close any municipally-owned building and other facilities to the use of the general public.
f.
The power to do all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
g.
No emergency power as set forth herein may be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the mayor. However, upon declaration of a second or further emergencies to exist, the emergency powers as set forth herein may be exercised during such further emergency period or periods, but never for more than 72 hours in one declared emergency period.
h.
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or called meeting of the city council.
(3)
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Code 1989, § 7-10; Ord. No. 106, 10-9-1967)
Sec. 14-11. - Conflict of interest.
Where provisions of this chapter are in conflict with provisions of existing ordinances, the provisions of this chapter, in an emergency, will govern.
(Code 1989, § 7-11; Ord. No. 81, § 8, 11-20-1961)
Sec. 14-12. - Office of emergency management.
(a)
The director of the city office of emergency management shall be authorized to exercise overall direction and coordination of emergency and disaster planning and operations, as stated in section 14-4.
(b)
The director of the city office of emergency management shall be authorized to activate and deactivate the city emergency operations center, any secondary emergency operations center that may be opened, and/or support of all city departments in an emergency or disaster.
(c)
The city administrator, or his designee, shall serve as the director of the city office of emergency management.
(d)
The city emergency operations plan shall be binding on all city departments providing emergency support functions, and shall serve as the basis to assist the city in time of emergency or disaster.
(e)
The director of the city office of emergency management shall provide direction and coordination of all activities and functions provided by state agencies and organizations, and shall perform other duties prescribed herein.
(f)
The primary and support function responsibilities for emergency management services and resources shall be as follows:
EXPAND
Emergency Support Function Agency/Organization
1. Transportation Primary:Department of recreation and parks
Support: Department of public works
2. Communications Primary:Department of public safety
Support: Department of technical services
Division of fire and emergency services
Office of homeland security and emergency management
3. Public works Primary:Department of public works
Support: Department of recreation and parks
4. Firefighting Primary:Department of fire and emergency services
Support: Division of police services
5. Emergency management Primary:City administrator's office
Support: Department of public safety
Department of police services
Department of fire and emergency services
Department of public works
Department of recreation and parks
Department of community development
Department of financial services
Department of human resources
6. Mass care Primary:Department of recreation and parks
Support: Department of community development
7. Resource support Primary:Department of financial services
Support: Department of human resources
8. Health and medical Primary:Department of fire and emergency services
Support: Department of police services
Department of human resources
9. Search and rescue Primary:Department of fire and emergency services
Support: Department of public works
Department of police services
Department of recreation and parks
10. Hazardous materials Primary:Department of fire and emergency services
Support: Department of police services
Department of public works
11. Food and water Primary:Department of human resources
Support: Department of community development
Department of recreation and parks
12. Energy Primary:Department of public works
Support: Department of fire and emergency services
13. Public safety and security Primary:Department of public safety
Support: Department of police services
Department of fire and emergency services
14. Long term recovery and   mitigation Primary:Department of community development
Support: Department of public works
15. External affairs Primary:City administrator's office
Support: Department of public safety
  (g)
Each city department shall appoint an emergency coordinator and two alternates to serve in time of an emergency or disaster.
(h)
Each city department assigned primary emergency support function responsibilities shall provide assistance in preparation and revision of such functions, collaborate with support agencies and maintain accompanying standard operating plans.
(i)
Each city department with primary and/or support responsibilities shall assign personnel to serve in the emergency operations center (EOC), maintain a 24-hour response capability, conduct and participate in training and exercises, prepare updates to the city emergency operations plan, as necessary, and maintain reporting systems as required by state and federal laws and regulations.
(j)
All other departments not assigned a primary or support role in emergency management shall implement duties or services that may be required during an emergency or disaster as requested by the mayor.
(Code 1989, § 7-12; Res. No. 991, 12-16-2002; Ord. No. 605, 5-21-2007; Res. No. 1626, 8-6-2012)
