ARTICLE VIII. - SPECIALTY GIFT SHOPS

Sec. 4-215. - Exception for specialty gift shops.
(a)
For all purposes of this section, the term "specialty gift shop" shall be defined as any retail gift shop that derives not more than 15 percent of its gross sales from the sale of packaged gift baskets or similar items containing unbroken containers of wine or beer.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, a limited exception to the provisions of sections 4-6 and 4-137 shall exist for the owners of specialty gift shops, provided that the owner shall first obtain a specialty gift shop alcohol permit as hereinafter provided, and the only sale of alcohol by the owner is through the sale of gift items as specified in subsection (a) of this section and not for consumption on the premises.
(c)
All persons desiring to engage in activities permitted by this section shall make written application to the director of community development for a specialty gift shop alcohol permit on forms prescribed by the director of community development, and filed with the director of community development. All applications shall be accompanied by a certified check for $150.00. If the application is denied, or if the applicant withdraws the application prior to its approval, the license fee (without interest) shall be refunded. The application shall include the name and address of the applicant, the address of the business location, and the name and address of the manager. If the manager changes, the applicant must furnish the director of community development with the name and address of the new manager and the information as requested within ten days of such change. The applicant must meet the character requirements of this chapter. All applications shall be sworn to by the applicant before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths.
(d)
The director of community development shall prepare and cause to be published a notice of each pending application, which notice shall include the date the application will be considered by the clerk, the location or street number of the premises where the applicant proposes to conduct activities permitted by this section and the name of the applicant. The applicant shall pay the publication costs. The notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city, and shall appear once a week for two weeks immediately preceding consideration of the application by the clerk.
(e)
If the clerk grants the applicant a specialty gift shop alcohol permit, it shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance. The director of community development shall have authority to prescribe forms for new or renewal applications. All applicants shall furnish data, information or records as required by the director of community development to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Failure to furnish such data shall automatically serve to dismiss the application with prejudice.
(f)
Any untrue or misleading information contained in, or material statement omitted from, an original or renewal application for a specialty gift shop alcohol permit shall be cause for the denial or revocation thereof.
(g)
In all instances in which an application is denied under the provisions of this section, the applicant may not re-apply for a new license for at least one year from any final date of such denial.
(h)
Each applicant shall certify that the applicant has read this section, and if a specialty gift shop alcohol permit is granted, each licensee shall maintain a copy of this section on the premises and shall require each of the licensee's employees to be familiar with this section. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, all of the applicant's employees must be at least 18 years of age to sell any gift item containing alcohol.
(i)
Except as set forth in this section, a holder of a specialty gift shop alcohol permit must comply with all other provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 3-100; Ord. No. 373, 3-25-1996; Ord. No. 679, § 15, 7-15-2013; Ord. No. 784 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-26-2019)
Secs. 4-216—4-238. - Reserved.
