Chapter 40 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— City has power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4); municipal street systems generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; obstructing sidewalks or other public passages, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-43; damaging public property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; obstructions in streets, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10; municipal authority to regulate streets, alleys and sidewalks, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 40-1. - Obstruction of view at entrances to streets.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any land owner, or the tenant of any land owner, to erect any fence or other device that obstructs the clear view of any adjacent land owner from entering or exiting any street in the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any land owner, or the tenant of any land owner, to grow or maintain any hedge that obstructs the clear view of the entrance or exit of any adjacent land owner from entering or exiting any street in the city.
(Code 1989, § 17-1; Ord. No. 123, § 1, 10-23-1972)
Secs. 40-2—40-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STREET LIGHTING

Sec. 40-21. - Districts established generally; classification.
The city council does hereby establish for the city, districts to be known as "street lighting districts." Such districts shall be classified according to the local area roads and streets, as follows:
(1)
Major thoroughfare districts.
(2)
Industrial parkway districts.
(3)
Collector street districts.
(4)
Local and residential street districts.
(Code 1989, § 17-20; Ord. No. 176, § 1, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-22. - District description.
The official zoning map for the city shall be utilized for the purpose of demonstrating the street lighting districts, and the office of the city public works department shall establish records designating these various street lighting districts throughout the city to which reference can be made for a full and complete description of each district.
(Code 1989, § 17-21; Ord. No. 176, § 2, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-23. - Establishing districts and providing lighting in special conditions.
In areas where special conditions as to safety, security, land topography, economic and other factors may be involved, the city council may create special street lighting districts and provide for special street lighting under such terms and conditions as may be determined by the city council, any other provisions of this article to the contrary notwithstanding; provided, however, that in such instances, a public hearing shall be held by the city council after advertisement in the official organ of the city one time at least ten days before conducting such public hearing.
(Code 1989, § 17-22; Ord. No. 176, § 14, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-24. - Site plan.
Real estate developers, whether single-family or multifamily residential, commercial, office-institutional, industrial or community unit plan, shall, prior to the receipt of any building permit for their developments, provide the city with detailed site plans of the streets to be used in their developments and showing the location of all street lights; submit proof of payment for pole and electrical installation; and shall comply in every respect with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1989, § 17-23; Ord. No. 176, § 3, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-25. - Petition for service authorized.
Property owners residing in the city and desiring street lighting for the area in which they live, may petition the city public works department to have such service. Such petition must contain not less than ten property owners representing not less than 65 percent of the property owners within the district to be established. A petition may be brought by less than ten property owners where such petitioners represent 100 percent of the property owners within the district to be established.
(Code 1989, § 17-24; Ord. No. 176, § 4, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-26. - Presenting and action on petition.
After investigation by the public works department as to advisability of establishing such a district, the petition shall be presented to the city council for consideration upon a public hearing. After the public hearing, the petition will be either approved or disapproved by the city council.
(Code 1989, § 17-25; Ord. No. 176, § 5, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-27. - Conditions to furnishing service in other than single-family residential districts.
Street lighting in districts other than single-family residential shall be permitted only with the approval of the city building official, subject to the safety, economic and other factors involved, and only upon final approval by the city council, and upon compliance with the standards hereinafter provided.
(Code 1989, § 17-26; Ord. No. 176, § 12, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-28. - Retirement of construction cost.
(a)
In those districts now in existence or which may hereafter be created in which there is construction cost, the same shall be retired as per agreement or contract with the public utility or other person to whom the indebtedness is owed and shall be billed accordingly per lot.
(b)
The term "lot" is hereby defined as any single tract of land which falls within any of the zoning classifications as defined by the zoning ordinance.
(c)
In areas zoned for purposes other than single-family residential, different criteria may be adopted by the city council for the payment of energy cost and retirement of construction cost.
(Code 1989, § 17-27; Ord. No. 176, §§ 7, 8, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-29. - Payment for service—Not a tax.
The cost of service for creation of street lighting districts created shall be a service cost and not a tax, as such service is authorized by article IX, section 4, paragraph 2 of the 1983 constitution of the state.
(Code 1989, § 17-28; Ord. No. 176, § 6, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-30. - Same—Cost to be borne by consumers; computation of charge.
The cost of providing and maintaining the service in existing street lighting districts, and in street lighting districts hereafter created, shall be borne by those citizens and residents receiving the service. The charge therefor shall be the actual cost of the energy, plus the pro-rata share of the retirement of any construction cost, plus ten percent for administrative cost.
(Code 1989, § 17-29; Ord. No. 176, § 7, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-31. - Same—Due date; delinquency.
The due date for the payment of the services and sums herein provided for shall be the same date of each month as water bills are due to the city and subject to the same penalties for late payment and for failure to pay. Any service provided by the city may be discontinued for late payment or nonpayment, as herein provided for.
(Code 1989, § 17-30; Ord. No. 176, § 9, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-32. - Same—Officer responsibility for billing, etc.
The billing, accounting, collecting, and receiving of moneys herein provided for is hereby declared to be the responsibility of the city clerk.
(Code 1989, § 17-31; Ord. No. 176, § 10, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-33. - Providing street lighting by developers, etc.—Conforming to standards.
The owner, developer or other person developing a subdivision, or any other property, shall provide street lighting services to conform to all of the standards herein provided for, and in addition thereto, shall be required to obtain a permit from community development prior to commencing any construction of any street lighting facilities, and the city shall not accept any public streets or roads proposed to be dedicated until such time as the provisions hereof have been complied with.
(Code 1989, § 17-32; Ord. No. 176, § 11, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-34. - Same—Specific requirements.
Street lights shall be required to be provided by the developers of all new subdivisions or other projects within the city unless waived by the city council at a regular meeting. Unless so waived, the preliminary plat of the subdivision or other development shall make provisions for street lights. At the time of and as a requirement of the submission of a final plat, unless waived by the city council as herein provided, the developer shall:
(1)
Submit a drawing of the subdivision's or development's layout showing location of street lights. The drawing must be approved by the city building official prior to obtaining any building permit within that subdivision or development. Such layout may be shown on the final plat. Fixtures and standards/poles installed or used shall be approved by the utility company which will be responsible for the maintenance of the facilities and by the city. The fixtures shall be mounted above the ground and shall have appropriate arm length to place the light over the street. No arm shall be less than 2½ feet long. Post-top luminaries may be permitted when approved by the city building official. Post-top luminary fixtures shall be located not more than 200 feet apart, and at least one light shall be located at each street intersection within the subdivision or development.
(2)
Pay all costs for standards/poles, fixtures and any other related items or materials necessary for the installation.
(3)
Submit proof of payment for complete installation to the city building official.
(4)
Submit a copy of an executed agreement with the utility company for complete maintenance of all installations.
(Code 1989, § 17-33; Ord. No. 176, § 20, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-35. - Same—Use of underground cable.
In subdivisions or other developments utilizing underground cable for electrical service, the developers shall be required to accomplish the same items listed in other sections hereof.
(Code 1989, § 17-34; Ord. No. 176, § 21, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-36. - Standard for installation and operation.
(a)
In order to ensure adequate illumination of public rights-of-way and promote safety and security, it is hereby ordained that the American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting of the Illuminating Engineering Society, as approved by the American National Standards Institute (1977), as amended, is hereby adopted as the standard for the installation and operation of lighting in the city, with the following exceptions:
(1)
Lighting fixtures installed within the public rights-of-way to be operated for the purpose of street illumination shall comply with these standards. The minimum average horizontal footcandle illumination level by roadway classification shall be:
EXPAND
Roadway Classification Commercial Area Intermediate Area Residential Area
Major thoroughfares 2.0 1.2 0.9
Industrial parkways 2.0 1.2 0.9
Collector streets 1.2 0.9 0.6
Local and residential streets 0.9 0.6 0.2
  The uniformity of illumination shall be such that the point of lowest illumination shall have at least one-third of the average horizontal footcandle required illumination level, except that on local or residential streets, it may be not less than one-sixth of this average.
(2)
Any party installing or operating lighting fixtures within a public right-of-way shall furnish plans and specifications to the city building official for approval showing how the proposed lighting meets the standards, and no lighting shall be installed or operated without this approval. Should the city building official disapprove the request to install or operate lighting fixtures within any public right-of-way, such official shall communicate the disapproval in writing to the party desiring the same. The written communication shall include the specific reasons for disapproval. Any disapproval of a light or lighting system by the city building official may be appealed to the city council. If any party desires to appeal an adverse decision by the building official, a notice of appeal shall be filed with the city council within 30 days from the date following the written notice of disapproval, and it shall be the responsibility of the city building official to transmit forthwith to the city council all papers and allied documents constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken and to ensure that the appeal is promptly placed upon the agenda of the city council at its next regularly scheduled meeting. The city council may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from.
(3)
Roadway or street lighting luminaries or fixtures installed within the public right-of-way as security lights or for the purpose of lighting areas other than the public streets shall be mounted on the side of the pole opposite the street side and shall be oriented in such a manner as to ensure that the lateral light distribution pattern is parallel to the street and the vertical light distribution, at the initial light source, is perpendicular to the street, so as to protect the users of the street from objectionable glare. The approval of the city building official shall be obtained before installation of these lights.
(4)
Other lighting fixtures to be installed within or outside of public right-of-way for whatever purpose shall be installed and operated in such a manner to prevent glare from being a hazard to or interfering with the normal use of the public right-of-way.
(b)
The publication referred to in this section shall be attached to the minutes of the city council's regular meeting. An official copy thereof shall be made available by the city building official (American National Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting of the Illuminating Engineering Society, as approved by the American National Standards Institute (1977), as amended).
(Code 1989, § 17-35; Ord. No. 176, §§ 13, 19, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-37. - Contracting with utilities.
The city council may contract with public utilities for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this article.
(Code 1989, § 17-36; Ord. No. 176, § 15, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-38. - Granting of exceptions.
The city council may grant exceptions to the literal terms of this article where special conditions or hardships exist.
(Code 1989, § 17-37; Ord. No. 176, § 16, 3-10-1980)
Sec. 40-39. - Conflict of laws.
If any provision of this article is in conflict with any state or federal law or with any rule, regulation or order of any state or federal agency having jurisdiction of the subject matter of this article, it is hereby deemed to be the intention of the city council that the state or federal law or rule, regulation or order, as the case may be, shall prevail so that the remaining portion of this article shall be deemed to be of full force and effect.
(Code 1989, § 17-38; Ord. No. 176, § 17, 3-10-1980)
Secs. 40-40—40-66. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DEDICATION OF STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 40-67. - Authority.
The city council adopts the ordinance from which this article is derived pursuant to its authority to plan and zone in accordance with the provisions of article 9, section 2, paragraph 4 of the state constitution, and pursuant to its general police power to promote the health, safety, order, prosperity and the general welfare of the city.
(Code 1989, § 17-51; Ord. No. 269, § 1, 1-22-1990)
Sec. 40-68. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to establish standard procedures to be observed by developers, engineers and contractors with respect to the dedication to the city of land for rights-of-way for streets and for the dedication and acceptance for perpetual maintenance by the city of certain public improvements, including streets, utilities and other facilities. This article shall be referred to as the "street dedication ordinance."
(Code 1989, § 17-52; Ord. No. 269, § 2, 1-22-1990)
Sec. 40-69. - Application of article.
The provisions of this article shall apply to all development activity within the city that results in the dedication and acceptance by the city of rights-of-way for streets and public uses and for the dedication and acceptance by the city for perpetual maintenance of certain public improvements.
(Code 1989, § 17-53; Ord. No. 269, § 3, 1-22-1990)
Sec. 40-70. - Dedication of land for street rights-of-way and other public uses.
All developers who dedicate land for street rights-of-way or other public use shall provide the city with an accurate survey of such land prepared by a registered land surveyor registered in the state, with the cost of the survey to be borne by the developer. The developer shall convey a good and marketable fee simple title to the land by a general warranty deed in a form customarily utilized in metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia. The general warranty deed shall be executed and delivered in recordable form to the city at such time as the city shall direct. The execution and delivery of the general warranty deed, and the acceptance thereof by the city, shall not, unless otherwise provided herein, constitute the city's acceptance for perpetual maintenance of any required improvements constructed or to be constructed on the land. The city's acceptance for perpetual maintenance of such improvements shall be governed by the provisions of section 40-71, and such acceptance by the city may or may not occur at the same time as the city's acceptance of the land upon which the improvements have or will be constructed.
(Code 1989, § 17-54; Ord. No. 269, § 4, 1-22-1990)
Sec. 40-71. - Dedication and acceptance for perpetual maintenance of public improvements.
The dedication and acceptance for perpetual maintenance of public improvements shall be effected in the following manner:
(1)
Prior to the construction of a public improvement, the developer shall submit a detailed site plan of the proposed development, including all public improvements. The detailed site plan shall specify the location of all street lights, and the developer shall submit proof of payment for pole and electrical installation. The plans shall conform in all respects to the city standard construction specifications and standard plans in effect at the time the plans are submitted.
(2)
Prior to the construction of such public improvements, the developer shall post a performance bond with the city conditioned upon the faithful performance and completion of the public improvements by the developer. The performance bond shall be in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the public improvements, as determined in the sole discretion of the director of community development. The performance bond shall be issued by a surety authorized to do business in the state and certified by the Department of the Treasury as an acceptable surety on federal bonds. The developer shall notify the director of community development when the construction of the improvements has been completed, and the director of community development shall inspect the improvements to determine if construction has been completed in compliance with city standards. If the director of community development determines that the construction of the improvements has been completed in accordance with city standards, the director of community development shall notify the developer in writing of such determination, and the developer shall promptly post a maintenance bond with the city conditioned upon the developer's maintenance of the improvements for a period of one year. The bond shall be in the amount of one-third of the estimated cost of the improvements; provided, however, that if the developer has previously failed to comply with any provision of this article, the city may require that the amount of the bond be equal to 43 percent of the estimated cost of improvements. At such time as the city has received the required maintenance bond, the city shall release the performance bond. The surety issuing the maintenance bond shall have the same qualifications as the surety issuing the performance bond. The director of community development's inspection and approval of the improvements, and the city's release of the performance bond, shall not constitute a warranty by the city that the improvements have been completed in accordance with all city standards. During the period of the one-year maintenance bond, the director of community development and representatives of other city departments shall have the right to conduct periodic inspections of the improvements, including the taking of core samples and the performing of other tests as the director of community development deems appropriate. The cost of the core sampling shall be borne by the developer.
(3)
Not sooner than 75 days nor later than 60 days prior to the expiration of the one-year maintenance bond, the developer shall petition the city to accept the public improvements for perpetual maintenance. Failure to petition the city shall result in forfeiture of the maintenance bond. Upon receipt of the petition, the director of community development shall notify the fire department, police department, department of community development and the public works department. Each department shall conduct inspections of the improvements and shall submit reports to the director of community development on forms and within time deadlines established by the director of community development. The director of community development, through his own inspection and by the reports submitted by the city departments referred to above, shall be responsible for determining if the improvements are in accordance with city standards and are otherwise acceptable for perpetual maintenance. If the director of community development finds that the improvements are deficient in any respect, the director of community development shall so notify the developer and the developer shall timely perform such additional work as the director of community development deems necessary to render the improvements acceptable for perpetual maintenance by the city. The failure of the developer to timely perform the work specified by the director of community development shall result in forfeiture of the maintenance bond. Upon the director of community development's final determination that the improvements are acceptable by the city for perpetual maintenance, the director of community development shall so notify the developer in writing, and the maintenance bond shall be released. Notwithstanding the release of the performance bond or maintenance bond, the developer shall have the responsibility of maintaining all improvements until such time as the director of community development has issued the city's written acceptance for perpetual maintenance of the improvements.
(Code 1989, § 17-55; Ord. No. 269, § 5, 1-22-1990)
Sec. 40-72. - Miscellaneous provisions.
Interpretation, purpose and conflict. The provisions of this article shall be considered as the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health, morals and general welfare within the city. The provisions of this article are not intended to abrogate or eliminate other requirements which may be set forth in the zoning ordinance, subdivision regulations, design standards, or other such ordinances; provided, however, where this article imposes greater requirements, the provisions of this article shall govern.
(Code 1989, § 17-57; Ord. No. 269, § 7, 1-22-1990)
Secs. 40-73—40-102. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - TESTING STANDARDS FOR NEW STREETS

Sec. 40-103. - Statement of purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide for a method of testing the physical properties and conformity to standards of all new streets prior to the city's acceptance of such streets for perpetual maintenance. This article authorizes the city to arrange for core boring of roads and other tests, provides for reasonable fees for such core boring, and establishes standards for such core boring.
(Code 1989, § 17-81; Ord. No. 241-A, § 1, 4-25-1988)
Sec. 40-104. - Coring requirements.
(a)
The city shall require core boring of all new roads or streets in the city. Such boring shall be provided by the contractor/developer.
(b)
Testing shall be conducted during construction, and such core borings being taken after the binder is in place, but prior to installation of the final layer of asphalt. Core samples shall be made in accordance with ASTM D3549, and at the rate of one core sample every 100 feet in alternating lanes for two-lane roads. Roads with more than two lanes and acceleration lanes shall be cored at the same rate.
(c)
Core samples will be measured for thickness of base and thickness of binder layer. Any road with 95 percent or more of the core samples meeting the required standards shall be deemed to pass the sampling process. If any road has less than 95 percent of the core samples meeting the required standards, such road shall not be accepted for perpetual maintenance until the development/owner takes such corrective action as determined by the director of community development. Subsequent to such corrective action, the director of community development may require subsequent testing at the development's/owner's expense.
(Code 1989, § 17-82; Ord. No. 241-A, § 2, 4-25-1988)
Sec. 40-105. - Regulations or practices governing public improvements.
This article shall not be construed as invalidating any current regulations or practices governing the acceptance of public improvements.
(Code 1989, § 17-85; Ord. No. 241-A, § 5A, 4-25-1988)
Secs. 40-106—40-125. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - OUTDOOR SPRINKLER SYSTEMS

Sec. 40-126. - Findings.
(a)
The uncontrolled use of outdoor sprinkler systems when outdoor temperatures are near or below freezing, and where located near sidewalks and/or streets, present an inconvenience and danger to the safety and welfare of persons using the sidewalks and/or streets.
(b)
Outdoor sprinkler systems which are left on for an excessive period of time so as to cause puddling of water on sidewalks and/or streets, or which over-spray or spray directly onto sidewalks and/or streets constitute an inconvenience or danger to persons using the sidewalks and/or streets, both by the puddling of water and through the accelerated deterioration of sidewalks and/or streets.
(c)
These factors can cause dangerous accidents and accelerated deterioration of public sidewalks and/or streets resulting in additional city expense for repairs.
(d)
The mayor and council recognize, however, that the use of outdoor sprinkler systems serves a useful purpose and contributes to the beauty of the city, and that the use of outdoor sprinkler systems should not be absolutely denied.
(Code 1989, § 17-100; Ord. No. 410, § 1, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 40-127. - Purpose.
(a)
The purpose of this article is to recognize that although outdoor sprinkler systems are proper and necessary, these systems should be reasonably regulated in the interest of public safety and welfare by the establishment of standards for the timing, coverage and use of sprinkler systems.
(b)
In order to protect the public safety, to protect the public investment in sidewalks and streets, and to provide for orderly and reasonable use of outdoor sprinkler systems, the mayor and council hereby determine that the public health, safety and welfare require the adoption of this article.
(Code 1989, § 17-101; Ord. No. 410, § 2, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 40-128. - Operations prohibited.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this article to operate an outdoor sprinkler system when it is reasonably anticipated that temperatures are or will be near or below freezing. All outdoor sprinkler systems which operate on an automatic timer basis shall be equipped with a manual override to allow manual termination of the system in the event that temperatures unexpectedly fall below freezing. It shall also be a violation of this article to continually operate a sprinkler system for excessive periods of time where such sprinkling is likely to create puddling on adjacent public sidewalks and streets, or to operate a sprinkler system in a manner that is likely to over-spray or spray directly onto public sidewalks and public streets so as to cause an inconvenience and danger to persons and/or result in the accelerated deterioration of public sidewalks and streets.
(b)
No private improvements, such as lawn sprinkler systems, yard lighting, and the like, shall be installed within a public right-of-way or easement except by authorization of the director of public works. Such authorization, if issued, shall require the owner to assume all repair costs of the owner's facilities should they be damaged during the course of installation, maintenance, or repair of any of the improvements authorized to occupy said right-of-way or easement.
(Code 1989, § 17-102; Ord. No. 410, § 3, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 40-129. - Remedies; penalties.
(a)
When the director of public works or his designee determines that an outdoor sprinkler system is being operated in violation of this article, a written violation notice shall be issued to the owner/operator of the sprinkler system setting forth the actions deemed necessary to correct or remedy the violation. If the violation pertains to excessive use or over-spraying, the owner/operator shall, within seven days of the violation notice, take such action as is necessary to correct the violation, and shall certify to the director, in writing, the steps that have been taken to correct the violation. If the violation pertains to operating a sprinkler system when temperatures are near or below freezing, the owner/operator, upon receipt of oral or written notice, shall immediately discontinue operation of the sprinkler system, and shall also take such action as is necessary to remove any hazardous condition from the public sidewalks and streets of the city. When an emergency situation exists, and it is not practical to notify the owner/operator of the violation, the director may cause the city to take such action as is necessary to discontinue the operation of the sprinkler system and to remove, or, to the extent possible, eliminate the hazardous condition created by operation of the system. In the event that the city removes or remediates the hazardous conditions created by operation of the system, the owner/operator of the sprinkler system shall be responsible for reimbursing the city for the cost of the removal. In the event that any removal fee remains unpaid for a period of 30 days after written notice, the city may pursue any and all civil remedies available to the city at law or in equity to collect the fee, and the city may, after an additional 15-day period of prior written notice, discontinue water and garbage service to the applicable property. The payment of any unpaid removal fee shall not bar criminal prosecution for any violation of this article.
(b)
Any person who is convicted of a first offense under this article shall be subject to a fine according to penalties described in section 1-8, and each day that this violation occurs and continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1989, § 17-103; Ord. No. 410, § 4, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 40-130. - Exemption.
Owners of single-family residential dwellings shall be exempt from the provisions of this article. However, homeowners' associations maintaining common area entrance ways to residential subdivisions shall be responsible for complying with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1989, § 17-104; Ord. No. 410, § 5, 8-24-1998)
Sec. 40-131. - Registration.
All owners/operators of outdoor sprinkler systems may voluntarily file a registration with the city public works department, on a form designated by the director of public works. The registration shall identify the owner/operator, the property address, the locations of any manual override or shut-off valves, the name, address and telephone number of a 24-hour contact person, and such other information as the director of public works deems necessary. The voluntary registration requirements of this article shall become mandatory with respect to any owner/operator receiving a written violation notice pursuant to this article.
(Code 1989, § 17-105; Ord. No. 410, § 6, 8-24-1998)
