ARTICLE IX. - ETHICS[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
State Law reference— Ethics in Government Act, O.C.G.A. § 21-5-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-444. - Policy and intent.
It is the policy of the county that the proper operation of democratic government requires that public officials be independent, impartial and responsible to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government. In recognition of these goals, a code of ethics for all county officials is adopted.
Sec. 2-445. - Purpose.
(a)
This article has the following purposes:
(1)
To encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by county officials;
(2)
To establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best interest of the county;
(3)
To require disclosure by such officials of private financial or other interest in manners affecting the county; and
(4)
To serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms.
(b)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to political contributions, loans, expenditures, reports or regulation of political campaigns or the conduct of candidates in such campaigns.
Sec. 2-446. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Complaint means a written sworn statement filed with the chairman of the board of commissioners containing specific allegations of misconduct by a member; provided, however, such allegations must be filed within 90 days of discovery of the alleged misconduct.
County official or member of the governing body means member of the county board of commissioners and any member appointed to any other board, authority, committee, or commission of the county.
Interest means any direct pecuniary benefit, which is not a remote interest held by or accruing to a member of the governing body as a result of a contract or transaction that is or may be the subject of an official act or action by or with the county. A member of the governing body shall be deemed to have an interest in transactions involving:
(1)
Any person in the member's immediate family;
(2)
Any person with whom a contractual relationship exists whereby the member may receive any payment or other benefits unless the member is receiving a benefit for goods or services in the normal course of business for which the member has paid a commercially reasonable rate;
(3)
Any business in which the member is a director, officer, employee, agent or shareholder, except as otherwise provided herein; or
(4)
Any person of whom the member is a creditor, whether secured or unsecured.
Sec. 2-447. - Prohibited conduct.
No member of the governing body shall:
(1)
By conduct give reasonable basis for the impression that any person can improperly influence him or unduly enjoy his favor in the performance of official acts;
(2)
Directly or indirectly request, exact, receive, or agree to receive a gift, loan, favor, promise, or thing of value for himself or another person if it could reasonably be considered to influence the member in the discharge of official duties, except:
a.
An occasional non-pecuniary gift of insignificant value;
b.
An award publicly presented in recognition of public service;
c.
A commercially reasonable loan or other financial transaction made in the ordinary course of business by an institution or individual authorized by the laws of the state to engage in the making of such a loan or financial transaction;
d.
Campaign contributions made and reported in accordance with state law;
(3)
Disclose or otherwise use confidential information acquired by virtue of his official position for his or another person's private gain;
(4)
Use his official position to attempt to secure privileges that are not available to the general public;
(5)
Engage in, accept employment with, or render services for any private business or professional activity when such employment or rendering or services is adverse to and incompatible with the proper discharge of official duties; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to a member of the governing body who is a licensed professional and appears on behalf of any applicant in such professional capacity so long as disclosures required herein are made to the board or chairperson 30 days prior to any action being taken, and the member is associated with the project at the time the initial application is filed;
(6)
Engage in any activity or transaction that is prohibited by law now existing or hereafter enacted which is applicable to him by virtue of being a member of the governing body;
(7)
Use his position to request or require an employee to:
a.
Do clerical work on behalf of the member's family, business, social, church or fraternal interest when such work is not furthering a county interest;
b.
Perform any work outside the employee's normal course of municipal employment;
c.
Purchase goods or services to be used for person, business, or political purposes; and
d.
Work for the member personally without paying the employee just compensation;
(8)
Use government property of any kind for other than officially approved activities, or direct employees to use such property for any purposes other than those officially approved;
(9)
Use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, another person to provide any financial benefit to him or persons having an interest.
Sec. 2-448. - Disclosure of conflicts of interest.
An appointed member of the governing body who has an interest that he has reason to believe may be affected by his official acts or actions or by the official acts or actions of the governing body shall disclose the precise nature of such interest by written or verbal statement 30 days prior to the governing body's taking official action on a matter affecting such interest and abstain from discussion and voting. An elected member of the governing body shall disclose the nature of any interest he has at the time such matter is presented to board of commissioners for discussion. Such written or verbal statements shall be recorded into the minutes or the meeting and thus become part of the public record. Following any disclosure made pursuant to this section, the member shall refrain from all ex parte communications with other members regarding the application in which he has an interest.
Sec. 2-449. - Disqualification.
A member of the governing body shall disqualify himself from participating in any official act or action of the county which results in a pecuniary benefit to the member or a business or activity in which he has an interest, when such benefit is not available to the public at large.
Sec. 2-450. - Prohibited contracts.
The county shall not enter into any contract involving services or property with a member of the governing body or with a business in which a member of the governing body has an interest, provided that this section shall not apply in the case of:
(1)
The designation of a bank or trust company as a depository for county funds;
(2)
The borrowing of funds from any bank or lending institution which offers the lowest available rate of interest in the community for such loan;
(3)
Contracts entered into in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 16-10-6;
(4)
Contracts entered into under circumstances that constitute an emergency situation, provided that the mayor prepares a written record explaining the emergency;
(5)
Contracts entered into with a member of the governing body, or with a business in which a member of the governing body has an interest, provided that such contract is the result of a competitive bid, disclosure of the nature of such member's interest is made prior to the time any bid is submitted, and a waiver or the prohibition contemplated by this section is issued by the county administrator following disclosure.
Secs. 2-451—2-468. - Reserved.
