ARTICLE III. - BUILDING AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1994 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1027), p. 4564, establishing a county building authority. The absence of a subsequent history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Rabun County Building Authority created.
There is created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the Rabun County Building Authority, herein called "the Authority," which shall be an instrumentality and a public corporation of the State of Georgia, the purpose of which shall be to acquire, construct, and equip self-liquidating projects, including, but not limited to, buildings, sanitary and surface water sewers, streets, roads and public facilities of every nature, type and character, for use by Rabun County or the Rabun County School District for their governmental, proprietary, public, administrative and educational functions and Rabun County and the Rabun County School District are granted the right and power by proper resolution of their governing authorities to sell or lease to the Authority lands and buildings owned by them. The Authority shall not be a state institution, nor a department or agency of the state, but shall be an instrumentality of the state, a mere creation of the state, having distinct corporate entity and being exempt from the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 17 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act." The Authority shall have its principal office in Rabun County, and its legal situs or residence for the purposes of this chapter shall be Rabun County.
(2010 Ga. Laws (Act #566), § 1)
Sec. 2. - Membership.
The Authority shall consist of five members who shall be eligible to succeed themselves and who shall be elected by the governing authority of Rabun County. The members of said governing authority of the county shall be eligible to be elected to and serve on the Authority. The members of the Authority shall hold office for terms of four years and until their successors shall have been elected; provided, however, that of the original members elected to the Authority three shall be elected to terms of one year each and two shall be elected to terms of three years. Upon the expiration of each of such initial terms, the successors shall be elected for terms of four years. Any vacancy on the Authority shall be filled for the unexpired term by the governing authority of Rabun County. Immediately after their election, the members of the Authority shall enter upon their duties. The Authority shall elect one of its members as Chairman and one as Vice-Chairman. The Secretary/Treasurer of the Authority shall be the clerk of the governing authority of Rabun County, or his or her designee, who shall not be a member of the Authority. Three members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum and no vacancy on the Authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the Authority and, in every instance, a majority vote of a quorum shall authorize any legal act of the Authority, including all things necessary to authorize and issue revenue bonds. The members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their services, but may be reimbursed by the Authority for their actual expenses properly incurred in the performance of their duties. The Authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government and shall have perpetual existence.
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word "Authority" shall mean the Rabun County Building Authority created by this Act.
(2)
The word "project" shall mean land, buildings, facilities, equipment, and real property and personal property of every kind and character necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of Rabun County or the Rabun County School District, or any other political subdivision or municipality of the State of Georgia located within Rabun County.
(3)
The term "cost of project" shall include the cost of lands, buildings, improvements, machinery, equipment, property, easements, rights, franchises, material, labor, services acquired or contracted for, plans and specification, financing charges, construction costs, interest prior to and during construction; architectural, accounting, engineering, inspection, administrative, fiscal, and legal expenses; expenses incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; expenses incident to the acquiring, constructing, equipping, and operating of any project or any part thereof, and to the placing of the same in operation and to the condemnation of any property incident to such construction and operation.
(4)
The term "revenue bonds" shall mean revenue bonds issued under the provisions of Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the Revenue Bond Law [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.], and under the provisions of this Act. The obligations authorized under this Act may be issued by the Authority in the manner authorized under the Revenue Bond Law.
(2010 Ga. Laws (Act #566), § 2)
Sec. 4. - Powers.
The Authority shall have all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this Act including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it shall have the power:
(1)
To sue and be sued;
(2)
To adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(3)
To make and execute with public and private persons and corporations contracts, leases, rental agreements, and other instruments relating to its projects and incident to the exercise of the powers of the Authority, including contracts for constructing, renting, and leasing of its projects for the use of Rabun County or the Rabun County School District; and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, authority is specifically granted to Rabun County and the Rabun County School District to enter into lease contracts and related agreements for the use of any structure, building, or facility or a combination of any two or more structures, buildings, or facilities of the Authority for a term not exceeding 50 years; and Rabun County and the Rabun County School District may enter into lease contracts and related agreements for the use of any structure, building, or facility, or a combination of the two or more structures, buildings, or facilities of the Authority for a term not exceeding 50 years upon a majority vote of its governing body and may obligate itself for the use of such property so leased and also obligate itself as part of the undertaking to pay debt service incurred in connection with such property, and to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing, and operating the property furnished by and leased from the Authority; and the sums agreed to be paid under the provisions of such lease contracts or related agreements may be pledged or assigned to secure the payment of revenue bonds issued hereunder;
(4)
To acquire in its own name by purchase on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws of the State of Georgia applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, including the power to proceed as a condemning body under the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 2 of Title 22 of the O.C.G.A.[O.C.G.A. 22-2-100 et seq.], relating to proceedings before a special master, or by gift, grant, lease, or otherwise real property or rights and easements therein and franchises and personal property necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the Authority. Title to any such property shall be held by the Authority exclusively for the benefit of the public. The Authority shall be under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned as provided herein except from the funds provided therefore and, in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the Authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned; and no property shall be acquired as provided herein upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money shall be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the amount of such lien or encumbrance. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on lands which are subject to the control of Rabun County or the Rabun County School District, the governing authority of Rabun County or the Rabun County School District, whichever is applicable, is authorized to convey such lands to the Authority for such consideration, not exceeding reasonable value, as may be agreed upon by the Authority, as Grantee, and by such governing authority, on behalf of Rabun County or the Rabun County School District, as Grantor, taking into consideration the public benefit to be derived from such conveyance.
(5)
To improve, extend, add to, reconstruct, renovate, or remodel any project or part thereof already acquired;
(6)
To pledge or assign any revenues, income, rent, charges, and fees received by the Authority;
(7)
To appoint and select, agents, engineers, architects, attorneys, fiscal agents, accountants, and employees and to provide for their compensation and duties;
(8)
To construct, reconstruct, acquire, own, alter, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, operate, manage, and equip projects located on land owned or leased by the Authority and to pay all or part of the costs of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the Authority or any contributions, loans, or grants by persons, firms, or corporations, including the State of Georgia and the United States of America, and any other contributions, all of which the Authority is authorized to receive, accept, and use to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of and to exercise police powers over the project or projects managed or operated by the Authority;
(9)
To accept, receive, and administer gifts, grants, loan and devises of money, material, and property of any kind, including loans and grants from the State of Georgia or the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(10)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes; and to issue revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(11)
To exercise all powers usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which are not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state; and
(12)
Pursuant to proper resolution of the Authority to issue revenue bonds payable from the rents and revenues of the Authority and its projects, to provide funds for carrying out the purposes of the Authority, which bonds may be issued in either fully negotiable coupon form, in which event they shall have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the law of Georgia, or they may be issued in whole or in part in non-negotiable fully registered form without coupons, payable to a designated payee or to the registered assigns of the payee with such conversion privileges as the Authority may provide, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project, including the cost of constructing, reconstructing, equipping, extending, adding to, or improving such project, or for the purpose of refunding, as herein provided, any such bonds of the Authority theretofore issued. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds were issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund provided for the payment of principal and interest on such bonds. All such revenue bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the procedure of Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., the Revenue Bond Law [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.], and in accordance with all terms and provisions thereof not in conflict herewith and in accordance with Code Section 50-17-1 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 50-17-1], relating to use of facsimile signatures on public securities, and, as security for the payment of any revenue bonds so authorized, any rents and revenue of the Authority may be pledged and assigned. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose, and such bonds and all income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the State of Georgia. For the purpose of the exemption from taxation of such bonds and the income therefrom, the Authority shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(2010 Ga. Laws (Act #566), § 3)
Sec. 5. - Credit not pledged and debt not created by bonds.
Credit not pledged and debt not created by bonds. Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not constitute a debt or a pledge of the faith and credit of the State of Georgia, Rabun County, or the Rabun County School District; but such bonds shall be payable from the rentals, revenue, earnings, and funds of the Authority as provided in the resolution or trust agreement or indenture authorizing the issuance and securing the payment of such bonds; and the issuance of such bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state, county, or such school district to levy or pledge any form of taxation whatever for the payment thereof. No holder of any bond or receiver or trustee in connection with therewith shall have the right to enforce the payment thereof against any property of the state or of such county or school district nor shall any such bond constitute a charge, lien, or encumberance, legal or equitable, upon any such property. All such bonds shall contain on their face a recital setting forth substantially the foregoing provisions of this section. However, such county or school district may obligate itself to pay the amounts required under any contract entered into with the Authority from funds received from taxes to be levied and collected for that purpose to the extent necessary to pay the obligations contractually incurred under this section, and from any other source; and the obligation to make such payments shall constitute a general obligation and a pledge of the full faith and credit of the obligor but shall not constitute a debt of the obligor under the meaning of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, Article IX, Section V, Paragraph I; and, when such obligation is made to make such payments from taxes to be levied for that purpose, then the obligation shall be mandatory to levy and collect such taxes from year to year in an amount sufficient to fulfill and fully comply with the terms of such obligation.
(2010 Ga. Laws (Act #566), § 4)
Sec. 6. - Trust agreement.
In the discretion of the Authority, any issue of revenue bonds may be secured by a trust agreement or indenture made by the Authority with a corporate trustee which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the State of Georgia. Such trust agreement or indenture may pledge and assign rents, fees, charges, revenues, and earnings to be received by the Authority. The resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds and such trust agreements or indenture may contain provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders, including the right of appointment of a receiver upon default of the payment of any principal or interest obligation and the right of any receiver or trustee to enforce collection of any rents, fees, charges or revenues for use of the project or projects necessary to pay all costs of operation and all reserves provided for, all principal and interest on all bonds of the issue, all costs of collection, and all other costs reasonably necessary to accomplish the collection of such sums in the event of any default of the Authority. Such resolution and such trust agreement or indenture may include covenants setting forth the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property for and construction of the project and to the custody, safeguarding, and application of all funds and covenants providing for the operation, maintenance, repair, and insurance of the project or projects and may contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. Such trust agreement or indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in securing bonds and debentures for corporations and may contain such other provisions as the Authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such trust.
Sec. 7. - Refunding bonds.
The Authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds of the Authority for the purpose of calling, refunding, or refinancing any revenue bonds issued under the provisions hereof and then outstanding and to include in the amount of such refunding bonds all interest and any call premiums that may be required for the redemption and refunding of such outstanding bonds.
Sec. 8. - Venue of actions, jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions hereof or any action against the Authority brought in the courts of the State of Georgia shall be brought in the Superior Court of Rabun County, Georgia; and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions hereof shall be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 9. - Revenue bond validation.
The petition for validation of all bonds of the Authority shall be brought against the Authority and any contracting party whose obligation is pledged as security for the payment of the bonds sought to be validated, as defendants, and the defendants shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof shall not be adjudicated to be in all respects valid and binding upon such contracting parties. It shall be incumbent upon such defendants to defend against adjudication of the validity and binding effect of such contract or contracts or be forever bound thereby. Notice of such proceedings shall be included in the notice of the validation hearing required to be issued and published by the Clerk of the Superior Court of Rabun County in which court such validation proceedings shall be initiated.
Sec. 10. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the Authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished, impaired, or affected in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds; and no other entity, department, agency, or authority shall be created which will compete with the Authority so as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds nor will the state itself so compete with the Authority. The provisions hereof shall be for the benefit of the Authority and the holders of any such bonds and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 11. - Revenues, earnings, rents, and charges; use.
(a)
For the purpose of earning sufficient revenue to make possible the financing of the construction of the project or projects of the Authority with revenue bonds, the Authority is authorized and empowered to fix, revise, and collect rents, fees, and charges on each project which it shall cause to be acquired or constructed. Such rentals, fees, or charges to be paid for the use of such project or projects shall be so fixed and adjusted as to provide a fund sufficient with other revenue, if any, of such project or projects or of the Authority:
(1)
To pay the cost of operating, maintaining, and repairing the project or projects, including reserves for insurance and extraordinary repairs and other reserves required by the resolution or trust agreement or indenture pertaining to such bonds and the issuance thereof, unless such cost shall be otherwise provided for;
(2)
To pay the principal of and interest on such revenue bonds as the same shall become due, including call premium, if any, the proceeds of which shall have been or will be used to pay the cost of such project or projects;
(3)
To comply with any sinking fund requirements contained in the resolution or trust agreement or indenture pertaining to the issuance of and security for such bonds;
(4)
To perform fully all provisions of such resolution and trust agreement or indenture relating to the issuance of or security for such bonds to the payment of which such rental is pledged;
(5)
To accumulate any excess income which may be required by the purchasers of such bonds or may be dictated by the requirements of such resolution or trust agreement or indenture or of achieving ready marketability of and low interest rates on such bonds;
(6)
To pay any expenses in connection with such bond issue or of such project or projects including but not limited to trustees', attorneys', and fiscal agents' fees.
(b)
Such rental shall be payable at such intervals as may be agreed upon and set forth in the rental contract or lease providing therefor and any such contract or lease may provide for the commencement of rental payments to the Authority prior to the completion of the undertaking by the Authority of any such project and may provide for the payment of rental during such times as such project or projects may be partially or wholly untenantable.
(c)
Such rental contract or lease may obligate the tenants or lessees to operate, maintain and keep in good repair, including complete reconstruction, if necessary, the rented or leased premises and projects, regardless of the cause of the necessity of such maintenance, repair, or reconstruction.
(d)
Such rental contract or lease may obligate the tenants or lessees to indemnify and save harmless the Authority from any and all damage to persons and property occurring on or by reason of the leased property or improvements thereon and to undertake, at the expense of the tenants or lessees, the defense of any action brought against the Authority by reason of injury or damages to persons or property occurring on or by reason of the leased premises.
(e)
In the event of any failure or refusal on the part of the tenants or lessees to perform punctually any covenant or obligation contained in any such rental contract or lease, the Authority may enforce performance by any legal or equitable process against the tenants or lessees.
(f)
The Authority shall be permitted to assign any rental payable to it, pursuant to such rental contract or lease, to a trustee or paying agent as may be required by the terms of the resolution or trust agreement or indenture relating to the issuance of and security for such bonds.
(g)
The use and disposition of the Authority's revenue shall be subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or of the trust agreement or indenture, if any, securing the same.
Sec. 12. - Sinking fund.
The revenue, rents, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects and any and all revenue, rents, and earnings received by the Authority, regardless of whether such revenue, rents, and earnings were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged, may be pledged by the Authority to payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the Authority as may be provided in any resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in any trust instrument pertaining to such bonds, and such funds so pledged, from whatever source received, may include funds received from one or more or all sources and may be set aside at regular intervals into sinking funds for which provision may be made in any such resolution or trust instrument and which may be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall become due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall mature, (3) the necessary charges of any trustee or paying agent for paying such principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase; and the use and disposition of any sinking fund may be subject to such regulation as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument securing the payment of the same.
Sec. 13. - Exemption from taxation.
The exercise of the powers conferred upon the Authority hereunder shall constitute an essential governmental function for a public purpose and the Authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or upon its activities in the operation and maintenance of property acquired by it or of buildings erected or acquired by it or any fees, rentals, or other charges for the use of such property or buildings or other income received by the Authority. The tax exemption herein provided shall not include an exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by or for the use of the Authority.
Sec. 14. - Immunity from tort actions.
The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia, and the officers, agents, and employees of the Authority, when in performance of work of the Authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as officers, agents, and employees of the State of Georgia. The Authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the Authority.
Sec. 15. - Property not subject to levy and sale.
The property of the Authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process.
Sec. 16. - Trust funds.
All funds received pursuant to authority hereof, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds or as revenue, rents, fees, charges, or other earnings or as grants, gifts, or other contributions, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied by the Authority, solely as provided herein; and the bondholders entitled to receive the benefits of such funds shall have a lien on all such funds until the same are applied as provided for in any such resolution or trust instrument of the Authority.
Sec. 17. - Construction.
This Act and any other law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
Sec. 18. - Scope of operations.
The scope of the Authority's operation shall be limited to the territory embraced within the corporate limits of Rabun County as the same now or may hereafter exist.
Sec. 19. - Conveyance of property upon dissolution.
Should the Authority for any reason be dissolved after full payment of all bonded indebtedness incurred hereunder, both as to principal and interest, title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall be conveyed to Rabun County; or title to any such property may be conveyed prior to such dissolution in accordance with provisions which may be made therefor in any resolution or trust instrument relating to such property, subject to any liens, leases, or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at the time of such conveyance.
