Chapter 18 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. § 25-1-1 et seq.; The Uniform Act for the Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200 et seq.; providing of fire escapes by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.; authority to enact ordinances or fire and life safety codes, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; firefighter standards and training, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq.; mutual aid resource pacts, O.C.G.A. § 25-6-1 et seq.; Georgia Fire Academy Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-7-1 et seq.; regulation of fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Adoption of state safety fire code.
The rules and regulations now and hereafter promulgated for the prevention of destruction of life and property by fire, explosion and related hazards in the state by the state safety fire commissioner, under authority of the powers vested in and duties imposed upon the state safety fire commissioner, are hereby adopted as the rules and regulations of the city. Reference is hereby made to the state safety fire code, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk and is hereby made a part of this Code by reference and the copy on file in the clerk's office is referred to for more particularity as to the contents of the fire code.
(Code 1978, § 11-2; Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-2)
State Law reference— Adoption of state safety fire standards, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12.
Sec. 18-2. - Illegal use of water from fire hydrant.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use water from any fire hydrant, whether public or private, for any purpose other than for the extinguishment of fires, or for lawful city purposes.
(Code 1978, § 11-4; Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-4)
Sec. 18-3. - Tampering with fire hydrant.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper or interfere with any fire hydrant of the city, except in case of fire and under instructions from the chief of the fire department, without first obtaining a permit from the superintendent of the water department or the fire chief, and without notifying the chief of the nature of such interference.
(Code 1978, § 11-5; Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-5)
Sec. 18-4. - Obstructing fire station entrance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, in any manner, the entrance to any fire station in the city.
(Code 1978, § 11-6; Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-6)
State Law reference— Obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1.
Sec. 18-5. - Riding fire vehicle without permission.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except members and officers of the fire department of the city, to mount or ride any vehicle used in connection with the fire department when such vehicle is responding to a fire call, or while the same is in attendance upon a fire, or at any other time without approval of the fire chief.
(Code 1978, § 11-11; Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-9)
Sec. 18-6. - Periodic inspections by fire chief.
The chief of the fire department or designee may inspect or cause to be inspected as often as may be necessary, but not less than one time in a one-year period in all buildings and premises, except private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire or any violations of any fire or life safety codes adopted by the city or state or the provisions or intent of any ordinance of the city affecting fire hazards.
(Code 1978, § 11-12; Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-10)
Sec. 18-7. - Abatement of hazardous conditions—Enumeration; issuing orders; appeals.
Whenever any officer or member of the fire department shall find, in any building or upon any premises or other place, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous accumulation or rubbish or oily waste in combustible receptacles; unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes, shavings or any other highly inflammable materials especially liable to cause fire, and which is so situated as to endanger property; or shall find obstruction to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows, liable to interfere with the operation of the fire department, or egress of occupants, in case of fire; or fire doors or shutters obstructed or in poor repair; or interior firefighting equipment not in serviceable condition; or any unsafe chimneys, stoves, furnaces, boilers, flues, stacks, or heating appliances, he shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and such order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant of such premises or building, subject to appeal within 24 hours to the city manager, who shall, within ten days, review such order and file his decision thereon; and unless the order is revoked or modified, it shall remain in full force and be obeyed by such owner or occupant.
(Code 1978, § 11-13; Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-11)
Sec. 18-8. - Abatement of hazardous conditions—Service of orders.
The service of any order as provided in section 18-7 shall be made upon the occupant of the premises to whom it is directed by either delivering a true copy of same to such occupant personally, or by delivering the same to and leaving it with any person in charge of the premises; or in case no such person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order upon the owner or premises, such order may be served either by delivering to and leaving with such person a true copy of the order; or if such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making the order, by mailing such copy to the owner's last-known post office address.
(Code 1978, § 11-14; Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-12)
Sec. 18-9. - Abatement of hazardous conditions—Failure to comply with order.
Any owner or occupant failing to comply with an order issued pursuant to section 18-7 within ten days after the appeal was determined, or, if no appeal is taken, then within ten days after the service of the order, shall be liable to punishment as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1978, § 11-15; Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-13)
Sec. 18-10. - Conditions for lighting fires.
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or set fire to trash, rubbish, weeds, grass, or any other combustible material, on any premises within the city without first having confined the area to be burned so as not to endanger any wood, fences, houses or any property of any description whatsoever; and before any fire shall be so set it shall be the duty of the person setting the fire or having it set, burning weeds, rubbish, etc., or having them burned, to obtain permission for so doing from the city manager or his designee.
(Code 1978, § 11-21; Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-14)
Secs. 18-11—18-38. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PRIVATE FIRE HYDRANTS

Sec. 18-39. - Authority.
This article is promulgated in order to regulate the inspection, testing, maintenance, correction, and repair of fire hydrants located on private property in the city.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-31; Ord. No. 03142016, § 1.A, 3-14-2016 )
Sec. 18-40. - Purposes.
The purposes of this article are to:
(1)
Provide standards and requirements for the inspection, testing, maintenance, correction, and repair of fire hydrants located on private property of the city.
(2)
Ensure that every private fire hydrant to which the fire department of the city connects in the event of a fire or other emergency will function as designed to produce the water necessary to respond appropriately to the fire or other emergency.
(3)
Protect the public health, safety and general welfare of the city.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-32; Ord. No. 03142016, § 1.B, 3-14-2016 )
Sec. 18-41. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency impairment means a condition where a private fire hydrant is out of service due to an unexpected occurrence, such as frozen or ruptured hydrant components or an interruption of the water supply to the system.
Fire department means the fire department of the City of Douglas.
Hydrant means a private fire hydrant as defined in this section.
Impairment means a shutdown of a private fire hydrant which renders the hydrant non-operational and therefore out of service.
Impairment tag means a tag affixed to a private fire hydrant to indicate that the hydrant is out of service. The fire department may determine the requirements of an impairment tag and the means and location of its attachment to a hydrant.
Inspection means an examination of a private fire hydrant to verify that it appears to be in operating condition and is free from physical damage.
Maintenance means work performed to keep a private fire hydrant operable or to make repairs.
NFPA Standard means Publication 25 of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) titled "Standard for the Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Water-Based Fire Protection Systems 2017."
Owner means the person that holds record title to the property upon which a private fire hydrant is located.
Owner's designee means, where the owner is not the occupant of the premises upon which a private fire hydrant is located, the occupant, management firm, or managing individual designated by the owner through specific provisions in the lease, written use agreement, or management contract owner to assume the responsibility to inspect, test, and maintain, correct and repair a private fire hydrant located on the owner's property.
Person means any institution, public or private corporation, individual, partnership, or other entity.
Pre-planned impairment means a condition where a private fire hydrant is out of service due to work that has been planned in advance.
Private fire hydrant means a valved connection to a water main for the purpose of supplying water to a fire hose or other fire protection apparatus and that is not located within the right-of-way of the city.
Qualified means having knowledge of the installation, construction, operation, maintenance, correction or repair of a fire hydrant and the hazards involved.
Record means written documentation of the inspection, testing, maintenance, correction, or repair of a private fire hydrant.
Testing means a procedure of periodic physical and operational checks used to determine whether a private fire hydrant is capable of being operated as intended and will perform as intended (e.g., water-flow tests). These tests follow up on the original tests at intervals specified in this article.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-33; Ord. No. 03142016, § 1.C, 3-14-2016 )
Sec. 18-42. - General requirements.
(a)
Responsibility for properly maintaining a private fire hydrant shall be that of the owner of the property or the owner's designee. Where the owner of a private fire hydrant has designated an occupant, management firm, or managing individual, through specific provisions in the lease, written use agreement, or management contract, to be responsible for the inspection, testing and maintenance of a private fire hydrant in accordance with this article, the owner's designee shall comply with the requirements of this article and shall be subject to enforcement of this article in the event of a failure to so comply.
(b)
By means of periodic inspections, tests, maintenance, correction, and repair, every private fire hydrant shall be maintained in proper working condition, consistent with this article, the NFPA Standard, and the manufacturer's specifications or recommendations.
(c)
Inspection, testing, maintenance, correction and repair shall be implemented with the procedures meeting or exceeding those established in this article and the NFPA Standard, and shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications or recommendations. This article shall control in the event of a conflict among any of the aforementioned applicable standards. Inspection, testing, maintenance, correction, and repair shall be performed by qualified maintenance personnel or a qualified contractor.
(d)
The owner or owner's designee shall notify the fire department of the city before testing or shutting down a private fire hydrant or its water supply. This notification shall include the purpose for the shutdown, the private fire hydrant involved, and the estimated time that the hydrant will be impaired.
(e)
The owner or owner's designee shall notify the fire department when the private fire hydrant is returned to service.
(f)
The owner or owner's designee shall, within 30 days, correct or repair any deficiencies, damaged parts, or impairments found while performing the inspection, testing, and maintenance requirements of this article.
(g)
The owner or owner's designee shall promptly correct or repair any deficiencies, damaged parts, or impairments of any private fire hydrant of which the owner or owner's designee has knowledge or, in the exercise of reasonable care, ought to have knowledge.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-34; Ord. No. 03142016, § 2.A, 3-14-2016 )
Sec. 18-43. - Inspection, testing, maintenance, correction and repair.
This section provides the minimum requirements for the routine inspection, testing, maintenance, correction, and repair of private fire hydrants. These functions shall be permitted to be carried out simultaneously.
(1)
On or before November 1 of each year, the owner or the owner's designee shall inspect, test, maintain, and, if necessary, correct, and repair each private fire hydrant to ensure proper functioning, with the necessary repair or corrective action taken as shown in Table 1. Records of these actions will be recorded pursuant to section 18-45. The owner or owner's designee shall also conduct an inspection of a private fire hydrant after each operation of the hydrant.
(2)
Opening and closing hydrants too fast can have the potential of causing some major problems as well as stir up discolored water. Designees acting or testing a hydrant on behalf of the hydrant owner shall register with the fire department of the city. Testing of any private fire hydrant as outlined in this article requires 24-hour notification to the fire department.
(3)
When conducting a test of a private fire hydrant, the hydrant shall be opened fully and water flowed until all foreign material has cleared. Flow shall be maintained for not less than one minute.
(4)
Private fire hydrants shall be lubricated annually to ensure that all stems, caps, plugs, and threads are in proper operating condition.
(5)
Private fire hydrants shall be kept free of snow, ice, or other materials and protected against mechanical damage so that free access is ensured.
(6)
The owner or the owner's designee shall repair, as soon as possible, a private fire hydrant which is impaired or otherwise does not function as required by this article, the NFPA Standard, or the manufacturer's specifications. After completing all necessary repairs to a private fire hydrant, the owner or the owner's designee shall inspect and test the hydrant as necessary, consistent with the standards of this article, including, without limitation, Table 1, to ensure that the hydrant is operational.
Table 1
EXPAND
Fire Hydrant Inspection, Maintenance and Condition Remedy
Hydrant is inaccessible Make accessible
Barrel contains water or ice (presence of either could indicate a faulty drain, a leaky hydrant valve, or a high groundwater table) Repair and drain; for high groundwater it could be necessary to plug the drain and pump out the barrel after each use
Improper drainage from barrel Repair drain
Leaks at outlets or at top of hydrant Repair or replace gaskets, packing, or parts as necessary
Cracks observed in hydrant barrel Repair cracks or replace barrel
Tightness of outlets Lubricate if necessary, tighten if necessary
Worn nozzle threads Repair or replace worn hydrant operating nut
Availability of operating wrench Make sure wrench is available
  EXPAND
Fire Hydrant Inspection, Maintenance and Condition Remedy
Cracked or peeled paint, exposed rust unpainted metal Remove rust, paint hydrant as necessary
  (Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-35; Ord. No. 03142016, § 3.A, 3-14-2016 )
Sec. 18-44. - Identification and notification of impaired hydrant.
(a)
The owner or owner's designee shall notify the city fire department in advance of a preplanned impairment of a private fire hydrant.
(b)
The owner or the owner's designee shall notify the fire department immediately of an emergency impairment of a private fire hydrant.
(c)
The owner or owner's designee shall affix an impairment tag approved by the city fire department to an impaired hydrant at the commencement of a preplanned impairment and at the time of discovery of an emergency impairment.
(d)
Once the necessary inspection and testing confirm that repairs have restored a private fire hydrant to operational status, the owner or the owner's designee shall remove the impairment tag and shall notify the city fire department that the hydrant is operational.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-36; Ord. No. 03142016, § 4.A, 3-14-2016 )
Sec. 18-45. - Records.
(a)
Records shall indicate the procedure performed to inspect, test, maintain, correct, and repair a private hydrant. Such records shall include the organization that performed the work, the results, the date work was performed, and other pertinent information as the fire department shall require.
(b)
Records shall be maintained by the owner or the owner's designee.
(c)
By December 31 of each calendar year, the owner or owner's designee shall submit to the fire chief of the city a record documenting the annual inspection, test, maintenance, correction and repair of each private fire hydrant and its components.
(d)
The owner shall retain the original purchase, installation and maintenance records of a private fire hydrant for the life of the private fire hydrant.
(e)
Inspection records shall be retained for a period of one year after the subsequent annual inspection required by this article.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-37; Ord. No. 03142016, § 5.A, 3-14-2016 )
Sec. 18-46. - Enforcement; violations and penalties.
Violations of this article are punishable as provided in section 1-11. Each hydrant and each day a violation exists, shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the enforcement procedures available, the city may pursue any remedy authorized by law, including, without limitation, the maintenance of a civil action in superior court to obtain injunctive and other appropriate relief.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 42-38; Ord. No. 03142016, § 6.A, 3-14-2016 )
