ARTICLE IV. - NATURAL GAS SYSTEM
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 38-641—38-668. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EMERGENCY CURTAILMENT PROCEDURE

Sec. 38-669. - Intent.
The city is subject to a limited supply of natural gas utilized for residential, commercial and industrial purposes throughout the city and its service area by its supplier of natural gas. In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city and those persons utilizing natural gas, it becomes necessary in times of cold weather conditions to curtail use of natural gas by various classes of customers of the city natural gas department in order to provide sufficient natural gas for residential heating and cooking purposes. Therefore, the city commission adopts the provisions in this division as an emergency gas curtailment plan.
(Code 1978, § 23-62; Code 1993, pt. II, § 30-51)
Sec. 38-670. - Curtailment.
(a)
Authority. The city manager and/or the director of the natural gas department are hereby authorized to institute curtailment and/or discontinuance of natural gas to users of the system when, in the judgment of the city manager and/or the director of the natural gas department, such curtailment and/or discontinuance of service is required to ensure the delivery of natural gas to residential users of natural gas for home heating and food preparation purposes.
(b)
Sequence. The sequence of curtailment or discontinuance of users of the natural gas system is hereby established as follows:
(1)
Interruptible gas contract users.
(2)
Industrial firm gas contract users.
(3)
Recreational gas users.
(4)
Educational institutions.
(5)
Large commercial gas users.
(6)
Small commercial gas users.
(7)
Consumers connected directly to the high-pressure gas transmission system.
(Code 1978, § 23-63; Code 1993, pt. II, § 30-52)
Sec. 38-671. - Discontinuance of natural gas not required for certain users.
The following class of users of the natural gas system may, under extreme circumstances, be required to curtail the use of natural gas, but shall not be required to discontinue such use for heating and food preparation purposes:
(1)
Hospitals.
(2)
Nursing/convalescent homes.
(3)
Pharmacies.
(4)
Doctors' offices.
(5)
Public and private emergency delivery services.
(6)
Public utility services.
(7)
Restaurants.
(Code 1978, § 23-64; Code 1993, pt. II, § 30-51)
Sec. 38-672. - Notification.
(a)
Notification authorization. The city manager and/or the director of the natural gas system and/or their designated representatives are hereby authorized to notify those users of natural gas requiring curtailment and/or their discontinuance of the use of natural gas by telephone, in person or in writing of the requirement for curtailment or discontinuance of such use of natural gas.
(b)
Required action upon receipt of notification by user. The user of natural gas, upon receipt of notification from the city manager and/or the director of the natural gas department or their authorized representative, shall immediately take appropriate steps to curtail or discontinue the use of natural gas as directed by the notification so given. In no event shall the user delay the completion of the required action by the notification beyond 30 minutes from the time the notification is received by the user.
(c)
Resumption of service. When, in the judgment of the city manager and/or the director of the natural gas department, the resumption of gas service to those users of natural gas can be accomplished, those users of the system whose supply of natural gas has been curtailed and/or discontinued shall be notified of such resumption of gas service a minimum of 30 minutes prior to such resumption of service.
(d)
Responsibility of user upon receipt of resumption notification. It shall be the responsibility of the user of natural gas, upon receipt of resumption notification, to take any and all steps necessary to ensure the safety and security of all persons and property utilizing and supervised by the user of natural gas within the 30-minute time allotted in subsection (c) of this section.
(e)
Additional time required after resumption notification. If the user of natural gas service shall require additional time for preparation of resumption of gas service to the installation served, a responsible party shall immediately notify the director of the natural gas department of such condition and request an extension of time for the resumption of service.
(Code 1978, § 23-65; Code 1993, pt. II, § 30-54)
Sec. 38-673. - Enforcement.
The city manager and/or the director of the natural gas department or their authorized representatives are hereby charged with the enforcement of this division and are hereby authorized to take all steps necessary to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions hereof, including, but not limited to, curtailment or termination of service to the violator and/or issuance of citations for violation hereof.
(Code 1978, § 23-66; Code 1993, pt. II, § 30-55)
Sec. 38-674. - Penalty.
Violation of the provisions of this division shall be punished in accordance with section 1-11.
(Code 1978, § 23-67; Code 1993, pt. II, § 30-56)
Secs. 38-675—38-690. - Reserved.
