APPENDIX A - MANUAL FOR ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS[1]

Sec. 1. - Text from Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems.
The text of this division is from the department of human resources Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems, section M, pages M-1 and M-2, and is included in this division for convenience only. In the event of any conflict between the text of this division and the referenced manual, the referenced manual shall govern.
(Prior Code § 22-331)
Sec. 2. - Lot sizing.
(a)
To provide for the orderly and safe development of property utilizing on-site sewage management systems, minimum lot sizes have been established. Larger lot sizes may be required to meet the requirements of the Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems depending on the proposed development of the property. County boards of health and/or county zoning authorities may require larger minimum lot sizes; the larger minimum lot sizes will take precedence. Lot size requirements are as follows for single-family dwellings including, but not limited to, manufactured or mobile homes, stick built homes, modular homes, etc., and individual lots in subdivisions or mobile home lots located in areas other than commercial mobile home parks. Area requirements for multiple dwellings on a single recorded lot, where not prohibited by local zoning, must be provided in multiples of the following minimum lot sizes for each dwelling to be constructed on the recorded lot. See Table MT-1 and subsections (b)—(g) of this section.
Table MT-1
Minimum Lot Sizes, Minimum Lot Widths and Maximum Allowable Sewage Flow for the Type of Water Supply System
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Size Requirements
Type of Water Supply System
Nonpublic*
(Individual)
Public
Minimum lot size 43,560 square feet (1 acre) 21,780 square feet

(half acre)
Minimum lot width 150 feet
100 feet
Maximum sewage flow 600 gallons/acre/day 1,200 gallons/acre/day
  *In this context, the term "nonpublic" means an individual water supply system or any other water supply system which is not a "public" water supply system.
(b)
The minimum lot sizes in subsection (a) of this section are for the typical size home (three-bedroom or four-bedroom) with basic appurtenances such as driveway, minimum number of trees, and water supply line. If larger homes, swimming pools, tennis courts or outbuildings, etc., are proposed to be constructed, or if trees would interfere with installation of an on-site sewage management system, the county board of health will require larger lots to ensure usable soil area.
(c)
The county board of health may also require larger lot sizes when physical factors indicate the need to do so. These factors include, but are not limited to, the availability of sufficient unobstructed land areas for an approved on-site sewage management system and approved replacement system, slope greater than five percent, percolation rates higher than 45 minutes per inch, need for subsurface drainage or adverse topographic features.
(d)
Lots shall be a minimum width of 100 feet or 150 feet measured within the area where an approved on-site sewage management system and replacement system are to be located when served by a public water supply system or nonpublic water supply system, respectively.
(e)
The following land areas are not considered as a part of a lot when calculating the required minimum lot size: rights-of-way of roads, easements (such as a power line or pipeline) that exclude installation of an on-site sewage management system, bodies of water, land within 50 feet of a lake, river, stream, wetland or other bodies of water and similar limiting factors.
(f)
There must be an unobstructed area on each lot for installation of an approved on-site sewage management system and an area equal in size for a conventional system or larger area, as appropriate, for an approved replacement system; this will include sufficient area for necessary site modifications for installation of both the initial system and a replacement system. All pertinent county zoning setbacks and other space requirements must also be met.
(g)
The maximum daily sewage flow for each lot or parcel of land shall not exceed 600 gallons per acre per day (gpad) when served by nonpublic or individual water supply system or 1,200 gpad when served by a public water supply system. When sewage flows exceed these qualities (600 or 1,200 gpad as indicated) for a given dwelling structure, the minimum lot size or parcel of land shall be increased proportionally. Example: Assume a public water supply exists (so 1,200 gpad maximum sewage flow allowed per minimum required land area of 21,780 square feet), and there is a proposed sewage flow of 5,000 gpd. To determine X = the square footage of the lot needed, use the following formula:
EXPAND
X = 5,000 gal/day; 1,200 gal/acre/day
= 4.17 acres
= 4.17 acres × 43,560 feet2/acre
= 181,600 feet2 area of land needed
  Likewise, for a nonpublic (individual) water supply, to determine Y = the square footage of the lot needed for a proposed sewage flow of 5,000 gpd, use the following formula:
EXPAND
X = 5,000 gal/day; 600 gal/acre/day
= 8.33 acres
= 8.33 acres × 43,560 feet2/acre
= 363,000 feet2 area of land needed
  (h)
Lot sizing requirements are as follows for multifamily residential dwellings, all other non-single-family dwellings and commercial structures, and this also includes mobile homes located in commercial mobile home parks. Subsections (b)—(g) of this section also apply to Table MT-2.
Table MT-2
Minimum Lot Sizes, Minimum Lot Widths and Maximum Allowable Sewage Flow for the Type of Water Supply System
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Size Requirements
Type of Water Supply System
Nonpublic*
(Individual)
Public
Minimum lot size 43,560 square feet (1 acre) 21,780 square feet

(half acre)
Minimum lot width 150 feet
100 feet
Maximum sewage flow 600 gallons/acre/day 1,200 gallons/acre/day
  *In this context, the term "nonpublic" means an individual water supply system or any other water supply system which is not a "public" water supply system.
(Prior Code § 22-332)
Sec. 3. - Criteria for protection of groundwater recharge areas.
modified
Rules of the department of natural resources, environmental protection division, chapter 391-3-16-.02 (Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. R 391-3-16-.02), require the following minimum lot sizes in the state groundwater recharge areas:
(1)
Subdivisions and individual lots. New homes served by septic tanks and absorption field systems shall be on lots having the following minimum size limitations as identified in Table MT-1:
a.
One hundred fifty percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of Table MT-1 if the lot is within a high pollution susceptibility area.
b.
One hundred twenty five percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of Table MT-1 if the lot is within a medium pollution susceptibility area.
c.
One hundred ten percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of Table MT-1 if the lot is within a low susceptibility area.
(2)
Mobile home parks. New mobile home parks served by septic tanks and absorption field systems shall be on lots having the following size limitations as identified in Table MT-2:
a.
One hundred fifty percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of Table MT-2 if the lot is within a high pollution susceptibility area.
b.
One hundred twenty five percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of Table MT-2 if the lot is within a medium pollution susceptibility area.
c.
One hundred ten percent of the subdivision minimum lot size of Table MT-2 if the lot is within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(3)
Lot size requirement. If a local government requires a larger lot size than that required by subsection (1) of this section for homes or subsection (2) of this section for mobile homes, the larger lot size shall be used.
(4)
Exemption. Local governments at their option may exempt from the requirements any lot of record prior to the date of adoption of the rules of the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division, chapter 3 91-3-16-.02, criteria for protection of groundwater recharge areas.
(Prior Code § 22-333; Ord. of 2-6-2001(1), app.)
Sec. 4. - Definitions.
modified
County Board of Health: This term shall refer to and mean the Webster County Board of Health.
County Planning Commission: This term shall refer to and mean the Webster County Board of Commissioners.
On-Site Sewage Management System: This term shall refer to and mean a sewage management system other than a public or community sewage treatment system, whether serving single or multiple buildings, mobile homes, recreational vehicles, residences of other facilities designed or used for human occupancy or congregation. Included are conventional septic tank systems, privies, experimental and alternation on-site sewage management systems, portable toilets, and other systems subject to approval by the County Board of Health.
On-Site Sewage Management System Required: Where public or community sewage treatment systems are not available, the owner, lessee or agent thereof of every building, residence or property designed, used or intended to be used for human occupancy or congregation, shall provide and approved on-site sewage management system sufficient for persons normally expected to use of frequent the building, residence or other property for two hours or more.
Standards Required: New installations, additions and repairs of on-site sewage management systems shall meet all standards and satisfy all applicable provisions set forth by the County Board of Health and the Georgia Department of Public Health. No person may begin the physical development of a lot or structure thereon, where and on-site sewage management system is required or will be utilized, nor install an on-site sewage management system without having first applied for and obtained from the County Board of Health, approval and a construction permit for the installation. No person may cover or use an on-site sewage management system until final inspection has been made by the County Board of Health to determine compliance with the provisions and standards of construction, and written approval has been issued by the County Board of Health.
Subdivision and Mobil Home Parks: No person may sell, offer for sale, lease, rent, begin construction or otherwise commence the physical development or improvement of a subdivision or mobile home park where public or community sewage treatment systems are not available or contemplated to be available to serve the proposed development until proposals and plans for the water supply and sewage disposal method to be provided or installed have been submitted to, and written approval thereof has been obtained from the County Board of Health, County Planning Commission and the Georgia Department of Public Health.
Prohibited Discharge: No person shall allow the unapproved discharge, dumping, or spillage of sewage or septage, nor shall an on-site sewage management system be used or maintained in such manner that will allow the seepage or discharge of effluent form such system to the ground surface or into a water well, abandoned well, water course, drainage ditch, open trench, canal, storm drain or storm sewer, lake, stream, river, groundwater or other body of water. Septage removal and disposal of the contents of on-site sewage management system shall be carried out in accordance with public health and environmental protection regulation. When, in the opinion of the County Board of Health, an existing on-site sewage management system presents an eminent or probable threat to public health, the use of such system shall be immediately discontinued and corrective measures shall be taken by the owner to preserve public health.
(Ord. of 9-9-2014)
