Chapter 28 - SOLID WASTE[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - Definitions.
modified
(a)
All terms used in this chapter shall have the definitions ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22, as such terms may be from time to time amended, whether such definition is set out in this section or not. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial establishment means any hotel, motel, apartment dwelling, roominghouse, business, industrial, public or semipublic establishment of any nature or kind whatsoever other than a one-family or two-family dwelling unit or condominium.
Open dump means a disposal facility at which solid waste from one or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn or to otherwise create a threat to human health or the environment.
Owner means any person owning, leasing, renting, occupying or managing any premises in the jurisdiction of the county.
Person means the state or any state agency or institution thereof, and any municipality, county, political subdivision, public or private corporation, limited liability company, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste management activities, individual, partnership, association or other entity in the state or any other state. The term "person" also includes any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality, political subdivision, solid waste authority, special district empowered to engage in solid waste activities, or public or private corporation in this state or any other state. The term "person" also includes employees, departments and agencies of the federal government.
Plastic bag means a polyethylene or other heavy-duty plastic bag meeting the National Sanitation Foundation Standard of at least 1.5 mills and not exceeding a 30-gallon capacity, with securing twist ties.
Putrescible waste means wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms. Examples of putrescible waste include, but are not necessarily limited to, kitchen wastes, animal manure, offal, hatchery and poultry processing plant wastes and garbage.
Reclamation means a controlled method of sorting and storing material from solid wastes for future use.
Refuse means garbage, rubbish or commercial solid waste.
Rubbish means discarded wastepaper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, cans, glass crockery, dunnage or similar materials.
Sanitary landfill means a disposal site where putrescible solid wastes are disposed of by means of placing an earth cover thereon and which is approved by state and federal authorities for such purpose.
Wastestream means the total flow of solid waste from residential units, commercial establishments, condominiums, apartments, institutions and the like to its ultimate disposal site or facility.
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22 (Solid Waste Management - Definitions), shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this chapter. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this chapter, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22.
(Code 2003, § 42-1)
Sec. 28-2. - Collection of sanitation/solid waste fees.
The county shall bill each solid waste customer at the end of each month, such fees as are approved by the board of commissioners, and said fees shall be due no later than the tenth of the following month, or at such time as may be designated upon the face of the bill. If the fee is not paid by the time indicated, a late fee as established by the board of commissioners from time to time shall be added to the balance due. Nonpayment of the fees provided for in this chapter shall constitute a lien against the real and personal property of the person or legal entity responsible for payment of said fees. Should any person liable for the payment of said fees fail to pay the fees within 15 days of having been billed, the chairperson of the county commission, or such person as may be authorized by the board of commissioners, shall be authorized to issue an execution against such person or legal entity and deliver the execution to the sheriff for levy and sale as provided by law.
(Res. of 5-16-2006)
Secs. 28-3—28-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MANAGEMENT DISTRICTS

Sec. 28-23. - Solid waste management district established.
A solid waste management district is created and established, composed of all that unincorporated area within the county.
(Code 2003, § 42-31)
Sec. 28-24. - System of household garbage collection.
(a)
The primary purpose of the district created by this article is to establish, maintain and operate within the district a system of household garbage collection.
(b)
The system of solid waste management shall be as follows:
(1)
The county shall locate, maintain and operate one or more landfills for the disposal of solid waste or enter into contracts for the services of other legally permitted solid waste handling facilities.
(2)
The county shall provide curbside collection of household waste to each residence and business located in the unincorporated county, provided the same is not a customer of a municipal water system operated by Preston, Weston or Richland. Each customer of the county solid waste department is required to provide his own trash receptacle or other form of storage of household waste. Each form of storage used must be placed in immediate proximity to a public road to receive service and must be of a reasonable size and weight so that it can be emptied by the personnel collecting solid waste. Commercial customers requiring dumpster (or greenbox) service shall receive the same from the county or its contractor, at the fees established by the county board of commissioners.
(3)
The county shall transport the household garbage placed in the containers to the landfill or other legally permitted solid waste handling facility.
(4)
The county may implement other measures as called for in the county's comprehensive solid waste management plan.
(Code 2003, § 42-32; Res. of 3-14-2006, § 42-32(b)(2))
Sec. 28-25. - Rules and regulations governing solid waste system.
From time to time, the board of commissioners may form and establish rules and regulations governing the use and operation of the solid waste system and to carry out the intention of this article, and instruct the chairperson/administrator and other county personnel to carry out such rules and regulations.
(Code 2003, § 42-33)
Sec. 28-26. - Authorized solid waste haulers.
Solid waste may only be collected for disposal by the county, municipalities or by sanitary contractors authorized by the county board of commissioners.
(Code 2003, § 42-34; Res. of 5-12-2003, § 1(L))
Sec. 28-27. - Solid waste contracts.
The county may enter into contracts to perform all or a part of the solid waste collection and/or disposal system; provided that such contracts are entered into in accordance with county bidding procedures.
(Code 2003, § 42-35)
Sec. 28-28. - Haulers to secure waste in vehicles.
It is unlawful for any hauler to haul, convey or cause to be conveyed any waste upon or along the public streets and roadways, except when the material transported is adequately covered in such a manner as to prevent it from falling, leaking or being blown from the transporting vehicle. The operator and/or owner of the offending vehicle shall be personally responsible for any violation of this section.
(Code 2003, § 42-36)
Sec. 28-29. - Depositing waste at landfills.
Haulers shall only deposit solid waste, except prohibited waste, at the county sanitary landfill or transfer station in accordance with the regulations of the landfill or transfer station. In no event shall haulers, except individuals transporting household garbage, deposit solid waste at county container collection sites.
(Code 2003, § 42-37)
Sec. 28-30. - Permits required prior to waste disposal.
In addition to all other requirements of this article, no sanitary landfill, inert waste landfill or other landfill dump shall be used unless the owner of property used for such a purpose and the person causing the material to be dumped have first obtained all permits as may be required by the laws of the state and a permit from the county.
(Code 2003, § 42-38)
Secs. 28-31—28-48. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICES

Sec. 28-49. - Application of article.
The provisions of this article apply to all persons presently engaged in solid waste handling as well as all persons proposing to engage in solid waste handling.
(Code 2003, § 42-71)
Sec. 28-50. - General restriction.
No person shall engage in solid waste handling in a manner which will:
(1)
Be conducive to insect and rodent infestation or the harboring and feeding of wild dogs or other animals;
(2)
Impair the air quality or the quality of the groundwater or surface water;
(3)
Impair the quality of the environment; or
(4)
Create other hazards to the public health, safety or well-being.
(Code 2003, § 42-72)
Sec. 28-51. - Exemptions.
(a)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any individual disposing of solid wastes originating from his own residence onto land or facilities owned by him when disposal of such wastes does not adversely affect the public health. Nothing in this article shall limit the right of any person to use poultry or animal manure for fertilizer.
(b)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to owners of record of all one-family and two-family dwellings, condominiums or multifamily dwelling units who dispose of solid waste by self-hauling such waste to a state-approved landfill or to a collection center operated by the county. Failure to provide evidence of proper disposal upon request by county officials (receipts, canceled checks or other proof of payment) shall be a violation of this article.
(c)
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any person collecting and disposing of municipal solid waste, commercial solid waste, construction/demolition waste or industrial waste, but not charging a fee, and who is a holder of a valid solid waste handling permit from the director of the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources pursuant to Rules 391-3-4-.02 and 391-3-4-.06 (Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. R 391-3-4-.02 and 391-3-4-.06) of the state department of natural resources' environmental protection division for disposal or on-site burial. Such disposal shall be governed by state environmental protection division regulations.
(Code 2003, § 42-73)
Sec. 28-52. - Enforcement.
(a)
Violations of any provisions of this article shall be reported initially to the sanitation department, which office is charged with administration of the provisions of this article.
(b)
The provisions of this article regarding the disposal or burial on-site of solid waste shall be enforced by the state department of natural resources' environmental protection division.
(Code 2003, § 42-74)
Sec. 28-53. - Penalties.
Any person or any employee or agent violating any provision of this article may be punished as provided in section 1-19. Each full day a violation continues may constitute a separate violation.
(Code 2003, § 42-75)
Sec. 28-54. - Prohibited acts.
(a)
No person shall engage in solid waste handling except in such a manner as to conform to and comply with this article and all applicable state and federal legislation, rules, regulations and orders.
(b)
No solid waste may be disposed of by any person in an open dump, nor may any person cause, suffer, allow or permit open dumping on his property.
(1)
A person shall be presumed to have violated this provision if, upon written notification that litter or solid waste has been dumped on that person's property, not otherwise subject to the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 16-7-51 to 16-7-54, that person fails to provide the county, within 15 days of notification, with written assurance that the accumulation of litter or solid waste will be properly disposed of within 30 days from the original date of notification.
(2)
No person who first informs the county in writing that illegal dumping has occurred on a particular parcel of that person's property shall be deemed to have violated this section, if such person provides written assurance all accumulated litter or solid waste will be properly disposed of within 45 days of the date of such written notification and subsequently provides proof of such disposal.
(Code 2003, § 42-76)
Sec. 28-55. - Responsibility of owner or occupant.
(a)
The owner or occupant of any premises, office, business establishment, institution, industry or similar facility shall be responsible for the collection and transportation of all solid waste accumulated at the premises, office, business establishment, institution or similar facility to a solid waste handling facility operating in compliance with the state environmental protection division rules and regulations unless arrangements have been made for such services with a collector operating in compliance with this article.
(b)
No owner or occupant shall allow the accumulation of solid waste on his residential unit or commercial establishment where such solid waste creates or may create a health hazard to neighbors or other citizens, or is unsightly, or emits foul or obnoxious odors which constitute either a public or private nuisance. Such conduct shall constitute a violation of this article.
(Code 2003, § 42-77)
Sec. 28-56. - Yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings shall not be placed in or mixed with solid waste. Yard trimmings shall not be disposed at any solid waste disposal facility having liners and leachate collection systems or requiring vertical expansion within the county. Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stockpiled or chipped, composted, used as mulch, or otherwise beneficially reused or recycled to the maximum extent feasible. Any yard trimmings to be collected by an entity other than the property owner shall be sorted and stored in such a manner as to facilitate collection, composting, or other handling.
(Code 2003, § 42-78)
Sec. 28-57. - General conditions of residential collection.
(a)
Occupants of one-family and two-family dwelling units, condominiums or multifamily dwelling units not served by a commercial container shall place refuse receptacles, rubbish and bundles, on assigned collection days, at roadside locations in such a manner as not to obstruct passage. Occupants shall place such refuse at appropriate locations prior to the arrival of the collection vehicles.
(b)
Occupants shall remove containers from such locations to storage locations, which shall be nearer to the residential unit located on the premises than to any street abutting the premises; removal should be accomplished within a reasonable time following collection on the day the contents are emptied and collected.
(c)
Occupants shall prevent the continued, excessive and unsightly accumulation of refuse upon their property or the public thoroughfares bounding upon such occupant's property.
(d)
It shall be a violation of this article to place or cause to be placed for collection any hazardous waste.
(e)
Solid waste generated from the conduct of customary home occupations carried on from residential dwelling units will be collected on a residential fee basis, with the owner of each residence being billed for the requisite solid waste fees, regardless of who occupied the residence.
(f)
Property owners shall not be responsible for the cost of solid waste collection during any period when the property is vacant for a calendar month, provided they have notified the county board of commissioners in writing in advance of or during that period.
(g)
Deer camps, to the extent that ownership can be determined, shall be billed for collection and disposal during its use. The amount of the rate billed shall be as established by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(Code 2003, § 42-79; Res. of 3-14-2006, § 42-79(f), (g))
Sec. 28-58. - General conditions of commercial collection.
(a)
The owner or occupant of any premises, office, business establishment, institution or industry or similar commercial establishment shall be responsible for the collection and transportation of all solid waste accumulated at such premises, establishment or facility to either a solid waste handling facility operating in compliance with state regulations with service by an approved contractor or to a collection center operated by the county; however, the county may direct such owner or occupant not to use the collection center based on the volume generated. Holders of a valid solid waste handling permit from the state department of natural resources shall be exempt from such contracting.
(b)
The county reserves the right at all times to direct and control the time, place and manner of commercial solid waste handling and disposal. Nothing in this article is intended to abridge the county's right to ownership and control of the wastestream.
(Code 2003, § 42-80)
Sec. 28-59. - Prohibition against non-customer usage.
It shall be unlawful for anyone who is not a customer of the solid waste system to use said system for the disposal of solid waste.
(Code 2003, § 42-81; Res. of 3-14-2006, § 42-81)
Secs. 28-60—28-76. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - LITTER CONTROL[2]

Sec. 28-77. - Unlawful; exceptions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave or cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of garbage, household garbage, solid waste, litter or other waste on any public or private property in the unincorporated areas of the county, unless:
(1)
The property is designated by the state or by the county for the disposal of garbage, litter or other waste and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property.
(2)
The garbage, litter and other waste is placed into a proper garbage, litter or waste receptacle, such as covered garbage cans, a dumpster, trash compactors or a designated landfill.
(Code 2003, § 42-111)
Sec. 28-78. - Collection of litter by depositor.
In addition to the other penalties authorized by this article, in the sound discretion of the judge of the court in which conviction is obtained, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public beach, public park, public right-of-way, or, with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that he has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence, and/or the court may publish the names of persons convicted of violating section 28-77.
(Code 2003, § 42-112)
Sec. 28-79. - Littering from conveyance.
Whenever household garbage, litter and other waste is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of section 28-77, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator or owner of the conveyance has violated the provisions of this article.
(Code 2003, § 42-113)
Sec. 28-80. - Tracing litter.
Except as provided in section 28-77, whenever garbage, litter or other waste which is dumped, deposited, thrown or left on public or private property in violation of this article is discovered to contain any article, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications, or other writings, which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this article.
(Code 2003, § 42-114)
Sec. 28-81. - Waste disposal generally.
(a)
The owner or occupant of any premises shall be responsible for the sanitary handling and disposition of garbage and refuse on the premises used or occupied by such person.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to dump, deposit, throw or leave or cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter at any place in the county including, without limitation, any public or private property in the county or any waters in the county unless such litter originates in the county, and:
(1)
The property is designated by the board of commissioners or its duly designated agent for disposal of litter and the person is authorized to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed into a receptacle or container installed on such property; or
(3)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare and not otherwise in violation of law.
(Code 2003, § 42-115)
Sec. 28-82. - Regulation of garbage or litter containers or receptacles.
The following regulations apply to all garbage or litter containers or receptacles:
(1)
All garbage or litter containers or receptacles shall be maintained in as sanitary a manner as is reasonably possible consistent with its use for garbage and litter disposal.
(2)
Persons using garbage or litter containers or receptacles shall deposit all authorized garbage and refuse in the container or receptacle.
(3)
No person shall deposit any burning or smoldering material in any such container or receptacle.
(4)
No person shall set fire to the contents of any such container or receptacle.
(5)
No dead animals shall be deposited in any such container or receptacle.
(6)
No person shall deposit large non-compactable articles in such containers or receptacles such as stoves, refrigerators, bed springs or tires, large tree limbs, air conditioning units, or similar items.
(7)
No one shall deposit any flammable or explosive materials in any such container or receptacle.
(8)
No person shall disturb or scatter litter in and around such containers or receptacles.
(Code 2003, § 42-116)
Sec. 28-83. - Scavenging.
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than designated employees in the performance of their normal duties, to rummage through, separate or remove any object placed in or upon such garbage container.
(Code 2003, § 42-117)
Sec. 28-84. - Defacing containers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to paint upon, deface or in any way cause any damage whatsoever to any garbage container placed upon the premises for the collection of garbage.
(Code 2003, § 42-118)
Sec. 28-85. - Solid waste; adoption by reference.
All provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 12-8-20 through 12-8-40.3 (Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act) are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as if fully set out in this Code.
(Res. of 5-12-2003, § 1(N))
