ARTICLE I. - UNIFICATION, CREATION, BOUNDARIES, STATUS, AND POWERS OF UNIFIED GOVERNMENT

Sec. 1-101. - Unification of county and city; creation of unified government; Preston-Weston-Webster County.
(a)
The governmental and corporate powers, duties, and functions now vested in the governing authority of the City of Preston, a municipal corporation chartered by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved May 17, 2004 (H.B. 1630) and the governing authority of Weston, a municipal corporation chartered by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved August 12, 1911 (Act No. 78) are hereby unified with the governmental and corporate powers, duties, and functions of Webster County. This unification shall result in the creation and establishment of a single county-wide government with powers and jurisdiction throughout the territorial limits of Webster County, which single government shall supersede and replace the governments of the City of Preston, the City of Weston, and Webster County. Said county-wide government shall be a new political entity, a body politic and corporate, and a political subdivision of the state, to be known as the "Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia," (herein at times called the "Unified Government,") having all the governmental and corporate powers, duties, and functions heretofore held by and vested in the Cities of Preston and Weston, and Webster County, and also the powers, duties, and functions provided in this Charter. The unified government shall be a public corporation; shall have perpetual existence; shall adopt a common seal; shall, without the necessity or formality of a deed, bill of sale, or other instrument of transfer, own, possess, and hold all the properties of whatsoever kind or nature, assets, contracts, franchises, things, rights, privileges, immunities, and real and personal property theretofore owned, possessed, enjoyed, or held by the Cities of Preston and Weston, and Webster County; and by the name of Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia, shall be capable of suing and being sued when authorized by this Charter and by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia. From and after the effective date of this Charter, the political subdivision known as Webster County, Georgia, and the municipal corporation known as the City of Preston, Georgia, and the municipal corporation known as the City of Weston, shall be unified into the said new political entity herein created.
(b)
The provisions of [this] Section 1-101 not withstanding, if a majority of the qualified voters of Webster County and the City of Preston casting ballots in the referendum called for approving or disapproving this Charter shall approve, and if a majority of the qualified voters of the City of Weston shall disapprove the same, the Unified Government of Webster County shall be formed, but shall not include the City of Weston, and none of the provisions of this Charter shall apply to the City of Weston.
(c)
The unification of the governments of the City of Preston, the City of Weston, and Webster County is authorized pursuant to the provisions of Article IX, Section III, Paragraph II(a) of the Constitution of Georgia of 1983, as amended, and an Act establishing the Preston-Weston-Webster County Charter and Unification Commission, approved April 19, 2006 (Ga. L. H.B. No. 1298, Act 493).
Sec. 1-102. - Boundaries.
The unified government shall embrace the total area included within the existing territorial limits of Webster County as such limits are fixed and established on the effective date of this Charter, provided however that if a majority of the qualified voters of Weston casting ballots upon the referendum to approve or disapprove this Charter shall disapprove, the territorial limits of the City of Weston shall not be included in the territorial limits of the Unified Government of Webster County. However, such limits may be altered and changed from time to time as provided by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia pertaining to counties.
Sec. 1-103. - Status of unified government as municipal corporation and county.
The unified government shall be deemed to be both a municipal corporation and a county throughout the total territory of said government. It is the express intention of this section to declare as a city and as a part of the unified government all of the area of Webster County except as otherwise provided in this Charter.
Sec. 1-104. - Powers of the unified government.
(a)
The Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia, shall have all powers of self-government authorized by the Constitution and not otherwise prohibited by the laws of Georgia.
(b)
In addition to the foregoing, the unified government shall have all rights, powers, duties, privileges, and authority that the City of Preston, the City of Weston or Webster County, or any of the preceding, have under the Constitution and general and local laws of the State of Georgia at the time of adoption of this Charter, except as herein expressly modified. This authority shall include but shall not be limited to the authority to adopt home rule ordinances and resolutions as provided in Article IX, Section II of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(c)
In addition to the foregoing, the unified government shall have all rights, powers, duties, privileges, and authority herein conferred or herein enlarged, and such other rights, powers, duties, privileges, and authority as may be necessary and proper for carrying the same into execution, and also all rights, powers, duties, privileges, and authority, whether expressed or implied, that may be now vested in or hereafter granted to counties or municipal corporations, or both, by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, including the powers vested in the unified government by this Charter.
(d)
The unified government, in addition to the rights, duties, powers, privileges, and authority expressly conferred upon it by this Charter, shall have the right, duty, power, privilege, and authority to exercise and enjoy all other powers, duties, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary and proper to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, and general welfare of said government and its constituents and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein and to do and perform all of the acts pertaining to its property, affairs, and local government which are necessary or proper in the legitimate exercise of its corporate powers and governmental duties and functions.
(e)
No enumeration of any right, power, privilege, or authority hereinafter made shall be construed as limiting or abolishing any right, power, privilege or authority hereinabove set forth.
(f)
In addition to and supplementary to all other powers which it may possess, and by way of illustration and not of limitation, the unified government shall have the powers specifically enumerated in Section 7-113 of this Charter.
Sec. 1-105. - Taxing districts.
(a)
The unified government may divide the county into two or more taxing districts. Such taxing districts may include one or more districts conterminous with the former boundaries of the City of Preston or the City of Weston, or both, and within any such districts such taxes may be levied as may be necessary to retire any respective bonded indebtedness of the City of Preston or the City of Weston, which is outstanding on the effective date of the abolishment of the City of Preston and the City of Weston. Additionally, in the taxing district of the former City of Preston, and in the taxing district of the former City of Weston, the unified government shall levy such taxes as are necessary to retire any other indebtedness of the respective cities which is outstanding on the effective date of the abolishment of the cities. Such taxing districts may also include one or more service districts.
(b)
Taxes shall be assessed, levied, and collected in accordance with the kind, character, type, degree, and level of services provided by the government within said service districts, and the rate and manner of taxation may vary in any one district from that in another or other districts.
(c)
The unified government may also establish special services districts, which shall embrace such territory or territories for which provision is made by the Commission for additional or higher levels of services provided by the unified government.
(d)
In the establishment or modification of service districts and special services districts, the unified government shall hold one or more public hearings thereon at which all interested persons affected thereby shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time, place, and date of such hearings shall be published in the official legal organ of Webster County at least once a week during the two weeks immediately preceding the date of hearing.
Sec. 1-106. - Construction.
The powers of the unified government shall be construed liberally in favor of the unified government. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of the unified government as provided in this article. It is the intention hereof to grant to the unified government full power and right to exercise all governmental authority authorized by the Constitution and laws of Georgia which is necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the unified government within its territory and for the conduct of all of its affairs.
