ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 7-101. - Application of laws; laws in force.
(a)
The general laws of the State of Georgia of a criminal nature shall be applicable to and within the limits of the unified government.
(b)
In construing the applicability of provisions of the Constitution and the general laws of Georgia which apply in general terms to either counties or municipalities, or both, and local Acts of the General Assembly that apply specifically to Webster County or the City of Preston, or the City of Weston, or any of the same, the following terms as used in such laws shall be construed to include the unified government as follows:
(1)
"County" shall be construed to include Webster County, Georgia;
(2)
"City," "town," "municipal corporation," or "municipality" shall be construed to include Webster County, Georgia;
(3)
"Commissioners of Roads and Revenues" and "Board of County Commissioners" shall be construed to include the Commission of the Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia;
(4)
"Council," "Mayor and Council," "Aldermen," and "Board of Aldermen" shall be construed to include the Commission of the Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia;
(5)
"Chairman of the Commissioners of Roads and Revenues" and "Chairman of the Board of County Commissioners" shall be construed to include the Chairperson of the Commission of the Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia;
(6)
"Mayor" shall be construed to include the Chairperson of the Commission of the Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia; and
(7)
Any other terms and provisions as used in such Acts to refer specifically to Webster County, the City of Preston, or the City of Weston, or any of the same, and the officers, employees, departments, and agencies thereof shall be construed to mean the Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia, and its officers, employees, departments, and agencies.
(c)
In construing the applicability of laws in force to the unified government, the following order shall prevail:
(1)
The Constitution of the State of Georgia;
(2)
The general laws of uniform application now in force or hereafter enacted by the General Assembly (as distinguished from general laws of local application through classification by population) applicable to municipal corporations or counties, or both;
(3)
This Charter and all ordinances and resolutions passed pursuant thereto;
(4)
Special laws applicable to Webster County, not in conflict with this Charter;
(5)
Special laws applicable to the City of Preston, not in conflict with this Charter; and
(6)
Special laws applicable to the City of Weston, not in conflict with this Charter; and
(7)
Existing ordinances and resolutions of the former City of Preston, existing ordinances and resolutions of the former City of Weston, and existing ordinances and resolutions of the former County of Webster not in conflict with this Charter.
Sec. 7-102. - Limitation on claims and service.
(a)
All contractual claims against the unified government shall be presented within 12 months after they accrue or become payable or the same as claimed, unless held by minors or other persons laboring under disabilities, who are allowed 12 months after the removal of such disability.
(b)
Service on the unified government of any suit, process, or order of court shall be served upon the Chairman.
Sec. 7-103. - Tort and nuisance liability.
The tort and nuisance liability of the unified government shall follow the law and rules of tort liability applicable to counties in Georgia.
Sec. 7-104. - Conflict of laws.
For purposes of all applicable laws, the unified government shall constitute a municipality and a county, or both. Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, if a law applicable to municipalities and the same or another law applicable to counties are in conflict, the law applicable to municipalities shall prevail.
Sec. 7-105. - Execution of assessments.
Whenever any tax or special assessment is authorized or empowered to be levied or imposed by this Charter which is required to be collected by the unified government and such is not paid within the time period specified by the Commission and no specific provision is elsewhere provided in this Charter for its collection, then the Chairman shall issue execution in the name of the unified government against such person, firm, or entity liable therefor or property subject thereto for such sums as may be due with interest at the legal rate from due date and penalties and costs. The unified government shall have the right to enforce payment of such execution by levy and sale as in the case of county taxes, and the purchaser at such sale shall acquire the same title and rights as a purchaser at a sale for county taxes. Executions issued by the Chairman of the Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia, and the levy and sale thereunder shall be governed by general law.
Sec. 7-106. - Authority to deal with federal and state agencies.
The unified government shall have the power and authority to participate in, cooperate in, and take all necessary action with respect to any and all projects, programs, and undertakings of any nature authorized by any statute, rule, or regulation of the United States, the State of Georgia, or any federal or state agency or instrumentality, including but not limited to community development, highways, aviation, aviation terminals, airports, airport facilities, marinas, ports, rail depots, municipal, area, or regional development, sewer and sewage disposal, public housing, housing for the aged, and transportation or mass transit or any phase thereof; to borrow money and issue promissory notes, general obligation bonds, or revenue bonds or a combination thereof for any such purposes in accordance with provisions of this Charter; and to execute mortgages or deeds of trust in favor of any federal agency, secured by property of which the unified government is the legal or beneficial or equitable owner, or in favor of any private agency where the loan is guaranteed by a federal agency.
Sec. 7-107. - Federal and state aid.
The unified government shall be deemed a county but shall also be deemed an incorporated city or municipality for the purpose of determining its right to receive and for the purpose of receiving state aid or grant-in-aid from the state of Georgia or from the United States or from any agency or instrumentality thereof or from any other source, public or private. The unified government shall be entitled to receive as state aid or as grant-in-aid from the State of Georgia or from the United States or from any agency or instrumentality thereof or from any other source, public or private, all funds to which a county is, or may hereafter be, entitled, and also all funds to which an incorporated city or municipality is or may be hereafter entitled, and to receive the same without diminution or loss by reason of unification. When state aid or other grant-in-aid is distributed to any county on the basis of population or area, or both, then the entire population and the total area of Webster County, Georgia, shall be considered in calculating and determining the basis for such distribution.
Sec. 7-108. - Budgets of county officers and agencies.
All elected officers and all agencies not under the direct control and jurisdiction of the Chairman, such as the Board of Health and the Board of Family and Children Services, which receive appropriations from the Commission, shall, on the same date as is applicable to budgets submitted by department heads, submit to the Chairman annual operating and capital budget requests for the ensuing fiscal year. Such budget requests, after any revisions therein by the Chairman, shall be incorporated into the overall unified government budget for submission by the Chairman to the Commission, which shall grant a hearing to any such officer or agency on such proposed budgets.
Sec. 7-109. - Existing pension rights protected.
(a)
Persons who, at the time this Charter takes effect, are employed by any office, department, board, commission, or agency of the former City of Preston shall retain all pension rights, if any, which have accrued to them under any existing pension system. The unified government shall continue in force and effect any existing pension system for city employees covered thereby who are employed by the unified government, and the services of such employees shall not be deemed to have been interrupted by the adoption of this Charter.
(b)
Persons who, at the time this Charter takes effect, are employed by any office, department, board, commission, or agency of the former County of Webster shall retain all pension rights, if any, which have accrued to them under any existing pension system. The unified government shall continue in force and effect any existing pension system for county employees covered thereby who are employed by the unified government, and the services of such employees shall not be deemed to have been interrupted by the adoption of this Charter.
Sec. 7-110. - Establishment of new pension systems; merging of existing systems.
The Commission is hereby authorized and empowered to establish and maintain a new pension system or pension systems affecting new employees and such other employees as desire to be covered thereby and to revise, combine, and consolidate any pension system in effect on the effective date of this Charter; provided, however, that in no event shall any revision, combination, or unification of any existing pension system in effect when this Charter is adopted result in the curtailment or diminishment of any right accrued under any existing pension system to any person heretofore employed by the City of Preston, Webster County, or of any agency of such former governments.
[Sec. 7-111. - Reserved.]
Sec. 7-112. - New personnel policy authorized; abolishment, amendment, merger of existing personnel policies authorized.
(a)
The Commission is hereby authorized and empowered to establish and maintain a new personnel policy affecting all employees and to revise, combine, and consolidate any personnel policies in effect on the effective date of this Charter. The services of existing employees shall not be deemed to have been interrupted by the adoption of this ordinance.
(b)
The Commission shall, upon the creation of a new personnel policy, grant to each employee of the former City of Preston and each employee of the former County of Webster, all accrued sick leave and annual leave, such as may have heretofore been established and granted under the personnel policy of each respective jurisdiction.
(c)
The adoption of this Charter shall not be deemed to revoke the election previously made by the Sheriff of Webster County and the Probate/Magistrate Judge of Webster County on February 22, 2002, and accepted by the Webster County Board of Commissioners on March 5, 2002, to include employees of those respective agencies and departments within the scope and under the provisions of the Webster County Personnel Manual and Employee Handbook.
Sec. 7-113. - Amending Charter.
This Charter may be modified, rescinded, changed, or amended by only the following methods:
(1)
An Act of the General Assembly of Georgia; or
(2)
An ordinance adopted by the Commission of the Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia, as provided for in Article IX, Section II, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 7-114. - Fidelity bonds.
All officers of the unified government, both elected and appointed, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the law or the Commission may require.
Sec. 7-115. - Examples of powers.
The powers of the Unified Government of Webster County, Georgia, shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following powers:
(1)
Ad valorem taxation: to levy, assess, and collect ad valorem taxes on all taxable property;
(2)
Other taxes: to levy, assess, and collect other taxes allowed by general law and in accordance therewith;
(3)
Business regulation and taxation: to levy, assess, and collect occupational and business taxes and to license and regulate occupations and businesses;
(4)
Appropriations: to make appropriations and expend funds for support of the unified government and any other lawful purpose;
(5)
Debts: to borrow money and issue bonds as authorized by general law;
(6)
Property: to own property and interests in property;
(7)
Gifts: to accept gifts and grants for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the unified government on such terms as the donor may impose;
(8)
Condemnation: to condemn property inside Webster County for present or future use;
(9)
Public utilities: to acquire, lease, operate, and dispose of public utilities;
(10)
Franchises: to grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and to prescribe the conditions of such franchises and contracts;
(11)
Roadways: to open, maintain, improve, and close streets and roads and to grant franchises and rights of way thereon;
(12)
Public facilities: to acquire, operate, and dispose of public buildings, public projects, parks, cemeteries, recreational facilities, and other public improvements inside Webster County;
(13)
Building regulation: to regulate the building trades and the construction of buildings and to adopt and enforce building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, heating, and air-conditioning codes;
(14)
Planning and zoning: to adopt land use plans and exercise the power of zoning, subdivision regulation, and the like;
(15)
Police power: to exercise the police power, including the power of arrest through appointed policemen, for the public safety and well-being of the citizens of Webster County;
(16)
Roadside regulation: to prohibit or regulate signs, billboards, and other items upon or adjacent to streets and roads;
(17)
Health: to prescribe and enforce health and sanitation standards;
(18)
Pollution: to regulate emissions which pollute the air and water;
(19)
Fire safety: to fix fire limits and to prescribe and enforce fire safety regulations;
(20)
Public hazards: to provide for the destruction or removal of public hazards;
(21)
Waste disposal: to provide for and regulate the collection, disposal, and recycling of garbage and wastes;
(22)
Water and sewer fees: to fix and collect water and sewer fees;
(23)
Garbage fees: to fix and collect garbage fees;
(24)
Nuisances: to define and provide for the abatement of nuisances;
(25)
Property protection: to preserve and protect the property of the unified government;
(26)
Prisoners: to provide for public work by prisoners and for their confinement;
(27)
Animal control: to regulate or prohibit the keeping of animals;
(28)
Motor vehicles: to regulate the operation and parking of motor vehicles;
(29)
Taxicabs: to regulate vehicles operated for hire in Webster County;
(30)
Pensions: to provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for employees and officers of the unified government;
(31)
Special assessments: to levy, assess, and collect special assessments to cover the cost of public improvements;
(32)
Contracts: to enter into lawful contracts and agreements;
(33)
Agencies: to create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, authorities, and agencies of the unified government and to confer appropriate authority upon them;
(34)
Penalties: to provide penalties for violations of ordinances of the unified government;
(35)
Fire protection: to operate a fire department;
(36)
Emergencies: to provide for the determination, proclamation, and combating of emergencies;
(37)
Urban redevelopment: to organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(38)
Public transportation: to organize and operate public transportation systems;
(39)
Emergency Medical Services: to operate an emergency medical service; and
(40)
General health, safety, and welfare: to define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of Webster County.
Sec. 7-116. - Section captions.
The captions to the several sections of this Charter are informative only and are not to be construed as a part thereof.
Sec. 7-117. - Effect of repeals.
No law heretofore repealed, expressly or by implication, shall be revived by the repeal herein of the repealing Act or by any provision of this Charter that disclaims an intention to repeal or affect enumerated laws.
Sec. 7-118. - Severability clause.
If any provision of this Charter or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this Charter which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this Charter are declared to be severable.
Sec. 7-119. - Repeal of conflicting laws.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Charter are hereby repealed.
