Chapter 2.16 - DISTRICT ATTORNEY

2.16.010 - Chapter applicability.
The sections set forth in this chapter shall apply to the office of the district attorney.
(Ord. 4099 Art. 10 § 170, 1942.)
2.16.020 - Bail bond duties.
A.
It shall be the duty of the district attorney to cooperate with the Superior Court, municipal court, and other courts in the county of Los Angeles, and the county counsel and all other officers concerned with the acceptance, approval, release and forfeiture of bail bonds. He shall, so far as consistent with law, assist in the enforcement of any rules adopted by the Superior Court or municipal courts in this county, with respect to bail, and perform any duties delegated to him thereby.
B.
He shall keep a calendar which shall show the names of all defendants released on bail, the date of such release, by whom ordered, and when and where the defendant is required to appear, the name and addresses of the sureties, and the amount of the bail. The calendar shall also show the date of any order of forfeiture or exoneration of any bail, by whom ordered, the date of notification to the county counsel of any forfeiture, and any other matter or thing which may be necessary to show a complete record of all actions taken with regard to bail.
C.
It shall be the duty of the district attorney to notify the county counsel of any forfeiture of bail, and to furnish the county counsel with a complete record of all facts necessary to enable the county counsel to maintain an action on any forfeited bail bond, including certified copies of minute entries and court dockets, and if the bail forfeited be cash or its equivalent, the district attorney shall notify the officer having custody of such cash or its equivalent of the fact and date of forfeiture and by whom made. The county auditor shall be given the same notification at the same time as the county counsel or other officer.
D.
The district attorney shall also notify the sureties on any forfeited bond of the fact of forfeiture by mail directed to the address given by the surety.
(Ord. 4099 Art. 10 § 171, 1942.)
2.16.030 - Use of county automobile authorized when.
When necessary in the performance of his duties, the district attorney may use the county automobile assigned to his personal use outside of the county of Los Angeles but within the state of California.
(Ord. 4099 Art. 10 § 172, 1942.)
2.16.040 - State aid for recruitment and training or district attorney investigators.
A.
The county of Los Angeles declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the state of California under the provisions of Sections 13510 (as amended by Chapter 710 of the Statutes of 1981) and 13524, Chapter 1, of Title 4, Part 4, of the California Penal Code.
B.
Pursuant to Section 13522, Chapter 1, the county of Los Angeles will adhere to the standards for recruitment and training established by the California Commission of Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST).
C.
The county of Los Angeles will allow the Commission on POST and its representatives to make such inquiries as deemed appropriate by the Commission, to ascertain that the district attorney investigators adhere to the standards for recruitment and training established by the California Commission on POST.
(Ord. 81-0052 § 1, 1981.)
2.16.050 - Types of transportation authorized during performance of duties.
The district attorney, his deputies, investigators and detectives may use any means of transportation, within or outside the county, when such transportation has been approved by competent departmental authority, in the performance of investigation of criminal cases arising in the county or in pursuit of criminals.
(Ord. 82-0091 § 1, 1982.)
