Chapter 2.210 - DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP REGISTRY

2.210.010 - Domestic partnership registry; purpose.
California law recognizes the right of unmarried adults to form committed personal relationships and to regulate those relationships voluntarily by agreement. Such relationships have come to be known and recognized in society, by businesses and by government as domestic partnerships. By common understanding, the term "domestic partnership" refers to a relationship between two adults of the same or different sexes which is characterized by mutual interdependence and an abiding concern for each other's well-being. Domestic partners generally share a common household and share financial responsibility for their joint household expenses. They frequently own property together and often authorize each other to act on each other's behalf in emergency circumstances.
Census data have shown that unmarried couples constitute an increasing proportion of American households, including those within Los Angeles County. As domestic partnerships have become more prevalent among individuals who reside or are employed within the county, a corresponding need has arisen on the part of persons in such relationships and on society's part generally for a means for such persons to give public notice of their relationships. Such notice can assist government, the partners' employers, medical personnel, and the partners' other family members and friends by informing them of the partners' shared intent to be recognized as domestic partners.
The county of Los Angeles recognizes the important public service that will be rendered by creation of a public registry for any resident of or person employed in the county who wishes to make his or her domestic partnership status a matter of public record. The county clerk presently has authority to maintain all records which are filed or deposited in his or her office pursuant to law. The purpose of the ordinance codified in this chapter is to authorize the county clerk to create a domestic partnership registry by establishing a filing system to maintain statements of domestic partnership for public inspection.
(Ord. 99-0021 § 1 (part), 1999.)
2.210.020 - Filing of domestic partnership statement; amendment.
Two persons who are at least 18 years of age, and at least one of whom is a resident of or is employed in the county of Los Angeles, may file a domestic partnership statement, signed by both partners, with the county clerk to acknowledge they have entered into a domestic partnership agreement. The statement shall be filed on the form provided by the county clerk.
The county clerk shall provide the partners a certificate showing that a domestic partnership statement was filed. Domestic partnership statements filed with the county clerk shall be maintained as public records.
If a domestic partnership statement is amended at any time by the partners, such amendment, signed by both partners, may also be filed with the county clerk. The amendment shall be filed on the form provided by the county clerk.
(Ord. 99-0021 § 1 (part), 1999.)
2.210.030 - Termination.
Either party to the domestic partnership may, at any time, file with the county clerk a statement that the partnership has been terminated. The termination statement shall be filed on the form provided by the county clerk.
(Ord. 99-0021 § 1 (part), 1999.)
2.210.040 - County clerk's records.
The county clerk shall keep a record of all domestic partnership documents. The records shall be maintained so that documents relating to amendment and termination are cross-referenced with the domestic partnership statement to which they apply. The county clerk may, at his or her discretion, photocopy or otherwise reproduce domestic partnership documents for record keeping purposes, in which event the county clerk shall mail the original document to the mailing address as shown on the document.
(Ord. 99-0021 § 1 (part), 1999.)
2.210.050 - Costs.
A.
The costs authorized under this section shall be limited to the county clerk's actual costs of administering this chapter.
B.
No domestic partnership statement shall be accepted for filing by the county clerk unless accompanied by payment of $20.00, which shall include the cost of a certificate showing that the statement was filed. No amendment of domestic partnership statement shall be accepted for filing by the county clerk unless accompanied by payment of $13.00. No statement of termination of domestic partnership shall be accepted for filing by the county clerk unless accompanied by payment of $15.00.
C.
The cost which may be charged by the county clerk for preparation of a certified copy of any domestic partnership statement, including any amendment thereto, or of any statement of termination of domestic partnership shall be $6.00. The costs of issuing an additional certificate shall be $6.00.
(Ord. 99-0021 § 1 (part), 1999.)
2.210.060 - Legal effect of filing; severability.
In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction should determine that any portion of this chapter is in conflict with any state or federal law, it is the intention of the board of supervisors that such portion alone be deemed invalid and severed from the remainder of the ordinance, which shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 99-0021 § 1 (part), 1999.)
