Chapter 2.14 - COUNTY COUNSEL

2.14.010 - Actions against county and notice of uncollected claims—Notification to county counsel.
It shall be the duty of the head of each office or department to notify the county counsel in writing of each and every claim for money, damages or redress of any kind whatsoever in favor of the county, or in which the county is interested, which is uncollected after due diligence and which justifies suit for collection, to the end that suit may be filed within the time allowed by law; and it shall be the duty of the head of each office or department to transmit to the county counsel immediately any and all pleadings or papers served upon such officer in any action or proceeding against such officer in his official capacity or against the county.
(Ord. 4099 Art. 3 § 91, 1942.)
2.14.020 - Suits or claims—Settlement procedure.
A.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, where, in the opinion of the county counsel, the board of supervisors may legally compromise or settle any claim or suit by or against the county, or any officer thereof, the county counsel shall report to the board of supervisors the results of his investigation concerning such suit or claim, together with such recommendation for its disposition as he may have, for the information of the board of supervisors in its action.
B.
Where, after proper claim has been filed and upon investigation by the county counsel, he finds that there exists a probable liability on the part of the county of Los Angeles as to a claim or suit, and where the amount necessary to be expended in order to pay, settle or compromise such claim or suit does not exceed the sum of $20,000.00, the county counsel is authorized to pay, settle or compromise such claim or suit pending against the county of Los Angeles, or any officer or employee thereof for which the county may ultimately be liable, in an amount not exceeding $20,000.00, as to any person, firm or corporation, without the necessity of first receiving the approval of the board of supervisors.
C.
The county counsel is further authorized to settle or compromise any claim or suit of the county of Los Angeles against third parties, where he finds there exists a reasonable doubt or dispute as to the validity of said claim or suit, and where the amount claimed or prayed for does not exceed the sum of $20,000.00, without the necessity of first receiving the approval of the board of supervisors. The county counsel is authorized to execute and deliver to said third parties any and all releases, covenants not to sue, satisfactions of judgment, and any other instrument in writing necessary or advisable to be executed and delivered to said third parties in connection with the settlement of such claims or suits.
(Ord. 82-0075 § 1, 1982: Ord. 10926 § 1, 1974: Ord. 4099 Art. 3 § 92, 1942.)
