Chapter 1.20 - JUDICIAL DISTRICTS
Parts:
Part 1 - DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED

1.20.010 - Establishment and description.
The county of Los Angeles is hereby divided into judicial districts, and the judicial districts hereinafter named in this chapter are hereby established, and the descriptions of the boundaries thereof shall be as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 5791 § 1, 1951.)
1.20.020 - Alhambra Judicial District.
The Alhambra Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the most westerly southwesterly corner of the city of Alhambra; thence northerly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to an angle point in the boundary of the city of San Marino (at or near the intersection of Garfield Avenue and Huntington Drive); thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Duarte Road; thence easterly along said centerline to the boundary of the city of Arcadia; thence southerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Temple City (in Lemon Avenue); thence southerly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the first angle point in the boundary of the city of Rosemead; thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Rosemead and following the same in all its various courses to the most easterly corner of Lot 26 of Tract No. 7685 as shown on map filed in Book 130, page 14 of Maps, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Montebello and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the most westerly northwesterly corner of said last-mentioned city (at the intersection of Pomona Boulevard and Gerhart Avenue); thence westerly and northerly along the boundary of the city of Monterey Park and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 12135 § 1 (part), 1980: Ord. 11022 § 1 (part), 1974: Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7824 § 1 (part), 1960: Ord. 7627 § 1 (part), 1959: Ord. 6818 § 1, 1955: Ord. 5791 § 2, 1951.)
1.20.030 - Antelope Judicial District.
The Antelope Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the northerly boundary of the county of Los Angeles with the range line between Ranges 15 and 16 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along the boundary of said county and following the same in all its various courses to the south line of Section 18, Township 3 North, Range 7 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along the south line of said section to the east line of Section 13, Township 3 North, Range 8 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along the east line of said last-mentioned section to the southeast corner thereof; thence westerly along section lines to the southeast corner of Section 15, Township 3 North, Range 11 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along section lines to the northeast corner of Section 3, said last-mentioned township and range; thence westerly along section lines to the northeast corner of Section 6, said last-mentioned township and range; thence southerly along section lines to the southeast corner of Section 31, said last-mentioned township and range; thence westerly along the south line of said last-mentioned section to the southwest corner thereof; thence northerly along the west line of said last-mentioned section to the northeast corner of Section 1, Township 2 North, Range 12 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along section lines to the northwest corner of Section 6, said last-mentioned township and range; thence northerly along range line to the township line between Township 3 and 4 North, S.B.M.; thence westerly along township line to the southeast corner of Section 32, Township 4 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along section lines to the southeasterly right-of-way line of the Antelope Valley Freeway; thence northeasterly along said southeasterly right-of-way line to the range line between Ranges 13 and 14 West S.B.M.; thence northerly along range line to the northwesterly right-of-way line of the Antelope Valley Freeway; thence southwesterly along said northwesterly right-of-way line to the east line of Section 17, Township 4 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along section lines to the northeast corner of Section 5, Township 5 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M; thence westerly along the township line between Townships 5 and 6 North, S.B.M. to the southwest corner of Section 31, Township 6 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M; thence northerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Section 19, said last-mentioned township and range; thence easterly and northerly along the south and east lines of said last-mentioned section to the northeast corner thereof; thence westerly along the north line of said last-mentioned section and the westerly prolongation thereof to the range line between Ranges 15 and 16 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along said last-mentioned range line to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 88-0035 § 1, 1988: Ord. 87-0037 § 1, 1987: Ord. 83-0168 § 1, 1983: Ord. 12386 § 1, 1981: Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 5791 § 3, 1951.)
1.20.040 - Beverly Hills Judicial District.
The Beverly Hills Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the northeasterly corner of Lot B of the Doheny Ranch Tract, as shown on map recorded in Book 24, page 91 of Maps, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles, said northeasterly corner being an angle point in the boundary of the city of Beverly Hills; thence southerly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 5791 § 4, 1951.)
1.20.050 - Burbank Judicial District.
The Burbank Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the most northerly northwesterly corner of the city of Burbank; thence easterly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 5791 § 5, 1951.)
1.20.070 - Citrus Judicial District.
The Citrus Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
A.
Parcel 1.
1.
Beginning at the northwest corner of Section 19, Township 3 North, Range 9 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along section lines to the range line between Ranges 8 and 9 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along said range line to the centerline of the Iron Fork of the San Gabriel River; thence southeasterly along the centerline of said Iron Fork and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of the San Gabriel River; thence southerly along the centerline of the San Gabriel River and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the north and south quarter section line in Section 27, Township 2 North, Range 9 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along quarter section lines to the boundary of the city of San Dimas; thence southerly along the boundary of the city of San Dimas and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the section line between Sections 20 and 21, Township 1 South, Range 9 West, as shown on Recorder's Filed Map No. 566, on file in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence southerly along section lines to the boundary of the city of Walnut; thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the most easterly corner of Tract No. 12052 as shown on map recorded in Book 233, pages 13 and 14 of Maps, in the office of said recorder; thence westerly and northwesterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned tract to the boundary of Tract No. 3546, as shown on map recorded in Book 40, pages 82 and 83 of said Maps; thence southwesterly and westerly along the boundary of said last-mentioned tract to the range line between Ranges 9 and 10 West, S.B.M. (as said range line is determined by projecting the government range lines); thence southerly along said projected range line to the boundary of the city of Walnut; thence westerly along the boundary of the city of Walnut and following the same in all its various courses to the northerly line of Valley Boulevard; thence southerly along the boundary of the city of West Covina to the boundary of the city of Industry; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Industry and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Water Street; thence continuing westerly along the boundary of the city of Industry and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of the Los Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad company's right-of-way (Riverside Branch);
2.
Thence easterly along the centerline of said right-of-way to the centerline of Water Street; thence southeasterly along the centerline of Water Street to the boundary of the city of Industry; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Industry and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Water Street; thence southeasterly along the centerline of Water Street to the centerline of Walnut Drive; thence southwesterly and westerly along the centerline of Walnut Drive to the centerline of Brea Canyon Cut-Off Road; thence southerly along the centerline of Brea Canyon Cut-Off Road and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Brea Canyon Road; thence southwesterly along the centerline of Brea Canyon Road and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the southerly boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence westerly along the boundary of the county of Los Angeles to the southeasterly boundary of the Rancho La Habra, as shown on map recorded in Book 1, pages 275 and 276 of Patents, in the office of said recorder;
3.
Thence northeasterly along the boundary of said Rancho La Habra to the northeasterly corner thereof, said last-mentioned corner being also an angle point in the boundary of the Rancho La Puente, as shown on map recorded in Book 1, pages 43 and 44 of said Patents; thence northwesterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned rancho and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Hacienda Boulevard; thence northerly along the centerline of Hacienda Boulevard and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Industry; thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Industry and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of La Puente (at the intersection of Nelson Avenue and Puente Avenue); thence southeasterly along the boundary of the city of La Puente and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Hacienda Boulevard; thence northerly and northeasterly along the centerline of Hacienda Boulevard to the centerline of Francisquito Avenue (from the northwest); thence northwesterly along the centerline of Francisquito Avenue to the boundary of the city of La Puente; thence northeasterly along the boundary of the city of La Puente to the boundary of the city of West Covina; thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of West Covina and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Willow Avenue; thence northwesterly along the centerline of Francisquito Avenue to the boundary of the city of Baldwin Park; thence southwesterly along the boundary of the city of Baldwin Park and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Francisquito Avenue; thence northwesterly along the centerline of Francisquito Avenue to the boundary of the city of Baldwin Park; thence southwesterly along the boundary of the city of Baldwin Park and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Irwindale; thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Irwindale and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Azusa;
4.
Thence northeasterly along the boundary of the city of Azusa and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the north and south quarter section line of Fractional Section 22, Township 1 North, Range 10 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along quarter section lines to the township line between Townships 1 and 2 North, S.B.M.; thence westerly along said township line to the range line between Ranges 10 and 11 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along range line to the township line between Townships 2 and 3 North, S.B.M.; thence easterly along township line to the southwest corner of Section 31, Township 3 North, Range 9 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along section lines to the point of beginning.
5.
Excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries: Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of the San Gabriel River with the south line of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 22, Township 1 North, Range 10 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the boundary of the city of Azusa to the centerline of the San Gabriel River; thence northeasterly along said centerline to the point of beginning.
6.
Also excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries: Beginning at the intersection of the boundary of the city of Glendora, along the northerly line of Alosta Avenue, with the east line of Section 32, Township 1 North, Range 9 West of the Subdivision of Rancho Addition to San Jose and a portion of Rancho San Jose as shown on map recorded in Book 22, pages 21 to 23 inclusive of Miscellaneous Records in the office of the Recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence northerly along section line to the centerline of Compromise Line Road; thence southeasterly along said centerline to said boundary of the city of Glendora; thence westerly along said boundary to the point of beginning.
7.
Also excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries: Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Glendora (along the southerly line of Alosta Avenue), said angle point being in the westerly line of Lot 7 as shown on map of Subdivision Part of Sections 33 and 34 Township 1 North, Range 9 West and Part of Sections 4 and 3, Township 1 South, Range 9 West within Rancho San Jose Addition, recorded in Book 60, page 8 of Miscellaneous Records, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence southerly along said boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
B.
Parcel 2. Beginning at the northeasterly corner of Lot B of Tract No. 10345 as shown on map recorded in Book 160, pages 17 and 18 of Maps, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence southerly along section line to the boundary of the city of San Dimas; thence southwesterly along said boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7864 § 1 (part), 1960: Ord. 7480 § 1 (part), 1959: Ord. 7238 § 1 (part), 1957: Ord. 7133 § 1, 1957; Ord. 6887 § 1 (part), 1956: Ord. 6248 § 1 (part), 1953: Ord. 6172 § 1, 1953: Ord. 5791 § 6.5, 1951.)
1.20.080 - Compton Judicial District.
The Compton Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the northwesterly corner of Block A of Watts Park Tract, as shown on map recorded in Book 8, page 70, of Maps, in the office of the Recorder of the County of Los Angeles; thence easterly along the northerly line of said block to the boundary of the city of Lynwood; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Lynwood and following the same in all its various courses to the southwesterly corner of the Imperial Bridge Territory exclusion from the city of South Gate (in Century Boulevard); thence easterly along the southerly line of said exclusion to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Paramount; thence southeasterly along the boundary of said city of Paramount, and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Long Beach (along Downey Avenue); thence northerly along the boundary of said city of Long Beach and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Los Angeles (at or near the intersection of Hesperian Avenue and 223rd Street); thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7238 § 1 (part), 1957: Ord. 5791 § 7, 1951.)
1.20.090 - Culver Judicial District.
The Culver Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the most southerly corner of Overland-Mesmer Annexation to the city of Culver City (at Jefferson Boulevard and Mesmer Avenue); thence northwesterly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to the southwesterly corner of Angeles Mesa Addition No. 6 to the city of Los Angeles; thence easterly along the boundary of said Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the northerly line of that portion of Slauson Avenue shown as Parcel 15 on map filed as Exhibit A in Case No. 267025 of the Superior Court of the state of California for the county of Los Angeles; thence westerly along said northerly line and continuing westerly along the northerly line of Slauson Avenue 100 feet wide as shown on said map to the boundary of the city of Culver City; thence southerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the most southerly corner of Centinela-Slauson Annexation No. 1 to the city of Culver City; thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the most southerly corner of the exclusion from the city of Los Angeles (Marina Del Rey Small Craft Harbor), said last-mentioned corner being in the northeasterly line of Block 13 of Del Rey Beach as shown on map recorded in Book 6, pages 186 and 187 of Maps, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence northeasterly along the boundary of said exclusion and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the most easterly corner thereof; thence northeasterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7024 § 1, 1956; Ord. 6782 § 1 (part), 1955: Ord. 5897 § 1, 1952: Ord. 5791 § 8, 1951.)
1.20.100 - Downey Judicial District.
The Downey Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
A.
Parcel 1. Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of the Rio Hondo Channel (500 feet wide), as shown on County Surveyor's Filed Map No. 18225, Sheet 8, on file in the office of the county engineer of the county of Los Angeles, with the centerline of Telegraph Road; thence southeasterly along the boundary of the city of Downey and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Norwalk; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Norwalk and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Downey; thence westerly along the boundary of the city of Downey and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
B.
Parcel 2. Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Imperial Highway and the boundary of the city of Santa Fe Springs (along Shoemaker Avenue); thence easterly along said centerline of Imperial Highway to the boundary of the city of La Mirada; thence easterly along said boundary of the city of La Mirada and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Imperial Highway; thence easterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence southerly along the boundary of the county of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses to the boundary of the city of Cerritos; thence northerly along said last-mentioned boundary to the boundary of the city of Santa Fe Springs; thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Santa Fe Springs and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 8083 § 1 (part), 1961: Ord. 7824 § 1 (part), 1960: Ord. 7238 § 1 (part), 1957: Ord. 7009 § 1 (part), 1956: Ord. 5791 § 9, 1951.)
1.20.110 - East Los Angeles Judicial District.
The East Los Angeles Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Third Street with the easterly boundary of the city of Los Angeles (in Indiana Street); thence northerly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to the northwesterly corner of the city of Monterey Park; thence southerly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the most westerly northwesterly corner of the city of Montebello; thence easterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses to the boundary of the city of Commerce; thence southwesterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the southerly boundary of said city of Los Angeles; thence easterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7747 § 1 (part), 1960: Ord. 5791 § 10, 1951.)
1.20.120 - Glendale Judicial District.
The Glendale Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the northwest corner of Section 18, Township 3 North, Range 15 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along section lines to the range line between Ranges 14 and 15 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along said range line to the township line between Townships 3 and 4 North, S.B.M.; thence easterly along said township line to the range line between Ranges 12 and 13 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along said last-mentioned range line to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Pasadena, said angle point being at the northeast corner of Section 24, Township 2 North, Range 13 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Glendale; thence southerly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Burbank; thence northeasterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the range line between Ranges 15 and 16 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along said last-mentioned range line to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 5791 § 12, 1951.)
1.20.130 - Inglewood Judicial District.
The Inglewood Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
A.
Parcel 1. Beginning at the most southerly corner of Centinela-Slauson Annexation No. 1 to the city of Culver City; thence southeasterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the northerly line of that portion of Slauson Avenue shown as Parcel 15 on map filed as Exhibit A in Case No. 267025 of the Superior Court of the state of California for the county of Los Angeles; thence westerly along said northerly line and continuing westerly along the northerly line of Slauson Avenue 100 feet wide, as shown on said map, to the boundary of the city of Culver City; thence southerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
B.
Parcel 2. Beginning at the northeast corner of Lot 4 of Fractional Section 20, Township 2 South, Range 14 West, S.B.M., said corner being an angle point in the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence easterly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Gardena; thence westerly along the boundary of said city of Gardena and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Rosecrans Avenue; thence westerly along said centerline to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Hawthorne; thence southwesterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of El Segundo; thence westerly along the boundary of said city of El Segundo and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of said city of Los Angeles (in the Pacific Ocean); thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Isis Avenue (at 116th Street); thence southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of 118th Street; thence easterly along said last-mentioned centerline to its first intersection with the boundary of Parcel Map No. 18568, as shown on map filed in Book 213, pages 76 to 85 inclusive, of Parcel Maps, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence southerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the northerly terminus of that certain course having a bearing and length of N 00° 05'53" W 306.99 feet in the westerly boundary of Parcel 1 of said parcel map; thence southerly along said certain course and its southerly prolongation to the centerline of 119th Place; thence easterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of La Cienega Boulevard; thence northerly along said last-mentioned centerline to its intersection with the boundary of the city of Los Angeles (at 116th Street); thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 99-0045 § 2, 1999: Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7747 § 1 (part), 1960: Ord. 6782 § 1 (part), 1955: Ord. 5791 § 13, 1951.)
1.20.140 - Long Beach Judicial District.
The Long Beach Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the northwesterly corner of the city of Long Beach (near the westerly terminus of the northerly line of 72nd Street in said city); thence easterly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to the south line of Section 25, Township 4 South, Range 12 West in the Rancho Los Alamitos as shown on map recorded in Book 700, pages 138 to 141 inclusive, of Deeds, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence easterly along said south line to the southeasterly boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence southwesterly along the boundary of said county and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Los Angeles (in the Pacific Ocean); thence northwesterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the northerly boundary of the city of Long Beach (in 223rd Street); thence easterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
1.
Excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries: Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Long Beach, said angle point being in the westerly line of Lot 10 in Block 28 of the California Cooperative Colony Tract, as shown on map recorded in Book 21, pages 15 and 16 of Miscellaneous Records, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence northerly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
2.
Also excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries: Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Long Beach at the intersection of South Street and Cherry Avenue; thence easterly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
3.
Also excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries: Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Long Beach at the intersection of Wardlow Road and Woodruff Avenue; thence westerly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
4.
Also excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries: Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Long Beach at the intersection of Woodruff Avenue and Conant Street; thence northerly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 5791 § 14, 1951.)
1.20.150 - Los Angeles Judicial District.
Los Angeles Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
All of Santa Catalina Island and San Clemente Island, both lying in the Pacific Ocean southwesterly from the Los Angeles Harbor.
Beginning at the northwest corner of Lot 2, Fractional Section 23, Township 2 North, Range 17 West, S.B.M., said corner being an angle point in the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence easterly along said boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the most westerly northwesterly corner of the city of Huntington Park (in Slauson Avenue); thence southerly, easterly, southerly and easterly along the boundary of the city of Huntington Park to the centerline of Alameda Street (from the south); thence southerly along said centerline to the westerly prolongation of the northerly line of that certain parcel of land described in deed recorded in Book 19191, page 373 of Official Records, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence easterly along said prolongation to the westerly boundary of the city of South Gate (along Alameda Street); thence southerly along the boundary of the city of South Gate to the northerly boundary of the city of Lynwood (along 103rd Street); thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary of the city of Los Angeles; and following the same in all its various courses and curves to an angle point in the boundary of the city of Long Beach (in the Pacific Ocean); thence westerly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its intersection with the centerline of La Cienega Boulevard (at 116th Street); thence southerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of 119th Place; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the southerly prolongation of that certain course having a bearing and length of N 00° 05'53" W 306.99 feet in the westerly boundary of Parcel 1 of Parcel Map No. 18568, as shown on map filed in Book 213, pages 76 to 85 inclusive, of Parcel Maps, in the office of said recorder; thence northerly along said last-mentioned prolongation and continuing northerly along the boundary of said parcel map and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of 118th Street; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the centerline of Isis Avenue; thence northerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the boundary of the city of Los Angeles (along 116th Street); thence westerly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the most westerly corner of the city of El Segundo (in the Pacific Ocean); thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles to the most southerly corner of the city of Santa Monica (in the Pacific Ocean); thence northeasterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the most westerly corner of the city of Santa Monica (in the Pacific Ocean); thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
Excepting therefrom those portions thereof within the boundaries of the judicial districts listed below:
Beverly Hills;
Culver;
Inglewood;
Santa Monica.
(Ord. 99-0045 § 3, 1999: Ord. 94-0091 § 3, 1994: Ord. 84-0239 § 1, 1984: Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 5791 § 15, 1951.)
1.20.160 - Los Cerritos Judicial District.
The Los Cerritos Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
A.
Parcel 1. Beginning at the most westerly southwesterly corner of the city of Bellflower; thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Bellflower and following the same in all of its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Norwalk; thence southerly along the boundary of the city of Norwalk and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the westerly line of Shoemaker Avenue; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Cerritos and following the same in all its various courses to the boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence southerly along the boundary of the county of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses to the boundary of the city of Long Beach; thence westerly along the boundary of the city of Long Beach and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
B.
Parcel 2. Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Long Beach at the intersection of Woodruff Avenue and Conant Street; thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Long Beach and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
C.
Parcel 3. Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Long Beach at the intersection of Wardlow Road and Woodruff Avenue; thence westerly along the boundary of the city of Long Beach and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
D.
Parcel 4. Beginning at the intersection of the boundary of the county of Los Angeles, with the south line of Section 25, Township 4 South, Range 12 West, in the Rancho Los Alamitos, as shown on map recorded in Book 700, pages 138 to 141 inclusive, of Deeds, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence westerly along said south line to the boundary of the city of Long Beach; thence northeasterly along the boundary of the city of Long Beach and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence southwesterly along the boundary of said county and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
E.
Parcel 5. Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Long Beach, said angle point being in the westerly line of Lot 10 in Block 28 of the California Cooperative Colony Tract, as shown on map recorded in Book 21, pages 15 and 16 of Miscellaneous Records, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Long Beach and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
F.
Parcel 6. Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Long Beach at the intersection of South Street and Cherry Avenue; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Long Beach and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7938 § 2, 1961; Ord. 7873 § 1, 1960; Ord. 7824 § 3 (part), 1960: Ord. 7238 § 1 (part), 1957: Ord. 7009 § 1 (part), 1956: Ord. 5791 § 16, 1951.)
1.20.170 - Malibu Judicial District.
The Malibu Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
A.
Parcel 1. Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Los Angeles, said angle point being the southwest corner of the southeast quarter of Fractional Section 9, Township 1 North, Range 17 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of the county of Los Angeles (in the Pacific Ocean); thence westerly along the boundary of said county and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence easterly along the boundary of said city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
B.
Parcel 2. Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the county of Los Angeles in Section 21, Township 2 North, Range 17 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along said boundary to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence southerly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to the northwest corner of Lot 4 of Fractional Section 33, said township and range; thence northerly along the boundary of said county to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 5791 § 17, 1951.)
1.20.180 - Newhall Judicial District.
The Newhall Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the northwest corner of the county of Los Angeles, said corner being on the north line of Section 4, Township 8 North, Range 19 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along the boundary of said county to the range line between Ranges 15 and 16 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along said range line to the westerly prolongation of the north line of Section 19, Township 6 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along said prolongation and north line of said Section 19 to the northeast corner thereof; thence southerly and westerly along the east and south lines of said last-mentioned section to the southwest corner thereof; thence southerly along section lines to the township line between Townships 5 and 6 North, S.B.M.; thence easterly along said township line to the northeast corner of Section 5, Township 5 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along section lines to the northwesterly right-of-way line of the Antelope Valley Freeway; thence northeasterly along said northwesterly right-of-way line to the range line between Ranges 13 and 14 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along range line to the southeasterly right-of-way line of the Antelope Valley Freeway; thence southwesterly along said southeasterly right-of-way line to the east line of Section 8, Township 4 North, Range 14 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along section lines to the southeast corner of Section 32, said last-mentioned township and range; thence westerly along the township line between Townships 3 North and 4 North, S.B.M. to the range line between Ranges 14 and 15 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along said last-mentioned range line to the southeast corner of Section 12, Township 3 North, Range 15 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along section lines to the range line between Ranges 15 and 16 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along said last-mentioned range line to the northeasterly boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence northwesterly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to the westerly boundary of said county; thence northerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 88-0035 § 2, 1988: Ord. 87-0037 § 2, 1987: Ord. 83-0168 § 2, 1983: Ord. 12386 § 2, 1981: Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7441 § 1, 1959; Ord. 5791 § 17.5, 1951.)
1.20.190 - Pasadena Judicial District.
The Pasadena Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the northwest corner of Section 6, Township 2 North, Range 12 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly and southerly along the northerly and easterly lines of said township to the northwest corner of Section 6, Township 2 North, Range 11 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along section line to the northeast corner of said last-mentioned section; thence southerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Section 8, Township 1 North, Range 11 West, S.B.M.; said last-mentioned corner being also an angle point in the boundary of the city of Sierra Madre; thence easterly along the boundary of said city to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Arcadia; thence southerly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to an angle point therein, at or near the northeasterly corner of Foothill Boulevard and Michillinda Avenue; thence southerly in a direct line to an angle point in the boundary of said last-mentioned city at or near the southeasterly corner of Foothill Boulevard and Michillinda Avenue; thence southerly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Duarte Road; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the boundary of the city of San Marino; thence southerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of South Pasadena; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Pasadena; thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the northeast corner of Section 24, Township 2 North, Range 13 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along the range line between Ranges 12 and 13 West, S.B.M. to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 5791 § 18, 1951.)
1.20.200 - Pomona Judicial District.
The Pomona Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
A.
Parcel 1. Beginning at the northwest corner of Section 19 Township 3 North Range 8 West S.B.M.; thence easterly along section lines to the range line between Ranges 7 and 8 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along said range line to the northwest corner of Section 19, Township 3 North, Range 7 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along the north line of said last-mentioned section to the easterly boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence southerly along the boundary of said county and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Brea Canyon Road; thence northeasterly along the centerline of Brea Canyon Road to the centerline of Brea Canyon Cut-off Road; thence northwesterly along the centerline of Brea Canyon Cut-off Road and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Walnut Drive; thence easterly and northeasterly along the centerline of Walnut Drive to the centerline of Water Street; thence northwesterly along the centerline of Water Street to the boundary of the city of Industry; thence northeasterly along the boundary of said city, and following the same in all its various courses, to the centerline of Water Street; thence northwesterly along the centerline of Water Street to the centerline of Los Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad Company's right-of-way (Riverside Branch); thence westerly along the centerline of said right-of-way to the boundary of said city; thence northerly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of West Covina; thence northerly along the boundary of the city of West Covina to the boundary of the city of Walnut; thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Walnut and following the same in all its various courses to the intersection of the range line between Ranges 9 and 10 West, S.B.M. (as said range line is determined by projecting the government range lines) and the southerly boundary of Tract No. 2371 as shown on map recorded in Book 23, pages 98 and 99 of Maps, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence northerly along said last-mentioned projected range line to the southerly line of Tract No. 3546 as shown on map recorded in Book 40, pages 82 and 83 of said Maps; thence easterly and northeasterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned tract to the boundary of Tract No. 12052 as shown on map recorded in Book 233, pages 13 and 14 of said Maps; thence southeasterly and easterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned tract to the most easterly corner thereof; thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Walnut and following the same in all its various courses to section line between Sections 28 and 29, Township 1 South, Range 9 West, as shown on Recorder's Filed Map No. 566 on file in the office of said recorder; thence northerly along section lines to the boundary of the city of San Dimas; thence westerly along the boundary of the city of San Dimas and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the center of Section 22, Township 1 North, Range 9 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along quarter section line to the centerline of the San Gabriel River; thence southeasterly along the centerline of said river and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of the Iron Fork of said river; thence northwesterly along the centerline of said Iron Fork and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the range line between Ranges 8 and 9 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along said last-mentioned range line to the point of beginning.
Excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries: Beginning at the northeasterly corner of Lot B of Tract No. 10345 as shown on map recorded in Book 160, pages 17 and 18 of Maps, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence southerly along section line to the boundary of the city of San Dimas; thence southwesterly along said boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
B.
Parcel 2. Beginning at the intersection of the boundary of the city of Glendora, along the northerly line of Alosta Avenue, with the east line of Section 32, Township 1 North, Range 9 West of the Subdivision of Rancho Addition to San Jose and a portion of Rancho San Jose, as shown on map recorded in Book 22, pages 21 to 23 inclusive, of Miscellaneous Records, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence northerly along section line to the centerline of Compromise Line Road; thence southeasterly along said centerline to said boundary of the city of Glendora; thence westerly along said boundary to the point of beginning.
C.
Parcel 3. Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Glendora (along the southerly line of Alosta Avenue), said angle point being in the westerly line of Lot 7 as shown on map of Subdivision Part of Sections 33 and 34 Township 1 North, Range 9 West and Part of Sections 4 and 3, Township 1 South, Range 9 West within Rancho San Jose Addition recorded in Book 60, page 8 of Miscellaneous Records, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence southerly along said boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7864 § 1 (part), 1960: Ord. 7480 § 1 (part), 1959: Ord. 6958 § 1, 1956: Ord. 6248 § 1 (part), 1953: Ord. 5791 § 18.2, 1951.)
1.20.210 - Rio Hondo Judicial District.
A.
Parcel 1. Beginning at the intersection of the southeasterly boundary of the city of Arcadia with the southwesterly boundary of the Azusa Rancho as shown on map recorded in Book 2, pages 560 and 561, of Patents, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence southeasterly along the southwesterly boundary of said rancho to the boundary of the city of Monrovia; thence southerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the boundary of said city of Arcadia; thence northerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
B.
Parcel 2. Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the City of Rosemead, said angle point being in the southwesterly line of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company right of way (Main Line to Yuma), said angle point also being in the southwesterly boundary of the City of Temple City; thence southeasterly along the boundary of the City of Temple City and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of the City of Arcadia; thence easterly along the boundary of the City of Arcadia and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of the City of Irwindale; thence southerly along the boundary of the City of Irwindale to the boundary of the City of Baldwin Park; thence southerly along the boundary of the City of Baldwin Park and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the first intersection with the boundary of the City of Industry (along the San Bernardino Freeway); thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the northeasterly boundary of Rancho Paso de Bartolo as shown on map filed in Book 1, page 73 of Record of Surveys, in the office of the Recorder of the County of Los Angeles; thence northwesterly along the boundary of said rancho and following the same in all its various courses to the center line of the San Gabriel River as shown on County Surveyor's Filed Map No. 10872, Sheet 2, on file in the office of the County Engineer of said county; thence southwesterly along said centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the southeasterly prolongation of the centerline of Siphon Road; thence northwesterly along said last-mentioned prolongation to an angle point in the boundary of the City of Whittier; thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with said last-mentioned centerline; thence northwesterly along said last-mentioned centerline and continuing northwesterly along the centerline of San Gabriel Boulevard to the centerline of Lincoln Avenue; thence southwesterly along said last-mentioned centerline to the northeasterly boundary of the City of Montebello; thence northwesterly along said last-mentioned boundary to its first intersection with said boundary of the City of Rosemead; thence northwesterly along said last-mentioned boundary (along Arroyo Drive) and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
C.
Parcel 3. Beginning at the intersection of the northeasterly boundary of the city of Industry (along Nelson Avenue) and the northwesterly boundary of the city of La Puente; thence northwesterly along said boundary of the city of Industry and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Baldwin Park; thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the centerline of Francisquito Avenue; thence southeasterly along said centerline to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Baldwin Park; thence southwesterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to said centerline of Francisquito Avenue; thence southeasterly along said centerline to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of West Covina; thence southeasterly along the boundary of said city of West Covina and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of La Puente; thence southeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to said centerline of Francisquito Avenue; thence southeasterly along said centerline to the centerline of Hacienda Boulevard; thence southwesterly and southerly along the centerline of Hacienda Boulevard to said boundary of the city of La Puente; thence easterly along said boundary of the city of La Puente and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
D.
Parcel 4. Beginning at the intersection of the southerly boundary of the city of Industry (along the southwesterly line of the Los Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad Company right-of-way, Riverside Branch), with the centerline of Hacienda Boulevard; thence southerly along said centerline and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the southwesterly boundary of Rancho La Puente, as shown on map recorded in Book 1, pages 43 and 44 of Patents, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence northwesterly along said southwesterly boundary to the range line between Ranges 10 and 11 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along said range line to the southeast corner of Section 24, Township 2 South, Range 11 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly along section line to the southwest corner of said section; thence northerly along section lines to the southwesterly boundary of the Rancho La Puente, as shown on map of Township 2 South, Range 11 West, S.B.M.; thence northwesterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned rancho and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with said boundary of the city of Industry (along the southeasterly line of said Los Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad right-of-way); thence northeasterly along said boundary of the city of Industry and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
E.
Parcel 5. Beginning at a point in the centerline of Jeffries Avenue, as said centerline is shown on map of Tract No. 15798 filed in Book 347, pages 16 and 17 of Maps in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles, distant northwesterly thereon 176 feet from the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Arcadia Acreage Tract as shown on map filed in Book 10, page 18 of said Maps; thence southeasterly along said centerline to the boundary of the city of Monrovia; thence southerly along the boundary of the city of Monrovia and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
F.
Parcel 6. Beginning at an angle point in the boundary of the city of Industry, said angle point being a point in the northeasterly line of Rivergrade Road (also known as Perez Place), said angle point also being an angle point in the boundary of the city of Baldwin Park; thence southeasterly along the boundary of the city of Industry and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Baldwin Park; thence westerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 12135 § 1 (part), 1980: Ord. 11229 § 1, 1975; Ord. 11022 § 1 (part), 1974: Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7824 § 2, 1960; Ord. 7627 § 1 (part), 1959: Ord. 7133 § 2, 1957: Ord. 6887 § 1 (part), 1956: Ord. 5791 § 11, 1951.)
1.20.220 - Santa Anita Judicial District.
The Santa Anita Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
A.
Parcel 1. Beginning at the northwest corner of Section 5, Township 3 North, Range 11 West, S.B.M.; thence easterly along section lines to the northeast corner of Section 3, said township and range; thence southerly along section lines to the northwest corner of Section 23, said township and range; thence easterly along section lines to the range line between Ranges 9 and 10 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along range line to the township line between Townships 2 and 3 North S.B.M.; thence westerly along township line to the range line between Ranges 10 and 11 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along range line to the township line between Townships 1 and 2 North, S.B.M.; thence easterly along township line to the north quarter corner of Section 3, Township 1 North, Range 10 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along quarter section lines to the boundary of the city of Azusa; thence westerly along the boundary of the city of Azusa and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Irwindale; thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Irwindale and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the southwesterly line of State Street; thence southeasterly along the boundary of the city of Arcadia and following the same in all its various courses and curves to an angle point in the boundary of said city of Arcadia at or near the southeasterly corner of Foothill Boulevard and Michillinda Avenue; thence northerly in a direct line to an angle point in the boundary of said city of Arcadia at or near the northeasterly corner of Foothill Boulevard and Michillinda Avenue; thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Arcadia to the boundary of the city of Sierra Madre; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Sierra Madre and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the southwest corner of Section 8, Township 1 North, Range 11 West, S.B.M.; thence northerly along section lines to the point of beginning.
1.
Excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries: Beginning at the intersection of the southeasterly boundary of the city of Arcadia with the southwesterly boundary of the Azusa Rancho as shown on map recorded in Book 2, pages 560 and 561 of Patents in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence southeasterly along the southwesterly boundary of said rancho to the boundary of the city of Monrovia; thence southerly along the boundary of the city of Monrovia and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the boundary of the city of Arcadia; thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Arcadia and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
2.
Also excepting therefrom that portion thereof within the following described boundaries: Beginning at a point in the centerline of Jeffries Avenue, as said centerline is shown on map of Tract No. 15798 recorded in Book 347, pages 16 and 17 of Maps in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles, distant northwesterly thereon 176 feet from the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Arcadia Acreage Tract as shown on map recorded in Book 10, page 18 of said Maps; thence southeasterly along said centerline to the boundary of the city of Monrovia; thence southerly along the boundary of the city of Monrovia and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
B.
Parcel 2. Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of the San Gabriel River with the south line of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 22, Township 1 North, Range 10 West, S.B.M.; thence westerly, southerly and easterly along the boundary of the city of Azusa to said centerline of the San Gabriel River; thence northeasterly along said centerline to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7238 § 1, 1957: Ord. 6248 § 1 (part), 1953: Ord. 5791 § 22, 1951.)
1.20.230 - Santa Monica Judicial District.
The Santa Monica Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
A.
Parcel 1. Beginning at the most northerly corner of the city of Santa Monica; thence southeasterly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
B.
Parcel 2. Beginning at the most westerly corner of Lot 60, Tract No. 9755 as shown on map recorded in Book 140, page 40, of Maps, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles, said corner being an angle point in the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence southeasterly along the boundary of said city and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 6782 § 1 (part), 1955: Ord. 5791 § 23, 1951.)
1.20.240 - South Bay Judicial District.
The South Bay Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the most westerly corner of the city of Manhattan Beach (in the Pacific Ocean); thence easterly along the boundary of the city of El Segundo and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Hawthorne; thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Rosecrans Avenue (east of Yukon Avenue); thence easterly along said centerline of Rosecrans Avenue to the boundary of the city of Gardena; thence northerly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence southerly along the boundary of said last-mentioned city and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the southwesterly boundary of the county of Los Angeles (in the Pacific Ocean); thence northwesterly along the boundary of said county and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7747 § 1 (part), 1960: Ord. 6782 § 1 (part), 1955: Ord. 5791 § 25, 1951.)
1.20.250 - Southeast Judicial District.
The Southeast Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the most westerly northeasterly corner of the city of Vernon, said corner being a point in the southerly boundary of the city of Los Angeles; thence easterly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Commerce; thence southerly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of Bell Gardens; thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of the city of South Gate; thence easterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the southeasterly corner of Imperial Bridge Territory exclusion from the city of South Gate; thence westerly along the southerly line of said exclusion to the boundary of the city of Lynwood; thence northerly along said last-mentioned boundary to the boundary of the city of South Gate (in Imperial Highway); thence westerly along the boundary of the city of South Gate and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the northwesterly corner of that certain parcel of land described in deed recorded in Book 19191, page 373 of Official Records, in the office of the recorder of the county of Los Angeles; thence westerly along the westerly prolongation of the northerly line of said certain parcel of land to the centerline of Alameda Street; thence northerly along said centerline to the southerly boundary of the city of Huntington Park (along Florence Avenue); thence westerly, northerly, westerly and northerly along said last-mentioned boundary to the boundary of the city of Los Angeles (along Slauson Avenue); thence easterly and northerly along the boundary of the city of Los Angeles to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 84-0289 § 2, 1984: Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7938 § 1 (part), 1961: Ord. 7824 § 3 (part), 1960: Ord. 7335 § 1 (part), 1958: Ord. 7238 § 1 (part), 1957: Ord. 5791 § 27, 1951.)
1.20.260 - Whittier Judicial District.
The Whittier Judicial District hereby established shall consist of all that part of the county of Los Angeles lying within the following described boundaries:
Beginning at the intersection of the northeasterly boundary of the city of Montebello with the centerline of Lincoln Avenue; thence northeasterly along the centerline of Lincoln Avenue to the centerline of San Gabriel Boulevard; thence southeasterly along the centerline of San Gabriel Boulevard and southeasterly along the centerline of Siphon Road and the southeasterly prolongation thereof to the centerline of the San Gabriel River, as shown on County Surveyor's Filed Map No. 10872, Sheet 2 on file in the office of the county engineer of the county of Los Angeles; thence northeasterly along the centerline of said river and following the same in all its various courses and curves to its first intersection with the boundary of Rancho Paso de Bartolo as shown on map recorded in Book 1, page 73 of Record of Surveys, in the office of the recorder of said county; thence northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to the boundary of the city of Industry; thence southwesterly along said last-mentioned boundary and following the same in all its various courses to its first intersection with the boundary of Rancho La Puente as shown on map of Township 2 South, Range 11 West, S.B.M.; thence southeasterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned rancho and following the same in all its various courses to the west line of Fractional Section 13, Township 2 South, Range 11 West, S.B.M.; thence southerly along section lines to the southwest corner of Section 24, said township and range; thence easterly along section line to the southeast corner of said Section 24; thence northerly along range line between Ranges 10 and 11 West, S.B.M. to the southwesterly boundary of said Rancho La Puente; thence southeasterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned rancho and following the same in all its various courses to the northeasterly corner of the Rancho La Habra, as shown on map recorded in Book 1, pages 275 and 276 of Patents in the office of said recorder; thence southwesterly along the boundary of said last-mentioned rancho to the southerly boundary of the county of Los Angeles; thence westerly along the boundary of said county of Los Angeles and following the same in all its various courses to the centerline of Imperial Highway; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the boundary of the city of La Mirada; thence northerly along said boundary of the city of La Mirada and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the centerline of Imperial Highway; thence westerly along said last-mentioned centerline to the boundary of the city of Santa Fe Springs; thence southerly along said boundary of the city of Santa Fe Springs and following the same in all its various courses to the boundary of the city of Norwalk; thence northerly along the boundary of the city of Norwalk and following the same in all its various courses and curves to the most westerly corner of Tract No. 16167 as shown on map recorded in Book 542, pages 17 to 21 inclusive, of Maps in the office of the recorder of said county (along the northeasterly line of the Santa Ana Freeway); thence northwesterly along the boundary of the city of Santa Fe Springs and following the same in all its various course; and curves to the boundary of the city of Pico Rivera; thence northeasterly along the boundary of the city of Pico Rivera and following the same in all its various courses to the most southerly corner of the city of Montebello; thence northeasterly along the boundary of said city of Montebello and following the same in all its various courses to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 9733 § 1 (part), 1969: Ord. 7938 § 1 (part), 1961: Ord. 7824 § 3 (part), 1960: Ord. 7335 § 1 (part), 1958: Ord. 7238 § 1 (part), 1957: Ord. 5791 § 27, 1951.)
Part 2 - LOCATIONS FOR COURT SESSIONS

1.20.270 - Alhambra Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Alhambra Judicial District shall be held in the city of Alhambra.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 1, 1951.)
1.20.280 - Antelope Judicial District.
Sessions of the justice court of the Antelope Judicial District shall be held in the city of Lancaster.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 2, 1951.)
1.20.290 - Beverly Hills Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Beverly Hills Judicial District shall be held in the city of Beverly Hills.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 3, 1951.)
1.20.300 - Burbank Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Burbank Judicial District shall be held in the city of Burbank.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 4, 1951.)
1.20.310 - Catalina Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Catalina Judicial District shall be held in the city of Avalon.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 5, 1951.)
1.20.320 - Citrus Judicial District.
Sessions of the justice court of the Citrus Judicial District shall be held in the city of West Covina.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 6171 § 1, 1953: Ord. 5861 § 5.5, 1951.)
1.20.330 - Compton Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Compton Judicial District shall be held in the city of Compton.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 6, 1951.)
1.20.340 - Culver Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Culver Judicial District shall be held in the city of Culver City.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 7, 1951.)
1.20.350 - Downey Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Downey Judicial District shall be held in the city of Downey.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 8, 1951.)
1.20.360 - East Los Angeles Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the East Los Angeles Judicial District shall be held in the unincorporated portion of the county known as East Los Angeles.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 9, 1951.)
1.20.370 - Glendale Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Glendale Judicial District shall be held in the city of Glendale.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 10, 1951.)
1.20.380 - Inglewood Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Inglewood Judicial District shall be held in the city of Inglewood.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 11, 1951.)
1.20.390 - Long Beach Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Long Beach Judicial District shall be held in the city of Long Beach.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 12, 1951.)
1.20.400 - Los Cerritos Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Los Cerritos Judicial District shall be held in the city of Bellflower.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 13, 1951.)
1.20.410 - Malibu Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Malibu Judicial District shall be held in the unincorporated portions of the county known as the town of Malibu and the town of Calabasas.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 14, 1951.)
1.20.420 - Newhall Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Newhall Judicial District shall be held in unincorporated portions of the county known as the town of Valencia.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 16, 1951.)
1.20.430 - Pasadena Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Pasadena Judicial District shall be held in the city of Pasadena.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 17, 1951.)
1.20.440 - Pomona Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Pomona Judicial District shall be held in the city of Pomona.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 18, 1951.)
1.20.450 - Rio Hondo Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Rio Hondo Judicial District shall be held in the city of El Monte.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 8952 § 1, 1965: Ord. 6868 § 1, 1956: Ord. 5861 § 18.5, 1951.)
1.20.460 - Santa Anita Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Santa Anita Judicial District shall be held in the city of Monrovia.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982: Ord. 5861 § 19, 1951.)
1.20.470 - South Bay Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the South Bay Judicial District shall be held in the city of Torrance and in the city of Redondo Beach.
(Ord. 89-0105 § 1, 1989: Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982.)
1.20.480 - Santa Monica Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Santa Monica Judicial District shall be held in the city of Santa Monica.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982.)
1.20.490 - Southeast Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Southeast Judicial District shall be held in the city of Huntington Park and in the city of South Gate.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982.)
1.20.500 - Whittier Judicial District.
Sessions of the municipal court of the Whittier Judicial District shall be held in the city of Whittier.
(Ord. 82-0230 § 1 (part), 1982.)
