Chapter 2.73 - LOS ANGELES COUNTY HEALTH AGENCY

2.73.010 - Creation of Agency and Director.
The Los Angeles County Health Agency, referred to hereinafter as the Agency, is hereby created. The provisions of this chapter shall prevail over any inconsistent provisions within chapters 2.76, 2.77, and 2.87 of this code. The Director of the Agency shall be appointed by and serve under the direction of the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 2015-0040 § 1, 2015.)
2.73.020 - Agency—Purpose and Composition.
The Agency is created for the coordination of all health related functions and activities within the County. The Agency shall be comprised of the Department of Health Services, the Department of Public Health, and the Department of Mental Health, with each department maintaining its separate status as a County department.
(Ord. 2015-0040 § 1, 2015.)
2.73.030 - Director—Duties Generally.
The Agency Director shall plan, organize, and direct all activities of the Agency in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, and ordinances. The Agency Director shall have the discretion to prioritize, organize, and administer functions and activities of the Agency. The Agency Director shall ensure that all functions and activities of the departments which comprise the Agency, as set forth in section 2.73.020, as well as the services provided to the public by those departments, are integrated and form a comprehensive system of physical health, public health, and mental/behavioral health care. The Agency Director's discretion shall be exercised in accordance with all federal, state and local laws, regulations, and ordinances, as well as policies established by the Board of Supervisors.
(Ord. 2015-0040 § 1, 2015.)
2.73.040 - Continuation of Departments, Positions, and Key Departmental Functions.
A.
There are continued in the County of Los Angeles the following departments, positions, and key functions:
(1)
The Department of Health Services and Director of Health Services as set forth in chapter 2.76 of this code as that chapter currently exists or hereafter may be amended;
(2)
The Department of Public Health, the Director of Public Health and the County Health Officer as set forth in chapter 2.77 of this code as that chapter currently exists or hereafter may be amended;
(3)
The Department of Mental Health, Director of Mental Health, and Public Guardian as set forth in chapters 2.87 and 2.30 of this code as those chapters currently exist or may be amended;
B.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as abolishing the functions of these departments, the directors thereof and the County officers specified herein. The functions and responsibilities described in federal, state and local laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to these departments shall continue to be performed by the directors thereof and the County officers specified herein.
C.
The director of each department set forth in subsection A. above will be appointed by the Board of Supervisors in consultation with the Agency Director. Each director will serve under the direction of the Agency Director.
D.
The Agency Director shall not impede the County Health Officer from carrying out the duties, services, or functions required by state law or other provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2015-0040 § 1, 2015.)
