Chapter 6.02 - INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

6.02.010 - Title and purpose of provisions.
Ordinance 6222, codified in this Title 6, shall be known as the "salary ordinance of the county of Los Angeles." It establishes the number of positions the board of supervisors of the County of Los Angeles has authorized for employment. In addition, it establishes the compensation of persons appointed to non-represented classifications and unclassified positions in the County of Los Angeles.
(Ord. 2014-0005 § 4, 2014; Ord. 6222 Ch. 1 Art. 1 § 1, 1953.)
6.02.020 - Incorporation and applicability of Charter provisions, Civil Service Rules, and other board of supervisors rules.
A.
The provisions of the Los Angeles County Charter, the Civil Service Rules, and other rules of the board of supervisors, as amended are incorporated and made a part of this Title 6.
B.
Persons holding positions established by this Title 6 shall be elected or appointed, hold their respective positions, and be promoted, transferred, laid off, reduced or discharged according to these rules and provisions.
(Ord. 6222 Ch. 1 Art. 1 § 3, 1953.)
6.02.030 - Provisions continued—Administrative clarification and inadvertent omissions.
A.
The provisions of Titles 5 or 6, insofar as they are substantially the same as the existing ordinance provisions relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations and not as new enactments.
B.
In the event the chief administrative officer finds that any provision of Titles 5 or 6 needs clarification or correction, the chief administrative officer may, with the advice of county counsel, issue administrative instructions that interpret ambiguous or complex provisions, correct any defects, supply any omissions and reconcile any inconsistencies of said provisions as enacted.
C.
It is the intent of the board of supervisors in adopting amendments to Title 6 that the number of positions and salaries thereof shall be the same as referred to in the minutes of the board of supervisors directing the preparation of ordinances amending said ordinance. If the chief administrative officer finds that any position has been omitted by inadvertence in any amendments made to this title, or that any amendment to this title inadvertently provides a different compensation than that intended by the board of supervisors as referred to in the said minutes, he shall with all possible dispatch present an ordinance to the board of supervisors correcting such error. The county counsel is hereby directed to prepare such an ordinance.
D.
In the event a position was provided in this title immediately prior to this amendment, and this amendment does not expressly provide therefor, then such position is not terminated on the effective date of this amendment but shall continue for 60 days thereafter, whereupon the same shall terminate without further action. Any position existing by virtue of the provisions of this paragraph shall not be filled without consent having first been obtained from the chief administrative officer.
E.
Effective beginning on and after April 1, 2010, or such later date in 2010 when the County implements the human resources management system reflecting this provision, whenever the terms "month" or "monthly" are used in Titles 5 or 6 in connection with salary, pay, allowance, earnings, contributions, fees, deductions or earnings reductions, these terms are deemed to mean a monthly value that can be apportioned over two semi-monthly pay periods each month potentially resulting in penny rounding differences.
(Ord. 2010-0014, § 37, 2010; Ord. 2004-0001 § 33, 2004; Ord. 6222 Ch. 1 Art. 1 § 5, 1953.)
6.02.040 - Assuming functions of other public jurisdictions.
When the county assumes the performance of functions of another public jurisdiction pursuant to the provisions of Section 56 3/4 of the Los Angeles County Charter or other applicable law, it may provide by agreement for the blanketing into county civil service of any or all officers or employees of such jurisdiction as therein provided, including the terms and conditions of entry, their status, and other rights and benefits. The provisions of such agreement, heretofore or hereafter entered into, are incorporated herein as a part of this Title 6, and shall control, to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this title, any other county ordinance, or the Civil Service Rules.
(Ord. 6222 Ch. 1 Art. 1 § 6, 1953.)
6.02.050 - Consideration of employment by other public entities.
A.
If, prior to his employment by the county, a person has been employed by one or more other public entities, such employment by such public entities shall be deemed to be employment by the county for the purpose of calculating the rights granted to such person by this Title 6, including, but not limited to, amount of compensation, vacation, sick leave, or overtime.
B.
This section shall not give any employee any greater rights by reason of his employment by any other public entity than those to which he would have been entitled if such employment had been by the county.
(Ord. 6222 Ch. 1 Art. 2 § 31, 1953.)
6.02.060 - Transfer and promotion of superior court personnel and county personnel in the unclassified civil service of the county to classified county employment.
A.
Any person employed by the superior court for the county of Los Angeles, upon request of the appointing power of the receiving county department and with the approval of the director of personnel, may transfer from a Superior Court position attained as the result of competitive examination to a classified position in a receiving county department, provided that there is no increase in grade. In addition to any other requirement, any person transferring to a classified county position pursuant to this section shall serve a period of probation as defined under the county's Civil Service Rules before such transfer is deemed complete.
B.
Any person employed by the superior court for the county of Los Angeles in a position attained as a result of competitive examination, or any person employed full-time in the unclassified civil service of the county as defined in Section 33 of the Charter of the county of Los Angeles with the exception of subsections 33(b), 33(f), and 33(g), may compete in promotional examinations in the county's classified service, provided such person meets the requirements otherwise applicable to employees of the county.
C.
Any person transferred or promoted pursuant to this section shall be deemed to be employed by the county under Section 6.02.050 of this title for the purpose of calculating employment rights.
D.
This provision, Section 6.02.060, as it pertains to Superior Court personnel, shall remain operative only as long as the Personnel Policies of the Superior Court of Los Angeles provide for reciprocity.
(Ord. 2014-0007 § 1, 2014; Ord. 88-0001 § 2, 1988: Ord. 87-0199 § 2, 1987.)
