Chapter 22 - COURTS

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Related law references—Courts, part I, chapter 6; law enforcement, part I, chapter 10.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 46; traffic and vehicles, ch. 70.
Sec. 22-1. - Fines for offenses against state criminal or traffic laws; additional penalty, bail or bond amount.
(a)
In every case in which the county superior court, county probate court, or county magistrate court shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state, or any county ordinance, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
State law reference— Imposition of additional penalty authorized, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93.
(b)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or county ordinance, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted.
State law reference— Imposition of additional penalty authorized, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93.
(c)
In every case in which the county superior court, county probate court, or county magistrate court shall order forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum shall be paid over as provided by this chapter. Such sums required by this resolution shall be in addition to the amounts required by other statutory surcharges to fines and costs.
(Res. of 6-25-1991)
State law reference— Imposition of additional penalty upon forfeiture of bail or bond, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93.
Sec. 22-2. - Assessment and collection of sums.
The sums provided for in this chapter shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the board of commissioners by the tenth day of the month following the month in which such sums are collected.
(Res. of 6-25-1991)
State law reference— Assessment, collection and delivery of collected funds, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-94.
Sec. 22-3. - Jail fund.
(a)
The county clerk shall establish a special and separate bank account to be known as the county jail fund, and shall deposit all of the sums paid over to the board of commissioners pursuant to this chapter in such fund.
(b)
Monies collected pursuant to this chapter and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended solely and exclusively for constructing, operating, and staffing the county jail, or for such other purposes as may be specifically authorized by law.
(Res. of 6-25-1991)
