Chapter 52 - UTILITIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 52-1—52-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER (RESERVED)

Secs. 52-19—52-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SEWER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local home rule powers under Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6) and (7) include sewage collection and disposal systems and the development, storage, treatment, purification, and distribution of water.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 52-40—52-66. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SEWER DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS

Sec. 52-67. - Findings.
The city finds that it is necessary that it establish material and construction standards for the installation of sanitary sewer lines for development projects within the city or that will otherwise connect with lines owned and/or operated by the city so that developers, engineers and general contractors operating within the city have clear and definite guidance in the construction policies and specifications required by the city so that an atmosphere that is conducive to growth is facilitated.
(Ord. No. 450, § 1, 10-10-2005; Ord. No. 2020-CO-12-810, § 17, 3-8-2021)
Sec. 52-68. - Adoption of City of Gainesville, Georgia, Standard Specifications for Sanitary Sewer.
The City of Gainesville, Georgia Standard Specifications for Water Mains and Sanitary Sewers, Nineteenth Edition, dated January 2013, or the most recently adopted version, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein as the standard specifications for all City of Oakwood wastewater collection systems which are connected with the Gainesville wastewater and sanitary sewer system and which flow into and are treated by the Gainesville wastewater facilities.
(Ord. No. 450, § 2, 10-10-2005; Ord. No. 2020-CO-12-810, § 17, 3-8-2021)
Sec. 52-69. - Adoption of City of Flowery Branch, Georgia, Standard Specifications for Sanitary Sewer.
The City of Flowery Branch, Georgia Standard Specifications for Water Mains and Sanitary Sewers, as revised July 1, 2009, or the most recently adopted version, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein as the standard specifications for all City of Oakwood wastewater collection systems which are connected with the Flowery Branch wastewater and sanitary sewer system and which flow into and are treated by the Flowery Branch wastewater facilities.
(Ord. No. 450, § 3, exh. A, 10-10-2005; Ord. No. 2020-CO-12-810, § 17, 3-8-2021)
Sec. 52-70. - Adoption of Town of Braselton, Georgia, Standard Specifications for Sanitary Sewer.
The Town of Braselton, Georgia Standard Specifications for Water Mains and Sanitary Sewers, as revised June 2018, or the most recently adopted version, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein as the standard specifications for all City of Oakwood wastewater collection systems which are connected with the Braselton wastewater and sanitary sewer system and which flow into and are treated by the Braselton wastewater facilities.
(Ord. No. 450, § 3, 10-10-2005; Ord. No. 2020-CO-12-810, § 17, 3-8-2021)
Sec. 52-71. - Adoption of City of Gainesville Rules and Regulations for Connection to and Use of the City of Gainesville Sanitary Sewer System.
The city specifically adopts all rules and regulations of the City of Gainesville as set forth in the City of Gainesville Code as of January 2013, or the most recently adopted version.
(Ord. No. 2020-CO-12-810, § 17, 3-8-2021)
Sec. 52-72. - Adoption of City of Flowery Branch Rules and Regulations for Connection to and Use of the City of Flowery Branch Sanitary Sewer System.
The city specifically adopts all rules and regulations of the City of Flowery Branch as set forth in the City of Flowery Branch Code as of July 1, 2009, or the most recently adopted version.
(Ord. No. 2020-CO-12-810, § 17, 3-8-2021)
Sec. 52-73. - Adoption of Town of Braselton Rules and Regulations for Connection to and Use of the Town of Braselton Sanitary Sewer System.
The city specifically adopts all rules and regulations of the Town of Braselton as set forth in the Town of Braselton Code as adopted as of June 2018, or the most recently adopted version.
(Ord. No. 2020-CO-12-810, § 17, 3-8-2021)
Secs. 52-74—52-96. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Subdivision I. - In General

Sec. 52-97. - Rules of state adopted by reference.
(a)
The rules and regulations of the state department of public health governing individual sewage systems are hereby adopted by the city.
(b)
A copy of the rules and regulations of the state department of public health for individual sewage disposal systems is on file with the city clerk and available for the general public.
(Ord. No. 27, §§ 1, 2, 8-9-1976)
Secs. 52-98—52-124. - Reserved.
Subdivision II. - Use of Public Sewers

Sec. 52-125. - Discharge to natural outlet prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this division.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(2), 10-8-1984)
State Law reference— Dumping wastes into public storm or sanitary sewer pipeline prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2.
Sec. 52-126. - Construction of septic tank, etc., prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(3), 10-8-1984)
Sec. 52-127. - Connection required.
The owners of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city, and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required at the owners' expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer where available and elevation permits in accordance with the provisions of this division within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 200 feet of the property line except where approved and adequate facilities now exist and are operating properly.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(4), 10-8-1984)
Secs. 52-128—52-156. - Reserved.
Subdivision III. - Private Wastewater Disposal

Sec. 52-157. - When public sewer unavailable.
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of section 52-127, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this subdivision.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(9), 10-8-1984)
Sec. 52-158. - Permit required.
Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written preliminary permit for construction signed by the building inspector. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement with any plans, specifications, and other information as is deemed necessary by the building inspector or county health department. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid in the amount set forth in the Oakwood Schedule of Fees at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(10), 10-8-1984)
Sec. 52-159. - Installation to be approved.
The preliminary permit for the operation of a private wastewater disposal system shall not become final and effective until the installation is completed and approved by the building inspector. The building inspector shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the building inspector when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(11), 10-8-1984)
Sec. 52-160. - Compliance with all regulations.
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all requirements of state and federal water pollution control agencies of jurisdiction and with the local board of health. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the front footage of the lot is less than 75 feet and the area of the lot is less than 12,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet or to any well.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(12), 10-8-1984)
Sec. 52-161. - Connected to public sewer when available.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in section 52-127, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 90 days after notification by the city building inspector or by the health department that the operation of the private facility is no longer acceptable, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(13), 10-8-1984; Amd. No. 120, § 2, 10-23-1986)
Sec. 52-162. - Owner to operate and maintain.
The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(14), 10-8-1984)
Sec. 52-163. - No conflict with board of health requirements.
No statement contained in this subdivision shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the board of health.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(15), 10-8-1984)
Sec. 52-164. - Private wastewater disposal.
No person shall discharge private wastewater other than through a direct connection with the public sewer system. Discharge of wastewater removed from private wastewater treatment systems into the city's sewer is expressly prohibited.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(16), 10-8-1984)
Secs. 52-165—52-181. - Reserved.
Subdivision IV. - Building Sewers and Connections

Sec. 52-182. - Storm drains not connected to sanitary sewer.
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the city for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(24), 10-8-1984)
Secs. 52-183—52-225. - Reserved.
Subdivision V. - Public Sewers; Incompatible Uses (Reserved)

Secs. 52-226—52-267. - Reserved.
Subdivision VI. - Protection from Damage

Sec. 52-268. - Tampering, etc., with sewage works prohibited.
No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall on conviction thereof be punished as prescribed by state law.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(47), 10-8-1984)
Sec. 52-269. - Reimbursement to city for damages.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this division shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, damage, fine, penalty, or fee occasioned the city by reason of such violation or violations, including, but not limited to, any fee, penalty, or fine assessed against the city by any state or federal agency as a result of such violation.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(52), 10-8-1984)
Secs. 52-270—52-299. - Reserved.
Subdivision VII. - Powers and Authority of Inspectors (Reserved)

Secs. 52-300—52-320. - Reserved.
Subdivision VIII. - Penalties (Reserved)

Secs. 52-321—52-351. - Reserved.
Subdivision IX. - Service Charges

Sec. 52-352. - Payment.
All users of the public sewage system shall pay such service charges, surcharges, connection fees, or other charges for the use of same as are now or hereinafter provided by ordinances of the city.
(Ord. No. 120, § 1(54), 10-8-1984)
Secs. 52-353—52-377. - Reserved.
Subdivision X. - Sewer Rate Schedule

Sec. 52-378. - User charges.
All fees shall be in an amount as set forth in the Oakwood Schedule of Fees maintained by the city clerk.
Sec. 52-379. - Sewer system connection fee.
All fees shall be in an amount as set forth in the Oakwood Schedule of Fees maintained by the city clerk.
Secs. 52-380—52-419. - Reserved.
Subdivision XI. - Industrial Discharge Permit System (Reserved)

Secs. 52-420—52-441. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - DISCHARGE REGULATIONS

Sec. 52-442. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accidental discharge means a discharge prohibited by this division that occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System means any facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, highways, city streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catch basins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, ditches, swales, natural and manmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures and which is:
(1)
Owned or maintained by the city;
(2)
Not a combined sewer; and
(3)
Not part of a publicly owned treatment works.
Clean Water Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC 1251 et seq.) and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Construction activity means activities subject to the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES general construction permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
Illegal connection means either of the following:
(1)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain system regardless of whether such pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance has been previously allowed, permitted or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
(2)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance connected to the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System that has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Illicit discharge means any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System except as exempted in section 52-444(b).
Industrial Activity means activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14).
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) storm water discharge permit means a permit issued by the Georgia EPD under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
Non-stormwater discharge means any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
Pollutant means anything that causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; liquid and solid wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Pollution means the contamination or other alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties by the addition of any constituent and includes, but is not limited to, a change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity or odor of such waters or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety, welfare or environment or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational or other legitimate beneficial uses or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Premises means any building, lot, parcel or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells and other bodies of surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single person.
Stormwater runoff or stormwater means any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such precipitation.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow.
(Amd. No. 120, § 201, 7-11-2005)
Sec. 52-443. - Findings, purpose and intent.
(a)
Findings. It is hereby determined by the city council that:
(1)
Discharges to the city separate storm sewer system that are not composed entirely of stormwater runoff contribute to increased nonpoint source pollution and degradation of receiving waters.
(2)
These non-stormwater discharges occur due to spills, dumping and improper connections to the city separate storm sewer system from residential, industrial, commercial or institutional establishments.
(3)
These non-stormwater discharges not only impact waterways individually but geographically dispersed, small volume non-stormwater discharges can have cumulative impacts on receiving waters.
(4)
The impacts of these discharges adversely affect public health and safety, drinking water supplies, recreation, fish and other aquatic life, property values and other uses of lands and waters.
(5)
These impacts can be minimized through the regulation of spills, dumping and discharges into the city separate storm sewer system.
(6)
Localities in the state are required to comply with a number of state and federal laws, regulations and permits which require a locality to address the impacts of stormwater runoff quality and nonpoint source pollution due to improper non-stormwater discharges to the city separate storm sewer system.
(b)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this division is to protect the public health, safety, environment and general welfare through the regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal law. This division establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this division are to:
(1)
Regulate the contribution of pollutants to the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System by any person;
(2)
Prohibit illicit discharges and illegal connections to the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System;
(3)
Prevent non-stormwater discharges generated as a result of spills, inappropriate dumping or disposal to the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System; and
(4)
Establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance, monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this division.
(Amd. No. 120, § 101, 7-11-2005)
Sec. 52-444. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Prohibitions of illicit discharges. No person shall throw, drain or otherwise discharge, cause or allow others under its control to throw, drain or otherwise discharge into the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System any pollutants or waters containing any pollutants other than stormwater.
(b)
Exemptions. The following discharges are exempt from the prohibition provision subsection (a) of this section:
(1)
Water line flushing performed by a government agency, other potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows and any other water source not containing pollutants; and
(2)
Discharges or flows from firefighting and other discharges specified in writing by the city as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
The prohibition provision of subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit or order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the state and the Federal Environmental Protection Agency provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and regulations and provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System.
(c)
Prohibition of illegal connections. The construction, connection, use, maintenance or continued existence of any illegal connection to the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System is prohibited.
(1)
This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
(2)
A person violates this division if the person connects a line conveying sewage to the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System or allows such a connection to continue.
(3)
Improper connections in violation of this division must be disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater management system or the sanitary sewer system upon approval of the city manager.
(4)
Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent and which may be connected to the storm sewer system shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written notice of violation from the city requiring that such locating be completed. Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the location of the drain or conveyance is to be completed, that the drain or conveyance be identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these investigations are to be documented and provided to the city.
(Amd. No. 120, § 301, 7-11-2005)
Sec. 52-445. - Industrial or construction activity discharges.
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the city prior to allowing discharges to the City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System.
(Amd. No. 120, § 401, 7-11-2005)
Sec. 52-446. - Access and inspection of properties and facilities.
Representatives of the city shall be permitted to enter and inspect properties and facilities at reasonable times as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this division.
(1)
If a property or facility has security measures in force that require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the owner or operator shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the city.
(2)
The owner or operator shall allow the representatives of the city ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, photography, videotaping, examination and copying of any records that are required under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater.
(3)
The city shall have the right to set up on any property or facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the representatives of the city to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of flow discharges.
(4)
The city may require the owner or operator to install monitoring equipment and perform monitoring as necessary and make the monitoring data available to the city. This sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the owner or operator at his own expense. All devices used to measure flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
(5)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the property or facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the owner or operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the owner or operator.
(6)
Unreasonable delays in allowing the representatives of the city access to a facility is a violation of this division.
(7)
If representatives of the city have been refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged and the city is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this division or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this division or any order issued hereunder or to protect the overall public health, safety, environment and welfare of the community, then the city may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Amd. No. 120, § 501, 7-11-2005)
Sec. 52-447. - Notification of accidental discharges and spills.
(a)
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible for a facility, activity or operation or responsible for emergency response for a facility, activity or operation has information of any known or suspected release of pollutants or non-stormwater discharges from that facility or operation which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, City of Oakwood Separate Storm Sewer System, state waters or waters of the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment and cleanup of such release so as to minimize the effects of the discharge.
(b)
The person responsible for the facility, activity or operation or responsible for emergency response for a facility, activity or operation shall notify the authorized enforcement agency in person or by phone, facsimile or in person no later than 24 hours of the nature, quantity and time of occurrence of the discharge. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the city within three business days of the phone or in person notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years. Said person shall also take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the discharge or spill.
(c)
In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, emergency response agencies and/or other appropriate agencies shall be immediately notified.
(d)
Failure to provide notification of a release as provided in subsection (b) of this section is a violation of this division.
(Amd. No. 120, § 601, 7-11-2005)
Sec. 52-448. - Violations, enforcement and penalties.
(a)
Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this division. Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this division may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law. In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or public safety, representatives of the city are authorized to enter upon the subject private property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. The city is authorized to seek costs of the abatement as outlined in subsection (e) of this section.
(b)
Notice. Whenever the city finds that a violation of this division has occurred, the city may order compliance by written notice of violation.
(1)
The notice of violation shall contain:
a.
The name and address of the alleged violator;
b.
The address, when available, or a description of the building, structure or land upon which the violation is occurring or has occurred;
c.
A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
d.
A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore compliance with this division and a time schedule for the completion of such remedial action;
e.
A statement of the penalty that shall or may be assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
f.
A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal within 30 days of service of notice of violation.
(2)
Such notice may require, without limitation:
a.
The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
b.
The elimination of illicit discharges and illegal connections;
c.
That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and desist;
d.
The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
e.
Payment of costs to cover administrative and abatement costs; and
f.
The implementation of pollution prevention practices.
(c)
Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the city manager to the city council. The notice of appeal must be received within 30 days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the city council shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the city council shall be final.
(d)
Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation or, in the event of an appeal, within ten days of the decision of the city council upholding the decision of the city manager, then representatives of the city may enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the representatives of the city or its designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth in this subsection.
(e)
Costs of abatement of the violation. Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the assessment or to the amount of the assessment within 15 days of such notice. If the amount due is not paid within 30 days after receipt of the notice or, if an appeal is taken, within 30 days after a decision on said appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment. Any person violating any of the provisions of this division shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation.
(f)
Civil penalties. In the event the alleged violator fails to take the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations described therein within ten days or such greater period as the city shall deem appropriate after the city has taken one or more of the actions described above, the city may impose a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 (depending on the severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after receipt of the notice of violation.
(g)
Criminal penalties. For intentional and flagrant violations of this division, the city, through its police department, may issue a citation to the alleged violator requiring such person to appear in the municipal court for the city to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00 or imprisonment for 90 days or both for each violation. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(h)
Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this division is a threat to public health, safety, welfare and environment and is declared and deemed a nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief as provided by law.
(i)
Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this division are not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law, and the city may seek cumulative remedies. Additionally, the city may recover attorney's fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this division including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Amd. No. 120, § 701, 7-11-2005)
Sec. 52-449. - Compatibility with other regulations.
This division is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law. The requirements of this division are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, and where any provision of this division imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(Amd. No. 120, § 802, 7-11-2005)
