Chapter 24 - ELECTIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.

Sec. 24-1. - Municipal superintendent; joint county municipal board of registration and elections for the county and the city so designated.
Pursuant to the Act of the General Assembly of Georgia of 1986 creating the Joint County Municipal Board of Registration and Elections for the county and the city (1986 Ga. Laws, p. 3831), the joint county municipal board of registration and elections for the county and the city is hereby appointed municipal superintendent for the city.
(Code 1975, § 10-1; Code 1985, § 11-1; Ord. No. 87-169, § 1, 8-25-1987; Ord. No. 87-187, § 1, 10-13-1987)
Sec. 24-2. - Absentee ballot clerk; chief registrar so designated.
The chief registrar shall, by virtue of office, be the absentee ballot clerk.
(Code 1975, § 10-2; Code 1985, § 11-2)
Sec. 24-3. - Primaries; manner of defraying expenses.
The city shall defray all expenses of primaries to the maximum extent authorized by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-156.
(Code 1985, § 11-4; Ord. No. 81-155, §§ 1, 6, 5-12-1981; Ord. No. 84-161, § 1, 7-24-1984)
Sec. 24-4. - Wards.
The city proper shall be divided into six wards according to the following descriptions of each of said wards as reapportioned in accordance with the census of 2010:
Ward 1: Ward 1 shall include that eastern portion of the City of Albany, more particularly described as follows:
From the point of beginning at the intersection of Clark Avenue and North Maple Street, proceed north on North Maple Street for 8,625 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Maple Street and Cromartie Beach Drive. From the intersection of North Maple Street and Cromartie Beach Drive, continue north along the center line of a driveway and then a drainage ditch for 275 feet, more or less, to a point on the northern city limit boundary of Albany, Georgia which is also the southern bank of Lake Chehaw. From this point on the northern city limit boundary of Albany, Georgia, follow the city limit line in a generally easterly direction for 27,821 feet, more or less, to a point where the city limit boundary intersects the west bank of Piney Woods Creek. From said point on the west bank of Piney Woods Creek, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limits boundary in a southerly, then westerly direction, for 8,300 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary intersects the right-of-way of McCollum Drive. From said point, proceed south along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 4,310 feet, more or less, to a point on the northern right-of-way of Cordele Road. From said point on the northern right-of-way of Cordele Road, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southeasterly direction for 500 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a northeasterly direction for 350 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southerly direction for 686 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue due west along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 1,120 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southerly direction for 2,050 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a westerly direction for 285 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southerly direction for 470 feet, more or less, to a point on the south right-of-way of Clark Avenue. From said point, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 1,910 feet, more or less, to a point on the west right-of-way of Pine Bluff Road. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southerly direction for 6,065 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in an easterly direction for 828 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southerly direction for 645 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a westerly direction for 825 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southerly direction for 340 feet, more or less, to a point on the north right-of-way of the Georgia Florida Railnet. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a westerly direction for 6,675 feet, more or less, to a point on the east right-of-way of South Mock Road. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southerly direction, parallel to South Mock Road for 2,800 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a westerly direction, parallel to Cutts Drive, for 2,918 feet, more or less, to a point on the northeast right-of-way of Georgia Florida Railnet. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a northwesterly direction for 4,625 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limits boundary intersects the right-of-way for Liberty Expressway, SE. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southerly, then southwesterly, direction for 6,512 feet, more or less, to a point on the northeast right-of-way for Moultrie Road. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a northwesterly direction, parallel to Moultrie Road, for 1,358 feet, more or less, to a point on the east right-of-way for Georgia Florida Railnet. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southerly direction for 67 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary intersects the centerline of Moultrie Road. From the point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary intersects the centerline of Moultrie Road, proceed northwest along the centerline of Moultrie Road for 6,425 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Moultrie Road with Radium Springs Road. From the intersection of Moultrie Road with Radium Springs Road, proceed in a northerly direction along Radium Springs Road for 1,589 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Crawford Drive with Radium Springs Road. From the intersection of Crawford Drive with Radium Springs Road, continue for 2,175 feet, more or less, in an easterly, then southerly direction along Crawford Drive to the intersection of Crawford Drive with Mitchell Avenue. From the intersection of Crawford Drive with Mitchell Avenue, proceed east on Mitchell Avenue for 406 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Mitchell Avenue and South Street. From the intersection of Mitchell Avenue and South Street, proceed north on South Street for 608 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Street with Dunes Avenue. From the intersection of South Street with Dunes Avenue, proceed east on Dunes Avenue for 815 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Dunes Avenue and Rood Street. From the intersection of Dunes Avenue and Rood Street, go south on Rood Street for 550 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Rood Street and Mitchell Avenue. From the intersection of Mitchell Avenue and Rood Street, proceed east on Mitchell Avenue for 410 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Frotscher Street and Mitchell Avenue. From the intersection of Frotscher Street and Mitchell Avenue, go north on Frotscher Street for 615 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Frotscher Street with Dunes Avenue. From the intersection of Frotscher Street with Dunes Avenue, proceed east on Dunes Avenue for 435 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Dunes Avenue and Van Deman Street. From the intersection of Dunes Avenue and Van Deman Street, continue south along Van Deman Street for 550 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Van Deman Street and Mitchell Avenue. From the intersection of Van Deman Street and Mitchell Avenue, proceed east on Mitchell Avenue for 610 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Mitchell Avenue with Mobile Avenue. From the intersection of Mitchell Avenue with Mobile Avenue, continue in a generally northerly direction on Mobile Avenue for 1,570 feet, more or less, the intersection of Mobile Avenue with Silica Drive. From the intersection of Mobile Avenue with Silica Drive, follow Silica Drive east, then south, then east for 2,300 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Silica Drive with the Georgia Florida Railnet. From the intersection of Silica Drive with the Georgia Florida Railnet, proceed north along the Georgia Florida Railnet for 2,478 feet, more or less to the intersection of the Georgia Florida Railnet and East Oglethorpe Boulevard. From the intersection of the Georgia Florida Railnet and East Oglethorpe Boulevard, go east on East Oglethorpe Boulevard for 356 feet, more or less, the intersection of East Oglethorpe Boulevard with a rail line of the Georgia Florida Railnet. From the intersection of East Oglethorpe Boulevard with the rail line of the Georgia Florida Railnet, proceed northwest along the rail line for 1,920 feet, more or less, to its intersection with East Broad Avenue. From the intersection of the Georgia Florida Railnet with East Broad Avenue, go east on East Broad Avenue for 22 feet, more or less, to the intersection of East Broad Avenue and Old Blaylock Lane. From the intersection of East Broad Avenue and Old Blaylock Lane, proceed north, then northeast around a curb, for 1040 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Old Blaylock Lane with Blaylock Street. From the intersection of Old Blaylock Lane with Blaylock Street, proceed in a generally northerly direction along Blaylock Street for 275 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Blaylock Street and Clark Avenue. From the intersection of Blaylock Street and Clark Avenue, proceed east on Clark Avenue for 2,850 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Clark Avenue with North Maple Street, which, is also the point of beginning.
Ward 2: Ward 2 shall include that north central portion of the City of Albany, more particularly described as follows:
From the point of beginning at the intersection of Clark Avenue and Maple Street, proceed North on North Maple Street for 8,625 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Maple Street and Cromartie Beach Drive. From the intersection of Maple Street and Cromartie Beach Drive, continue north along the center line of a driveway and then a drainage ditch for 275 feet, more or less, to a point on the northern city limit boundary of Albany, Georgia which is also the southern bank of Lake Chehaw. From this point on the southern bank of Lake Chehaw, proceed in a generally northwesterly direction, following the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, for 23,565 feet, more or less, to a point on the southwest bank of Kinchafoonee Creek where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary intersects the county boundary line separating Lee and Dougherty County. From said point on the southwest bank of Kinchafoonee Creek and the Lee/Dougherty County Boundary, proceed west for 9,555 feet, more or less along the Lee/Dougherty County boundary line to a point in the right-of-way of Ledo Road, where the Lee/Dougherty County boundary line intersects Nottingham Way. From the point where the Lee/Dougherty County boundary line intersects Nottingham Way, follow Nottingham Way south for 1,900 feet, more or less, to the point where Nottingham Way intersects the south right-of-way boundary for Liberty Expressway. From said point on the south right-of-way boundary of Liberty Expressway, proceed for 2,740 feet, more or less, a southeasterly direction, to a point where Elton Street intersects the south right-of-way boundary for Liberty Expressway. From said point where Elton Street intersects the south right-of-way boundary for Liberty Expressway, proceed south on Elton Street for 1,130 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Elton Street and Stuart Avenue. From the intersection of Elton Street and Stuart Avenue, go due east on Stuart Avenue for 6,200 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Stuart Avenue with North Slappey Boulevard. From the intersection of Stuart Avenue with North Slappey Boulevard, proceed south on North Slappey Boulevard for 9,315 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Slappey Boulevard and West Society Avenue. From the intersection of North Slappey Boulevard and West Society Avenue, continue east on West Society Avenue for 2,375 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Society Avenue and North Van Buren Street. From the intersection of West Society Avenue and North Van Buren Street, Follow North Van Buren Street in a generally southeasterly direction, around a curve to the east, for 635 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Van Buren Street and West Tift Avenue. From the intersection of North Van Buren Street and West Tift Avenue, proceed east on West Tift Avenue for 5,090 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Tift Avenue with North Washington Street. From the intersection of West Tift Avenue with North Washington Street, go south on North Washington Street for 1,067 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Washington Street and Norfolk Southern Railroad. From the intersection of North Washington Street and Norfolk Southern Railroad, follow the Norfolk Southern Railroad track in a northeasterly direction for 1,175 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Norfolk Southern Railroad with Georgia Florida Railnet. From the intersection of Norfolk Southern Railroad with Georgia Florida Railnet, proceed in a generally southeasterly direction along the track of Georgia Florida Railnet for 2,241 feet, more or less, to a point that is at the intersection of Georgia Florida Railnet with the center of the Flint River. From said point, proceed in a southerly direction along the centerline of the Flint River for 1,120 feet, more or less, to the point where the centerline of the Flint River intersects with the centerline for East Oglethorpe Drive. From the point where the centerline of the Flint River intersects with the centerline for East Oglethorpe Boulevard, follow East Oglethorpe Boulevard in a generally easterly direction for 8,352 feet, more or less, to a point where East Oglethorpe Boulevard intersects the eastern most line of the Georgia Florida Railnet. From the point where East Oglethorpe Boulevard intersects the eastern most line of the Georgia Florida Railnet, proceed in a northwesterly direction along Georgia Florida Railnet for 1,919 feet, more or less, to the point where the centerline of the Georgia Florida Railnet intersects the centerline of East Broad Avenue. From the point where the centerline of the Georgia Florida Railnet intersects the centerline of East Broad Avenue, continue east on East Broad Avenue for 22 feet, more or less, to the intersection of East Broad Avenue and Old Blaylock Lane. From the intersection of East Broad Avenue and Old Blaylock Lane, follow Old Blaylock Lane north then around a curve to the northeast, for 1,045 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Old Blalock Lane and Blaylock Street. From the intersection of Old Blalock Lane and Blaylock Street, continue in a generally northerly direction on Blaylock Street for 270 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Blaylock Street with Clark Avenue. From the intersection of Blaylock Street with Clark Avenue, proceed east along Clark Avenue for 2,851 feet, more or less, to its intersection with North Maple Street, which, is also the point of beginning.
Ward 3: Ward 3 shall include that central portion of the City of Albany, more particularly described as follows:
From the point of beginning at the intersection of Stuart Avenue with North Slappey Boulevard, proceed south on North Slappey Boulevard for 9,315 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Slappey Boulevard and West Society Avenue. From the intersection of North Slappey Boulevard and West Society Avenue, continue east on West Society Avenue for 2,375 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Society Avenue and North Van Buren Street. From the intersection of West Society Avenue and North Van Buren Street, go in a generally southeasterly direction, around a curve to the east, for 635 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Van Buren Street and West Tift Avenue. From the intersection of North Van Buren Street and West Tift Avenue, proceed east on West Tift Avenue for 5,090 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Tift Avenue with North Washington Street. From the intersection of West Tift Avenue with North Washington Street, go south on North Washington Street for 1,067 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Washington Street and Norfolk Southern Railroad. From the intersection of North Washington Street and Norfolk Southern Railroad, follow the Norfolk Southern Railroad track in a northeasterly direction for 1,175 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Norfolk Southern Railroad with Georgia Florida Railnet. From the intersection of Norfolk Southern Railroad with Georgia Florida Railnet, proceed in a generally southeasterly direction along the track of Georgia Florida Railnet for 2,241 feet, more or less, to a point that is at the intersection of Georgia Florida Railnet with the center of the Flint River. From said point, proceed in a southerly direction along the centerline of the Flint River for 672 feet, more or less, to the point where the centerline of the Flint River intersects with the centerline of East Broad Avenue. From the point where the centerline of the Flint River intersects with the centerline of East Broad Avenue, go west on East Broad Avenue for 571 feet, more or less, to the intersection of East Broad Avenue and South Front Street. From the intersection of East Broad Avenue and South Front Street, proceed in a southerly direction, then around a sharp curve to the west, for 2,609 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Front Street and Mercer Avenue, at which point, South Front Street makes a 90 degree turn to the south. From the intersection of South Front Street and Mercer Avenue, continue south, then west, along South Front Street for 4,583 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Front Street with South Jackson Street. From the intersection of South Front Street with South Jackson Street, proceed south on South Jackson Street for 702 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Jackson Street and Alice Avenue. From the intersection of South Jackson Street and Alice Avenue, go west on Alice Avenue for 2,560 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Alice Avenue with South Madison Street. From the intersection of Alice Avenue with South Madison Street, go north on South Madison Street for 390 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Madison Street and Jefferies Avenue. From the intersection of South Madison Street and Jefferies Avenue, continue west on Jefferies Avenue for 1,003 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Jefferies Avenue with Newton Road. From the intersection of Jefferies Avenue with Newton Road, proceed in a southwesterly direction for 300 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Newton Road and Lippitt Drive. From the intersection of Newton Road and Lippitt Drive, go west along Lippitt Drive for 3,360 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Lippitt Drive with South Slappey Boulevard. From the intersection of Lippitt Drive with South Slappey Boulevard, proceed north on South Slappey Boulevard for 3,555 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Slappey Boulevard and West Lincoln Avenue. From the intersection of South Slappey Boulevard and West Lincoln Avenue, go west along West Lincoln Avenue for 2,365 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Lincoln Avenue and Walnut Street. From the intersection of West Lincoln Avenue and Walnut Street, go south on Walnut Street for 280 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Walnut Street and West Gordon Avenue. From the intersection of Walnut Street and West Gordon Avenue, proceed west on West Gordon Avenue for 1,162 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Gordon Avenue and Elm Street. From the intersection of West Gordon Avenue and Elm Street, proceed north on Elm Street for 355 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Elm Street and West Lincoln Avenue. From the intersection of Elm Street and West Lincoln Avenue, go west on West Lincoln Avenue for 850 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Lincoln Avenue with South Magnolia Street. From the intersection of West Lincoln Avenue and South Magnolia Street, follow South Magnolia Street north for 2,331 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Magnolia Street with Norfolk Southern Railroad. From the intersection of South Magnolia Street with Norfolk Southern Railroad, continue along the Norfolk Southern Railroad track in a northeasterly direction for 4,645 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Norfolk Southern Railroad and North Slappey Boulevard. From the intersection of Norfolk Southern Railroad and North Slappey Boulevard, go north on North Slappey Boulevard for 765 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Slappey Boulevard and Dawson Road. From the intersection of North Slapppey Boulevard and Dawson Road, continue along Dawson Road in a northwesterly direction for 13,160 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Dawson Road with Whispering Pines Road. From the intersection of Dawson Road with Whispering Pines Road, proceed in an easterly direction along Whispering Pines Road for 3,675 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Whispering Pines Road with Forest Glen Drive. From the intersection of Whispering Pines Road with Forest Glen Drive, go north on Forest Glen Drive for 1032 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Forest Glen Drive and Sharon Avenue. From the intersection of Forest Glen Drive and Sharon Avenue, go west on Sharon Avenue for 224 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Sharon Avenue and Elton Street. From the intersection of Sharon Avenue and Elton Street, go north along Elton Street for 1,239 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Elton Street and Stuart Avenue. From the intersection of Elton Street and Stuart Avenue, proceed east along Stuart Avenue for 6,207 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Stuart Avenue with North Slappey Boulevard which is also the point of beginning.
Ward 4: Ward 4 shall include that southwestern portion of the city of Albany, more particularly described as follows:
From the point of beginning at the intersection of North Slapppey Boulevard and Dawson Road, proceed along Dawson Road in a northwesterly direction for 13,160 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Dawson Road with Westgate Drive. From the intersection of Dawson Road with Westgate Drive, proceed in a southwesterly direction along Westgate Drive for 4,799 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Westgate Drive and North Westover Boulevard. From the intersection of Westgate Drive and North Westover Boulevard, go south on North Westover Boulevard for 5,013 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Westover Boulevard and Gillionville Road, at which point, continuing in a southerly direction the street name changes from North Westover Boulevard to South Westover Boulevard. From the intersection of South Westover Boulevard and Gillionville Road, continue in a generally southern direction, coincident with the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 6,212 feet, more or less, to a point in the right-of way of South Westover Boulevard, where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary turns due west. From said point, follow the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary west for 2,498 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, follow the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary north for 662 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a generally westerly direction for 6,540 feet, more or less, to a point in the right-of-way for Lockett Station Road. From said point in the right-of-way for Lockett Station Road, continue north along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, parallel to Lockett Station Road, for 4,954 feet, more or less, to a point in the right-of way for Gillionville Road. From said point in the right-of way for Gillionville Road, follow the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary west, parallel to Gillionville Road, for 4,295 feet, more or less, to a point, at which point, the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary turns due north, perpendicular to Gillionville Road. From said point, proceed north along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 2,062 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue west along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 2,351 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue south along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 1,696 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 508 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue south along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 348 feet, more or less, to a point in the right-of-way for Gillionville Road. From said point, continue west along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, parallel to Gillionville Road, for 520 feet, more or less, to a point, at which point the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary turns due south, perpendicular to Gillionville Road. From said point, continue south along the Albany, Georgia City limit boundary for 3,214 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 2,143 feet, more or less, to a point in the middle of the Cooleewahee Creek. From said point in the middle of the Cooleewahee Creek, follow the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, coincident with the centerline for Cooleewahee Creek, in a generally southwesterly direction, for 4,078 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary diverges from the centerline for Cooleewahee Creek. From said point, continue south along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 10,468 feet to a point. From said point, follow the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary east for 18,397 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue north along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 2,221 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 677 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue north along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 95 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 563 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue north along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 133 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 2,653 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary intersects Old Pretoria Road. From said point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary intersects Old Pretoria Road, proceed in a generally northeasterly direction along Old Pretoria Road for 1,495 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Old Pretoria Road and West Oakridge Drive. From the intersection of Old Pretoria Road and West Oakridge Drive, continue east on West Oakridge Drive for 2,433 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Oakridge Drive and Westtown Road. From the intersection of West Oakridge Drive and Westtown Road, proceed north on Westtown Road for 3,625 feet, more or less, to the second railroad track crossing. From the intersection of Westtown Road and the second railroad track crossing, which is a side track of Norfolk Southern Railroad, follow the railroad track in a generally northwesterly direction for 4,352 feet, more or less, to the intersection of said railroad track and West Gordon Avenue. From the intersection of said railroad track and West Gordon Avenue, proceed west on West Gordon Avenue for 628 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Gordon Avenue with South Valencia Drive. From the intersection of West Gordon Avenue with South Valencia Drive, go north on South Valencia Drive for 2,150 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Valencia Drive and the Norfolk Southern Railroad track. From the intersection of South Valencia Drive and the Norfolk Southern Railroad track, follow the railroad track in a northeasterly direction for 6,480 feet, more or less, to the intersection of the Norfolk Southern Railroad track with North Slappey Boulevard. From the intersection of the Norfolk Southern Railroad track with North Slappey Boulevard, proceed north on North Slappey Boulevard for 714 feet, more or less, to the intersection of North Slappey Boulevard and Dawson Road which is also the point of beginning.
Ward 5: Ward 5 shall include that northwestern portion of the city of Albany, more particularly described as follows:
From the point of beginning at the intersection of Dawson Road with Whispering Pines Road, proceed in an easterly direction along Whispering Pines Road for 3,675 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Whispering Pines Road with Forest Glen Drive. From the intersection of Whispering Pines Road with Forest Glen Drive, go north on Forest Glen Drive for 1032 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Forest Glen Drive and Sharon Avenue. From the intersection of Forest Glen Drive and Sharon Avenue, go west on Sharon Avenue for 224 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Sharon Avenue and Elton Street. From the intersection of Sharon Avenue and Elton Street, go north along Elton Street for 2,389 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Elton Street with a point on the south right-of way for Liberty Expressway. From the intersection of Elton Street with said point on the south right-of way for Liberty Expressway, follow the south right-of-way boundary for Liberty Expressway in a westerly direction for 2,740 feet, more or less, to the intersection of the south right-of-way boundary for Liberty Expressway with Nottingham Way. Form the intersection of the south right-of-way boundary for Liberty Expressway with Nottingham Way, proceed north on Nottingham Way for 1,934 feet, more or less, to a point where Nottingham Way intersects the northern city limit boundary for the City of Albany, Georgia. From said point where Nottingham Way intersects the northern city limit boundary for the City of Albany, Georgia, follow the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary west for 17,680 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a ninety degree turn to the south. From said point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a ninety degree turn to the south, continue south along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 10,012 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a ninety degree turn to the east. From said point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a ninety degree turn to the east, continue east for 6,274 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a ninety degree turn to the north. From said where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a ninety degree turn to the north, continue north along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 1,145 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a ninety degree turn to the east. From said point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a ninety degree turn to the east, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 1,603 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary intersects the right-of-way for Beattie Road. From said point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary intersects Beattie Road, proceed in a generally southerly direction along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, and parallel to Beattie Road, for 4,669 feet, more or less, to a point on the south right-of-way for Gillionville Road where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a ninety degree turn to the east. From said point on the south right-of-way for Gillionville Road, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, and parallel to Gillionville Road, for 5,600 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary intersects North Westover Boulevard. From said point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary intersects North Westover Boulevard, proceed north on North Westover Boulevard for 5,030 feet, more or less, the intersection of North Westover Boulevard and Westgate Drive. From the intersection of North Westover Boulevard and Westgate Drive, proceed in a generally northeasterly direction for 4,798 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Westgate Drive and Dawson Road which is also the point of beginning.
Ward 6: Ward 6 shall include that south central portion of the City of Albany, more particularly described as follows:
From a point of beginning at the intersection of East Broad Avenue and South Front Street, proceed in a southerly direction, then around a sharp curve to the west, for 2,609 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Front Street and Mercer Avenue, at which point, South Front Street makes a 90 degree turn to the south. From the intersection of South Front Street and Mercer Avenue, continue south, then west, along South Front Street for 4,583 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Front Street with South Jackson Street. From the intersection of South Front Street with South Jackson Street, proceed south on South Jackson Street for 702 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Jackson Street and Alice Avenue. From the intersection of South Jackson Street and Alice Avenue, go west on Alice Avenue for 2,560 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Alice Avenue with South Madison Street. From the intersection of Alice Avenue with South Madison Street, go north on South Madison Street for 390 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Madison Street and Jefferies Avenue. From the intersection of South Madison Street and Jefferies Avenue, continue west on Jefferies Avenue for 1,003 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Jefferies Avenue with Newton Road. From the intersection of Jefferies Avenue with Newton Road, proceed in a southwesterly direction for 300 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Newton Road and Lippitt Drive. From the intersection of Newton Road and Lippitt Drive, go west along Lippitt Drive for 3,360 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Lippitt Drive with South Slappey Boulevard. From the intersection of Lippitt Drive with South Slappey Boulevard, proceed north on South Slappey Boulevard for 3,555 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Slappey Boulevard and West Lincoln Avenue. From the intersection of South Slappey Boulevard and West Lincoln Avenue, go west along West Lincoln Avenue for 2,365 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Lincoln Avenue and Walnut Street. From the intersection of West Lincoln Avenue and Walnut Street, go south on Walnut Street for 280 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Walnut Street and West Gordon Avenue. From the intersection of Walnut Street and West Gordon Avenue, proceed west on West Gordon Avenue for 1,162 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Gordon Avenue and Elm Street. From the intersection of West Gordon Avenue and Elm Street, proceed north on Elm Street for 355 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Elm Street and West Lincoln Avenue. From the intersection of Elm Street and West Lincoln Avenue, go west on West Lincoln Avenue for 850 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Lincoln Avenue with South Magnolia Street. From the intersection of West Lincoln Avenue and South Magnolia Street, follow South Magnolia Street north for 2,331 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Magnolia Street with Norfolk Southern Railroad. From the intersection of South Magnolia Street with Norfolk Southern Railroad, continue along the Norfolk Southern Railroad track in a southwesterly direction for 1,832 feet, more or less, to the intersection of the Norfolk Southern Railroad track with South Valencia Drive. From the intersection of the Norfolk Southern Railroad track with South Valencia Drive, proceed south on South Valencia Drive for 2,133 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Valencia Drive and West Gordon Avenue. From the intersection of South Valencia Drive and West Gordon Avenue, proceed east on West Gordon Avenue for 638 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Gordon Avenue with a side track of Norfolk Southern Railroad. From the intersection of West Gordon Avenue with the side track of Norfolk Southern Railroad, follow the side track of Norfolk Southern Railroad for 4,341 feet, more or less, in a generally southeasterly direction to the intersection of the side track of Norfolk Southern Railroad with Westtown Road. From the intersection of the side track of Norfolk Southern Railroad with Westtown Road, proceed south on Westtown Road for 3,606 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Westtown Road and West Oakridge Drive. From the intersection of Westtown Road and West Oakridge Drive, proceed west on West Oakridge Drive for 2,946 feet, more or less, to the intersection of West Oakridge Drive and Old Pretoria Road. From the intersection of West Oakridge Drive and Old Pretoria Road, follow Old Pretoria Road in a generally southwesterly direction for 1,337 feet more or less, to a point where Old Pretoria Road intersects the Albany, Georgia city limit Boundary. From said point where Old Pretoria Road intersects the Albany, Georgia city limit Boundary, follow the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary due east for 57 feet, more or less, to a point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a sharp turn the southwest and runs parallel to Old Pretoria Road. From said point where the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary takes a sharp turn the southwest and runs parallel to Old Pretoria Road, continue southwest along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 2,219 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, follow the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a generally southerly direction, adjacent to Southwest Georgia Regional Airport, for 11,027 feet, more or less, to a point in the northern right-of-way for Oakhaven Drive. From said point in the northern right-of-way for Oakhaven Drive, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, and parallel to Oakhaven Drive, for 6,206 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue in a northeasterly direction along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 2,540 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue in a northwesterly direction along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 109 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, in a northeasterly direction, for 4,430 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, follow the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary in a southeasterly direction for 362 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue in a generally northeasterly direction along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 1,501 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 2,310 feet, more or less, to a point in the south right-of-way for Johnny W Williams Road. From said point in the south right-of-way for Johnny W Williams Road, continue south along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 3,184 feet, more or less, to a point in the right-of-way for Story Road. From said point in the right-of-way for Story Road, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, and parallel to Story Road, for 3,649 feet, more or less, to a point in the right-of-way for Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive. From said point in the right-of-way for Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, continue north along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, and parallel to Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, for 2,858 feet, more or less, to a point in the right-of-way for Slater King Drive. From said point in the right-of-way for Slater King Drive, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, and parallel to Slater King Drive, for 1,552 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue south along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 1,651 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 1,228 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue north along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 840 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 2,298 feet, more or less, to a point on the east bank of the Flint River. From said point on the east bank of the Flint River, continue in a generally northern direction, along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, and the east bank of the Flint River, for 482 feet, more or less, to a point on the east bank of the Flint River. From said point on the east bank of the Flint River, continue in a northeasterly direction along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 1,060 feet, more or less, to a point in the right-of-way for Radium Springs Road. From said point in the right-of-way for Radium Springs Road, continue in a southerly direction along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, and parallel to Radium Springs Road, for 1,459 feet, more or less, to a point in the right-of-way for Radium Springs Road. From said point in the right-of-way for Radium Springs Road, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 1,266 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue south along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 301 feet, more or less, to a point. From said point, continue east along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary for 3,060 feet, more or less, to a point in the east right-of-way of Georgia Florida Railnet. From said point in the east right-of-way of Georgia Florida Railnet, continue north along the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary, and parallel to the Georgia Florida Railnet track, for 5,767 feet, more or less, to the intersection of the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary with Moultrie Road. From the intersection of the Albany, Georgia city limit boundary with Moultrie Road, proceed in a northwesterly direction along Moultrie Road for 6,453 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Moultrie Road and Radium Springs Road. From the intersection of Moultrie Road with Radium Springs Road, proceed in a northerly direction along Radium Springs Road for 1,589 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Crawford Drive with Radium Springs Road. From the intersection of Crawford Drive with Radium Springs Road, continue for 2,175 feet, more or less, in an easterly, then southerly direction along Crawford Drive to the intersection of Crawford Drive with Mitchell Avenue. From the intersection of Crawford Drive with Mitchell Avenue, proceed east on Mitchell Avenue for 406 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Mitchell Avenue and South Street. From the intersection of Mitchell Avenue and South Street, proceed north on South Street for 608 feet, more or less, to the intersection of South Street with Dunes Avenue. From the intersection of South Street with Dunes Avenue, proceed east on Dunes Avenue for 815 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Dunes Avenue and Rood Street. From the intersection of Dunes Avenue and Rood Street, go south on Rood Street for 550 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Rood Street and Mitchell Avenue. From the intersection of Mitchell Avenue and Rood Street, proceed east on Mitchell Avenue for 410 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Frotscher Street and Mitchell Avenue. From the intersection of Frotscher Street and Mitchell Avenue, go north on Frotscher Street for 615 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Frotscher Street with Dunes Avenue. From the intersection of Frotscher Street with Dunes Avenue, proceed east on Dunes Avenue for 435 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Dunes Avenue and Van Deman Street. From the intersection of Dunes Avenue and Van Deman Street, continue south along Van Deman Street for 550 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Van Deman Street and Mitchell Avenue. From the intersection of Van Deman Street and Mitchell Avenue, proceed east on Mitchell Avenue for 610 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Mitchell Avenue with Mobile Avenue. From the intersection of Mitchell Avenue with Mobile Avenue, continue in a generally northerly direction on Mobile Avenue for 1,570 feet, more or less, the intersection of Mobile Avenue with Silica Drive. From the intersection of Mobile Avenue with Silica Drive, follow Silica Drive east, then south, then east for 2,300 feet, more or less, to the intersection of Silica Drive with the Georgia Florida Railnet. From the intersection of Silica Drive with the Georgia Florida Railnet, proceed north along the Georgia Florida Railnet for 2,478 feet, more or less to the intersection of the Georgia Florida Railnet and East Oglethorpe Boulevard. From the intersection of the Georgia Florida Railnet and East Oglethorpe Boulevard, proceed in a generally westerly direction along East Oglethorpe Boulevard for 7,971 feet, more or less, to the intersection of East Oglethorpe Boulevard with the center line for the Flint River. From the intersection of East Oglethorpe Boulevard with the center line for the Flint River, proceed north along the centerline for the Flint River for 553 feet, more or less, to the intersection of the centerline for the Flint River with East Broad Avenue. From the intersection of the centerline for the Flint River with East Broad Avenue, proceed west on East Broad Avenue for 559 feet more or less, to the intersection of East Broad Avenue and South Front Street which is also the point of beginning.
(Code 1985, § 11-9; Ord. No. 03-111, §§ 1, 5, 5-27-2003; Ord. No. 04-100, 1-6-2004; Ord. No. 12-112, § 1(exh. A), 9-25-2012; Ord. No. 13-111, § 1, 3-26-2013)
