Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The provisions in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances of Albany, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be cited as the "Albany City Code."
(Code 1975, § 1-1; Code 1985, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless it shall be otherwise expressly provided in any section or ordinance, or unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of city commissioners, or unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
Board of city commissioners orcity commission. The term "board of city commissioners" or "city commission" means the board of city commissioners of the City of Albany, Georgia.
Charter. The term "the Charter" means the Charter of the City of Albany, Georgia.
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Albany, Georgia.
City limits. The term "the city limits" means the corporate limits or legal boundary of the City of Albany, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means this Code as designated in section 1-1.
Commissioner. The term "commissioner" means a member of the board of commissioners.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided in O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6, when a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted; and if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the following day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty; however, when the following day is a Saturday or Sunday, the party shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either . . . or" the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows:
(1)
"And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2)
"Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
"Either . . . or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Dougherty County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, or granting some right of such person as such official it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty, or it shall grant to them such right, unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Governing authority or governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the Board of Commissioners of City of Albany, Georgia.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" means and includes persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
May. The term "may" is always permissive and never mandatory.
May not. The term "may not" states a prohibition.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A term importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A" means the latest edition of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Office, officer, department, board, commission orother agent oragency. The naming of any office, officer, department, board, commission or other agent or agency shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the City of Albany, Georgia." Any such reference shall be deemed to include any person authorized by law to perform the duties of any such office, officer, department, board, commission or other agent or agency.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" extends and shall be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as described in this section.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used, it means place or places.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available or accessible to the public.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as such person's place of habitation, and to which, whenever such person is absent, such person has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed such person's residence.
Seal. The term "seal" means the city seal, the seal of the corporation.
Shall. The term "shall" is mandatory and never permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature, subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
Written, in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1975, § 1-2; Code 1985, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Rules of construction and definitions generally, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Interpretation of Code.
Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the general restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
(Code 1975, § 1-2; Code 1985, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Liberal construction of Code.
All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the board of city commissioners may be fully carried out.
(Code 1985, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Notes and catchlines of sections not part of law.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, the descriptive headings or catchlines immediately preceding or within the text of the individual sections of this Code, except the section numbers included in the headings or catchlines immediately preceding the text of such sections, and title and chapter analyses do not constitute part of the law and shall in no manner limit or expand the construction of any section of this Code. All historical citations, title and chapter analyses, and notes set out in this Code are given for the purpose of convenient reference and do not constitute part of the law.
(Code 1975, § 1-3; Code 1985, § 1-5)
State Law reference— Historical notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-6. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same in substance as those of ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1985, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinances adopting this Code shall affect any of the following when not inconsistent with this Code:
(1)
Any ordinance which is temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in effect;
(2)
Any ordinance adopted for purposes which have been consummated;
(3)
Any ordinance assessing a fee, charge or fine, unless superseded;
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the board of city commissioners to any person, firm or corporation;
(5)
Any ordinance pertaining to the operation of the Albany James H. Gray, Sr. Civic Center;
(6)
Any administrative ordinance of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(7)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the city;
(8)
Any ordinance, resolution, policy or procedure pertaining to the regulation, retirement or pensioning of city personnel;
(9)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(10)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(11)
Any ordinance pertaining to rehabilitation grants in the community development plan;
(12)
Any ordinance making any act or failure to do any act an offense against the city, when such ordinance is authorized under the state law;
(13)
Establishing any one-way street, traffic device, signal or marking, any parking regulation, or any limitation placed upon the use of any specific street for vehicles or pedestrians;
(14)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(15)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the grades of any street in the city;
(16)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for the same;
(17)
Any ordinance fixing ad valorem taxes, or providing for the levying or collecting thereof;
(18)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(19)
Any ordinance establishing city bus fares;
(20)
Any ordinance pertaining to the zoning of airport property;
(21)
Any ordinance annexing real property to the city or otherwise altering the boundaries of the city;
(22)
Any ordinance pertaining to flood control or to the administration and enforcement of such ordinances;
(23)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a board of zoning appeals, board of architectural review, or planning commission, including joint commissions;
(24)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(25)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision.
(b)
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code. These ordinances are on file in the city clerk's office.
(Code 1985, § 1-7; Ord. No. 75-178, § 3, 7-22-1975; Res. No. 86-R220, § 1, 10-14-1986)
Sec. 1-8. - Repeal not to revive former ordinance.
When an ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall itself be repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former ordinance, clause or provision unless it be expressly so provided and the former ordinance, clause or provision is set forth at length.
(Code 1975, § 1-14; Code 1985, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Repeal of ordinance not to affect liabilities, etc.
Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or modified, either expressly or by implication, by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed or modified shall continue in force until the ordinance repealing or modifying it shall go into effect unless therein otherwise expressly provided; but no suit, prosecution, proceeding, right, fine or penalty instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal shall in anywise be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance or provisions had continued in force, unless it shall be therein otherwise expressly provided.
(Code 1975, § 1-14; Code 1985, § 1-9; Ord. No. 75-178, § 3(a), 7-22-1975)
Sec. 1-10. - Amendments to Code—Effect.
Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the board of city commissioners to make the same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that reference to "The Code of Ordinances of the City of Albany, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(Code 1975, § 1-6; Code 1985, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-11. - Same—Manner; language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the board of city commissioners.
(b)
All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number, article number, chapter or other number, as the case may be.
(c)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _______ of The Code of Ordinances of the City of Albany, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(Code 1975, §§ 1-7, 1-8, 1-10; Code 1985, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-12. - Same—New material.
(a)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in this Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of Ordinances of Albany, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, or article, chapter or other designation as the case may be, to be numbered ___, which reads as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(b)
In lieu of subsection (a) of this section hereof, when the board of city commissioners desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature embracing a subject not previously existing in this Code, which the board desires to incorporate into the Code, a provision in substantially the following language may be made part of such ordinance: "It is the intention of the board of city commissioners, and it is hereby ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made part of The Code of Ordinances of the City of Albany, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(Code 1975, § 1-9; Code 1985, § 1-12)
Sec. 1-13. - Same—Subject to general penalty.
In case of the amendment by the board of city commissioners of any section of this Code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in section 1-17 shall apply to the section as amended. In case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
(Code 1975, § 1-11; Code 1985, § 1-13)
Sec. 1-14. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board of city commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of city commissioners or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code, and shall also include all amendments to the Charter during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code;
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code;
but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1975, § 1-12; Code 1985, § 1-14)
Sec. 1-15. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City of Albany, Georgia, to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1985, § 1-15)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-16. - Severability of parts of Code.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Code, if any title, chapter, article, part, subpart, section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, item, sentence, clause, phrase, or word of this Code is declared or adjudged to be invalid or unconstitutional, such declaration or adjudication shall not affect the remaining portions of this Code, which shall remain of full force and effect as if such portion so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were nor originally a part of this Code, since the board of city commissioners declares that it would have enacted the remaining parts of this Code if it had known that such portion hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
(Code 1975, § 1-13; Code 1985, § 1-16)
Sec. 1-17. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section the term "violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the guardhouse, city prison or other place provided, or by compulsory labor on the streets or public works not to exceed 180 days or by both fine and imprisonment or labor, or the fine may be imposed with an alternative of such imprisonment or compulsory labor, for each separate violation; provided further, that for violations of the Sewer and Pretreatment Ordinance of the city the maximum amount of a fine shall be $1,000.00.
(c)
Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
(Code 1975, § 1-4; Code 1985, § 1-17; Ord. No. 83-121, § 1, 4-12-1983; Ord. No. 91-129, § 1, 4-9-1991; Ord. No. 17-111, § 1, 9-26-2017)
State Law reference— Maximum sentences and fines which may be imposed for violation of municipal ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 1-18. - Punishment of corporation violating ordinances.
Whenever any corporation violates any of the ordinances of the city, a summons shall be issued directed to the corporation and served as in other cases, on any officer of such corporation to be found in the city, and if there be no such officer then upon any agent thereof in the city. The case shall be docketed and tried as in other cases, and if the defendant corporation fails to appear at the trial, or appearing, fails to plead, the presiding officer of the court shall cause to be entered a plea of not guilty and the trial shall proceed as though the defendant had appeared and pleaded. Upon conviction, the corporation shall be fined as provided for by the ordinance or by the section of the code violated, and execution shall issue for the same as provided in Charter section 24(12); provided, however, that to such an execution, such corporation shall have the right to file its illegality as provided in cases of executions for paving assessments.
(Code 1975, § 1-5; Code 1985, § 1-18)
Sec. 1-19. - Sentence involving labor—Delivery of convict to city authorities in charge of streets, etc.; records.
All persons who may be sentenced to work on the streets or other public works shall be delivered, by the chief of police or any officer designated by the court, into the custody of such officer as may be in charge of the streets or public works of the city, who shall be required to put such person immediately to work and shall confine such person to close and hard labor on streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public works for the full term to which such person may have been sentenced. The officer in charge shall make an entry, on all sentences delivered to him or her, of the date the convict was put to work and the date of discharge and deliver same to the city clerk to be preserved.
(Code 1975, § 9-35; Code 1985, § 1-19)
Charter reference— Authority to sentence persons to compulsory labor, §§ 18, 24(1), (10); power to organize and use a chain gang, § 34(12).
Sec. 1-20. - Same—Copy of sentence to accompany prisoner, etc.
The chief of police shall make out and furnish a copy of the sentence to the officer in charge of streets or other public works, who shall retain the same. Upon the person working out the term of sentence, the officer in charge of streets or public works shall discharge such person. The officer in charge of streets or other public works shall not be compelled to receive any convict unless the written sentence accompanies the convict.
(Code 1975, § 9-36; Code 1985, § 1-20)
Sec. 1-21. - Same—Compulsory labor; confinement.
(a)
All persons convicted and sentenced in the municipal court to work on the streets or other public works shall be under the direct control and management of the officer in charge of streets or other public works who shall have power to compel such persons to do such work and in such manner as may be deemed proper or expedient. All convicts may be confined in the jail or such other place as may be provided by authority of the board of city commissioners.
(b)
The officer in charge of streets or other public works shall have full power and authority to use such means of confining such convicts as to him may seem proper and to use such means of compulsion as may be necessary in order to compel such person sentenced to work during the usual work hours of the day and to maintain order and discipline both while at work or while in the jail or place of confinement between work hours.
(Code 1975, § 9-37; Code 1985, § 1-21)
