ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-130. - Oath; form.
(a)
All public officers, elected and appointed, and employees required to take an oath shall, before entering upon the discharge of their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath before some officer authorized by law to administer oaths:
"I _______, do solemnly swear or affirm that I will properly perform the duties of the office of _______ in and for the city, to the best of my knowledge, skill and ability; that I am not the holder of any unaccounted for public money due to the State of Georgia or any political subdivision or authority thereto; that I am not the holder of any office of trust under the government of the United States, any other state, or any foreign state, which I am by the laws of the State of Georgia prohibited from holding; that I am qualified to hold the office which I am about to enter according to the Constitution and laws of Georgia, that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the State of Georgia; that I have been a resident of the ward from which elected and City of Albany for the time required by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and the Charter of the city; so help me God."
(b)
All police officers are required to take an oath before entering upon the discharge of their duties, which shall be taken and subscribed before some officer authorized by law to administer oaths. The following oath is required:
"I _______, swear or affirm that I am not incumbent in any office of trust in this State, of the United States, or of any foreign state, and should I seek such office of trust, my separation from the city shall be instanter; that I am not the holder of any unaccounted public monies due this or any other State or political subdivision or authority thereto; that I am qualified to hold the office to which I am appointed for so long as I am employed with the city; that I will support or defend the Constitution of the United States of America and the Constitution of the State of Georgia and I will faithfully perform and discharge the duties of my position, conscientiously and without malice or partiality, to the best of my ability; I further swear or affirm to obey, to adhere to, to uphold and to enforce the laws of the United States of America and the State of Georgia at all times; and that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Governor of the State of Georgia, the Chief of Police of the city Police department and the officers appointed over me, according to law; so help me God."
(c)
Each commissioner of the city board of commissioners shall before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties take and subscribe upon the minutes of the Board the oath as required by Charter section 3(f).
(d)
All code enforcement personnel are required to take an oath before entering upon the discharge of their duties, which shall be taken and subscribed before some officer authorized by law to administer oaths. The following oath is required:
"I _______, swear or affirm that I am not incumbent in any office of trust in this State, of the United States, or of any foreign state, and should I seek such office of trust, my separation from the city shall be instanter; that I am not the holder of any unaccounted public monies due this or any other State or political subdivision or authority thereto; that I am qualified to hold the office to which I am appointed for so long as I am employed with the city; that I will support or defend the Constitution of the United States of America and the Constitution of the State of Georgia and I will faithfully perform and discharge the duties of my position, conscientiously and without malice or partiality, to the best of my ability; I further swear or affirm to obey, to adhere to, to uphold and to enforce the laws of the United States of America and the State of Georgia at all times; and that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Governor of the State of Georgia, and the officers appointed over me, according to law; so help me God."
(Code 1975, § 2-71; Code 1985, § 2-66; Ord. No. 89-142, § 1, 6-27-1989; Ord. No. 98-151, § 3, 12-8-1998)
Charter reference— Oath for officers and employees, § 14.
Sec. 2-131. - Bonds generally—Required; amount; period of coverage.
(a)
All general employees of the city, with the exception of the city treasurer, shall be covered by an honesty blanket position bond in the amount of $25,000.00, unless otherwise provided by the city manager.
(b)
The general manager of the board of water, gas and light commissioners shall be covered by a faithful performance position bond in the amount of $25,000.00, unless otherwise provided by the city manager.
(c)
Such bond overages as provided in this section shall be obtained for three year periods.
(d)
All other bonds required in this Code or by law or other ordinances of the city shall be in addition to the bonds required in this section.
(Code 1975, § 2-72; Code 1985, § 2-67)
Sec. 2-132. - Same—Premiums paid by city.
The premiums on all municipal officials' bonds shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1975, § 2-73; Code 1985, § 2-68)
Sec. 2-133. - Personnel policies, rules and regulations.
All city personnel shall be governed by the policies, rules and regulations promulgated and approved by the board of city commissioners from time to time and on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1975, § 2-75; Code 1985, § 2-69)
Sec. 2-134. - Attendance of certain officers at meetings of board of city commissioners.
The officers of the city whose attendance shall be required at all regular meetings of the board of city commissioners shall be the city manager, city clerk, city attorney and any other department heads as directed by the city manager.
(Code 1975, § 2-77; Code 1985, § 2-71)
Sec. 2-135. - Books, etc., to be turned over to successors.
It shall be the duty of all officers and employees of the city, upon the expiration of their terms of office, to turn over to their successors all books and papers pertaining to their offices and any property of the city under their control.
(Code 1975, § 2-78; Code 1985, § 2-72)
Sec. 2-136. - Personal property; inventory; annual report; inspection.
Every city official or employee charged with the keeping of any personal property shall at all times keep an accurate inventory of same and make return thereof annually to the mayor and board of city commissioners on the first Monday in each year, showing the amount, disposition of and condition of such property. It shall be the duty of the mayor and board of city commissioners, from time to time, to cause inspections of such property.
(Code 1975, § 2-183; Code 1985, § 2-73)
Sec. 2-137. - Political activities.
(a)
Prohibitions. Employees of the city may not:
(1)
Use official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with or affecting the result of an election or nomination for office.
(2)
Directly or indirectly coerce, attempt to coerce, command, or advise a state or local officer or employee to pay, lend, or contribute anything of value to a party, committee, organization, agency or person for political purposes.
(b)
Permitted. Employees of the city are permitted to:
(1)
Express opinions on political subjects and candidates.
(2)
Take an active part in political management and political campaigns.
(3)
Be a candidate for and hold political party office.
(4)
Wear badges or buttons, and display stickers or posters on their cars or houses.
(5)
Attend meetings, vote on candidates and issues, and take an active part in the management of any club, organization or party.
(6)
Campaign in a primary or election by making speeches, writing on behalf of a candidate, and soliciting voters to support or oppose a candidate.
(7)
Attend political meetings or rallies, including committee meetings of political organizations, and serve on committees which organize or direct activities at a partisan campaign meeting or rally.
(8)
Sign nominating petitions for candidates in primaries or elections for public office, and originate or circulate such petitions.
(9)
Drive voters to the polls as a convenience to them.
(10)
Make financial contributions to political parties or organizations, and to election campaigns, and solicit and collect voluntary political contributions.
(11)
Serve at the polls as election officials or clerks or as a checker, watcher or challenger for a political party candidate in a primary or election.
(c)
Political activity prohibited while on duty. No city employee shall engage in any political activity defined or permitted hereunder or under any other city ordinance or policy while on duty, or while in uniform, or while wearing or displaying any badge, insignia, or other indicia identifying such employee as an employee of the city.
(d)
Leave of absence for political office. An employee seeking elective public office within the city or the county shall, upon qualifying, submit a request in writing to the accountable manager for a leave of absence without pay from such employee's qualifying date through the duration of the campaign and announcement of the election results, not to exceed one year. If elected to office, the employee shall immediately, upon certification of election results, be separated from employment. City employees may seek nomination or election to public office outside the county and the city, but, if elected, the duties of such office shall not be permitted to interfere in any way with carrying out the duties of city employment.
(Code 1975, § 2-79; Code 1985, § 2-74; Ord. No. 85-206, §§ 2, 3, 8-13-1985; Ord. No. 85-211, §§ 2—4, 8-27-1985; Ord. No. 88-118, § 1, 3-22-1988; Ord. No. 04-110, § 1, 3-23-2004)
Sec. 2-138. - Health officer designated.
The District Director of Public Health, Southwest Georgia Public Health District, shall be the health officer of the city.
(Code 1975, § 13-2; Code 1985, § 2-75)
Secs. 2-139—2-161. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY CLERK AND ASSISTANT CITY CLERK

Sec. 2-162. - Duties—Generally.
The duties of the city clerk and assistant city clerk shall be:
(1)
To keep on file the original ordinances and resolutions adopted by the board of city commissioners from time to time, and maintain an index to same;
(2)
To issue all executions, as required by the ordinances or authorized by the board of city commissioners, bearing test in the name of the mayor, and keep an execution docket in which she shall enter all executions issued by her;
(3)
To keep books and records available at all times for inspection by the city manager, mayor and the board of city commissioners and their committees or any member thereof.
(Code 1975, § 2-101; Code 1985, § 2-86; Ord. No. 96-325, § 1, 10-22-1996)
Sec. 2-163. - Same—To board of city commissioners.
It shall be the duty of the city clerk, as the city clerk, to attend all meetings of the board of city commissioners, to keep the minutes and records of the same, to keep an index to the record and enter alphabetically therein the acts and doings of the board and she shall have custody and charge of all records, books and papers belonging to the city. All deeds, leases and other instruments executed by the board shall be attested by the city clerk, who shall affix thereto the official seal of the city.
(Code 1975, § 2-102; Code 1985, § 2-87)
Secs. 2-164—2-194. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY TREASURER

Sec. 2-195. - Bond and oath.
The city treasurer shall, before entering upon the discharge of her duties, give a bond with a solvent surety, to be approved of by the board of city commissioners, in such sum as the board shall require and shall take the oath of office as prescribed in section 2-130. The bond, if a personal one, shall have two or more good sureties and be subject to the approval of the board of city commissioners. Such bond may, at the discretion of the board of city commissioners, be given in any fidelity insurance company authorized by law to become surety on bonds of public officers and which has complied with all the laws of the state prerequisite to doing business in the state.
(Code 1975, § 2-111; Code 1985, § 2-96)
Sec. 2-196. - Deposit of funds.
The city treasurer shall deposit all money or cash assets of any kind belonging to the city and which shall come into her hands in such bank as the board of city commissioners by ordinance or resolution shall prescribe.
(Code 1975, § 2-112; Code 1985, § 2-97)
Secs. 2-197—2-215. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CITY ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-216. - Qualifications.
No person shall be elected city attorney who has not been duly admitted to the bar of the state, and who has not been in the active practice of law for at least five years.
(Code 1975, § 2-122; Code 1985, § 2-106)
Sec. 2-217. - Duties and powers—Generally.
(a)
The city attorney shall be the legal adviser of the city when called on for opinions from the proper heads of the different departments of the city. The city attorney may demand that the question proposed shall be fully made in writing. The city attorney shall be under no duty to act until the different matters properly referable to the legal department are referred to the city attorney for attention by the respective heads of the different departments of the city. The city attorney shall keep a record of all opinions rendered by the city attorney and of all cases brought by or against the city.
(b)
On request of the mayor and board of city commissioners or any member thereof, it shall be the duty of the city attorney to draft any ordinance or resolution for introduction. In such cases the city attorney may demand that the request be in writing, setting forth in detail the subject matter of the proposed ordinance.
(c)
When requested, the city attorney shall attend all committee or commission meetings of the city and in addition to the duties prescribed in this section, shall perform such other duties as are by ordinance imposed upon the city attorney's office.
(Code 1975, § 2-123; Code 1985, § 2-107)
Sec. 2-218. - Same—Legal representative of city.
The city attorney is hereby appointed as the legal representative of the city in all cases of litigation brought by or against the city.
(Code 1975, § 2-121; Code 1985, § 2-108)
Sec. 2-219. - Appointment alternatives.
The board of commissioners of the city may, at its option, appoint in-house counsel as city attorney. Such in-house city attorney shall function as an appointee of the board of commissioners, responsible directly to said board, and shall not be under the supervision of the city manager. If the board of commissioners appoints in-house counsel, the board will provide an office and such staff as it shall determine to be necessary, and shall fix the salary and remuneration of in-house counsel from time to time, which remuneration may include participation in such employee benefits as the board shall determine. A city attorney serving as in-house counsel shall not be permitted to engage in the private practice of law.
(Code 1985, § 2-109; Ord. No. 98-101, § 1, 1-28-1992)
Secs. 2-220—2-246. - Reserved.
