DIVISION 17. - MIX MIXED USED DISTRICT

Sec. 64-751. - Scope and intent.
The regulations in this division are the MIX district regulations. Article IX should be consulted to determine uses and minimum standards for uses allowed by administrative permit or use permit. The MIX district is intended to encourage flexible, innovative and creative concepts in site planning and efficient use of land and to provide a stable multiple-use environment compatible with surrounding uses. The MIX district is particularly encouraged in areas designated by the comprehensive plan land use map as suitable for commercial (including retail, service commercial and office) uses and in living-working corridors.
Sec. 64-752. - Use regulations.
The MIX district mandates a residential component of single-family dwellings, duplexes, triplexes, quadruplexes, townhouses, multifamily dwellings or any combination thereof along with at least two of the following: commercial, office or institutional uses. Within the MIX district, land and structures shall be used in accordance with standards herein. Any use not specifically designated as a permitted use in this section or as a use allowed by administrative permit or use permit shall be prohibited.
(1)
Permitted uses. Structures and land may be used for the following purposes:
a.
Single-family dwelling.
b.
Duplex.
c.
Triplex.
d.
Quadruplex.
e.
Townhouse.
f.
Multifamily dwelling.
g.
Roominghouse and boardinghouse.
h.
Art gallery.
i.
Assembly hall or event facility.
j.
Car wash, detail shop or service station located inside a parking garage as long as such uses are not visible from the exterior of the parking garage.
k.
Convalescent center/nursing home/hospice.
l.
Church, temple or other place of worship.
m.
Clinic.
n.
Community center building.
o.
Dancing school.
p.
Day care center.
q.
Financial establishment.
r.
Funeral home.
s.
Group residence.
t.
Gymnasium.
u.
Health club/spa.
v.
Hospital.
w.
Hotel.
x.
Institutions of higher learning including business colleges, music conservatories, and similar institutions.
y.
Library.
z.
Museum.
aa.
Office.
bb.
Parking garage/deck.
cc.
Parking lot.
dd.
Personal care home.
ee.
Recording studio.
ff.
Research laboratory.
gg.
Retail and/or service establishment.
hh.
Restaurant or fast food restaurant.
ii.
Stadium.
jj.
Theater.
kk.
All uses licensed and/or permitted under chapter 4.
(2)
Accessory uses. Structures and land may be used for uses customarily incidental to any permitted use and a dwelling may be used for a home occupation. No more than 25 percent of the total floor area of a building may be devoted to storage.
( Ord. No. 20-06-427 , § 1, 6-1-2020)
Sec. 64-753. - Development standards.
(a)
Height regulations. Structures shall be no higher than 60 feet, except with a use permit to exceed the maximum height.
(b)
Minimum development front yard shall be as specified in conditions.
(c)
Minimum development side yards shall be as specified in conditions.
(d)
Minimum development rear yard shall be as specified in conditions.
(e)
Minimum development frontage shall be 35 feet.
(f)
Minimum internal setbacks, separations, landscaping and buffering between uses shall be as specified in conditions.
(g)
Minimum lot area per dwelling unit for single-family or duplex shall be as specified in conditions.
(h)
Minimum lot frontage for single-family or duplex shall be 20 feet adjoining a street.
(i)
Minimum lot width for single-family or duplex. There shall be none, unless specified in conditions.
(j)
Minimum interior setbacks for single-family or duplex:
(1)
Minimum front yard: as specified in conditions.
(2)
Minimum side yard: as specified in conditions.
(3)
Minimum rear yard: as specified in conditions.
(k)
Minimum building separations. All building separations shall be as specified by the city's building code.
(l)
Minimum heated floor area per dwelling unit shall be as specified in conditions.
(m)
Minimum accessory structure requirements:
(1)
Single-family, duplex and townhouse accessory structures may be located in the rear or side yards only but shall not be located within a minimum yard.
(2)
Multifamily accessory structures shall not be located in the minimum front yard.
(n)
Minimum common outdoor area shall be 20 percent of the total site area shall be common outdoor area and shall be maintained by the property owner.
(o)
Pedestrian connectivity. All components are required to be interconnected with pedestrian paths constructed of either colored/textured materials or conventional sidewalk materials and clearly identified.
(p)
Parking. Subject to the approval of the director of the community development department, off-street parking as required by article VIII may be reduced and shared parking among uses may be permitted.
Sec. 64-754. - Other regulations.
The following headings contain some additional, but not necessarily all, provisions applicable to the MIX district:
(1)
Development regulations: article XVII of this zoning ordinance.
(2)
Exceptions: article II, division 3 of this zoning ordinance.
(3)
Floodplain management: article IV of this zoning ordinance.
(4)
Off-street parking and loading: article VIII of this zoning ordinance.
(5)
Outside storage: article II, division 2 of this zoning ordinance.
(6)
Landscape area and buffer regulations: article III of this zoning ordinance.
(7)
River protection: Metropolitan River Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq.
(8)
Signs: article XVI of this zoning ordinance.
(9)
Noise study report: section 64-2132.
Secs. 64-755—64-773. - Reserved.
