DIVISION 11. - R-5A SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT

Sec. 64-621. - Scope and intent.
The regulations set forth in this division are the R-5A district regulations. Article IX should be consulted to determine uses and minimum standards for uses allowed by administrative permit or use permit. The R-5A district is intended to provide land areas devoted to medium density, single-family dwellings. Land areas zoned R-5A are further intended to provide a transition between low and high density dwelling areas or between low density dwelling areas and nonresidential areas.
Sec. 64-622. - Use regulations.
Within the R-5A district, land and structures shall be used in accordance with standards herein. Any use not specifically designated as a permitted use in this section or as a use allowed by administrative permit or use permit shall be prohibited.
(1)
Permitted uses. Structures and land may be used for only the following purpose: Single-family dwelling.
(2)
Accessory uses. A structure or land may be used for uses customarily incidental to any permitted use and a dwelling may be used for a home occupation.
Sec. 64-623. - Development standards.
(a)
Height regulations. No building shall exceed 40 feet in height.
(b)
Minimum lot area shall be 4,000 square feet.
(c)
Minimum lot width. There shall be no minimum lot width unless specified in conditions.
(d)
Minimum lot frontage shall be 20 feet adjoining a street.
(e)
Minimum heated floor area per unit shall be as follows: Single-family dwellings: 850 square feet.
(f)
Minimum perimeter setback for the entire R-5A development shall be 40 feet.
(g)
Minimum interior setbacks, no orientation to buildings:
(1)
Minimum front yard: 20 feet.
(2)
Minimum side yard. To place a building along an interior side lot line at between zero and seven feet shall require an encroachment and maintenance easement allowing a minimum of seven feet of access to such buildings. A minimum building separation of 14 feet shall be maintained: 20 feet adjoining local streets.
(3)
Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
(h)
Minimum interior building separations. All building separations shall be as specified by the city's building code.
(i)
Minimum accessory structure requirements. Accessory structures may be located in rear or side yards but shall not be located within a minimum rear yard except that detached garages may locate along a rear lot line at between zero and seven feet with an encroachment and maintenance easement allowing a minimum of seven feet of access to the garage.
(j)
Conservation subdivision. The development standards of a conservation subdivision shall be in accordance with chapter 50, article V (subdivision regulations). Chapter 50, article V, conservation subdivision, is currently reserved.
Sec. 64-624. - Other regulations.
The following headings contain some additional, but not necessarily all, provisions applicable to the R-5A district:
(1)
Development regulations: article XVII of this zoning ordinance.
(2)
Exceptions: article II, division 3 of this zoning ordinance.
(3)
Floodplain management: article IV of this zoning ordinance.
(4)
Off-street parking and loading: article VIII.
(5)
Outside storage: article II, division 2 of this zoning ordinance.
(6)
Landscape area and buffer regulations: article III of this zoning ordinance.
(7)
River protection: Metropolitan River Protection Act. O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq.
(8)
Signs: article XVI of this zoning ordinance.
Secs. 64-625—64-643. - Reserved.
