Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration and enforcement of the construction codes, § 14-51 et seq.; emergency management agency, § 18-36 et seq.; court, ch. 22; elections, ch. 26; recreation commission, § 46-31 et seq.; personnel, ch. 50; planning, ch. 54; administrative authorities, app. A.
Related laws cross reference—Board of commissioners, art. II.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Duties of clerk regarding records management.
The county clerk is designated to act for and in behalf of the board of commissioners in directing and coordinating all records management matters.
(Ord. of 11-1-83)
Sec. 2-2. - Retention of records.
No record shall be destroyed except in accordance with approved retention schedules.
(Ord. of 11-1-83)
Sec. 2-3. - Second reading of ordinances required.
All ordinances must have a second reading before the official adoption except in extreme emergencies.
(Mo. of 5-3-88)
Secs. 2-4—2-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PURCHASING CARD AND CREDIT CARD ORDINANCE FOR EFFINGHAM COUNTY ELECTED OFFICIALS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— At the discretion of the editor, §§ I—VII of an ordinance adopted Dec. 15, 2015, pertaining to purchasing card and credit card ordinance for Effingham County elected officials, has been codified as herein set out in Art. II, §§ 2-21—2-27. Said provisions did not expressly amend the Code.

Sec. 2-21. - Intent and scope.
This article is intended to comply with the policy requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24 regarding the use of county issued government purchasing cards and credit cards.
(Ord. of 12-15-15, § I)
Sec. 2-22. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Authorized elected official means an elected official designated by public vote of the board of commissioners to receive a county issued government purchasing card or credit card.
Card administrator means the purchasing card and credit card administrator designated by the Effingham County Board of Commissioners.
County means Effingham County and/or the board of commissioners
County purchase card, county p-card or county credit card means a financial transaction card issued by any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, used by a county official to purchase gods, services and other things of value on behalf of the county.
Financial transaction card means an instrument or device as the term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-9-30(5).
User agreement means the required agreement between the board of commissioners and the authorized elected officials which restricts the use of a county purchasing card or credit card.
(Ord. of 12-15-15, § II)
Sec. 2-23. - Designated elected officials.
The Effingham County Board of Commissioners ("county"), in its discretion, may authorize specific county elected officials to use a county purchasing card or credit card by adoption of a resolution in a public meeting.
No authorized elected official may use a county purchasing card or credit card until and unless he or she has executed the county's purchasing card and credit card user agreement.
The county will not make payments to any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, for amounts charged by an elected official to any purchasing cards or credit cards that are not issued pursuant to this article or for any purchases that are not authorized by this article.
(Ord. of 12-15-15, § III)
Sec. 2-24. - Card administrator.
The board of commissioners shall designate the county purchasing card and credit card administrator as the Effingham County Finance Director. The responsibilities of the card administrator include:
(1)
Manage county issued purchasing cards and credit cards.
(2)
Serve as the main point of contact for all county purchasing card and credit card issues.
(3)
Serve as liaison to the elected officials authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff, as well as to the issuer of the purchasing card or credit card.
(4)
Provide training on card policies and procedures to the elected officials authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff.
(5)
Develop internal procedures to ensure timely payment of cards.
(6)
Assist authorized elected officials to dispute transactions when necessary.
(7)
Establish internal procedures to ensure compliance with this article, county procurement ordinances and policies, county purchasing card and credit card user agreements, applicable agreements with the business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, issuing card, and state law, specifically, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-9-37 and 36-80-24.
(8)
Document internal controls, audits and other measures to prevent and detect misuse or abuse of the cards.
(9)
Audit and reconcile transactions monthly.
(10)
Maintain records for at least seven years or as otherwise provided by the county's record retention policy.
(Ord. of 12-15-15, § IV)
Sec. 2-25. - Use of cards.
(a)
Authorized purchases. County purchase cards and credit cards may be used to purchase goods and services directly related to the public duties of the authorized elected official only. All purchases are subject to the terms of this article, the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement, county procurement policies and ordinances, and the adopted budget.
Only authorized elected officials may use a county purchase card or credit card for purchases or payments. The cards, and use of the cards, are not transferrable to employees. The authorized elected official shall use care to ensure that others do not have access to the card account number, expiration date and security code.
Unless otherwise approved by the governing authority or established in the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement, the transaction limits are as follows:
Per transaction: $1,500.00
Per month: $10,000.00
(b)
Unauthorized purchases. County purchasing cards and credit cards shall not be used for goods and services not directly related to the official responsibilities of the authorized elected official. Additionally, cards shall not be used to avoid compliance with the county's purchasing ordinances and procedures, to purchase goods and services that are not approved in the county's budget, to purchase goods and services exceeding the per transaction or per month limit, or to make purchases not in compliance with the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement.
(c)
Receipts and documentation. Receipts, invoices and other supporting documentation of all purchases made with a county purchasing card or credit card shall be obtained and maintained by the authorized county elected official for five years or as otherwise provided by the county's record retention policy. If an original or duplicate cannot be produced, a sworn affidavit of the authorized elected official may be substituted. The documentation must include the supplier or merchant information (i.e., name and location), quantity, description, unit price, total price, price paid without sales tax and an explanation of the purchase sufficient to show that the expense was in the performance of official county duties.
(d)
Public records. All receipt and other documentation of purchases are public records and subject to the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.
(Ord. of 12-15-15, § V)
Sec. 2-26. - Review of purchases and audit.
Proper documentation of purchases, internal controls and other measures prevent and allow detection to misuse or abuse of county issued purchase cards and credit cards. Authorized elected officials and staff that process payments under this program shall cooperate and comply with the procedures established by the county.
(1)
Review of purchases. All purchases shall be reviewed according to the following procedure:
• Receipts shall be submitted to the purchasing card administrator.
• The administrator shall review the charges to insure they are permissible and follow this policy.
• The administrator shall affect payment with current financial policies of the county.
(2)
Audits. The card administrator shall perform an annual review of the card program to ensure adequacy of internal policies and procedures, cardholder spending limits, monthly reconciliation procedures and documentation for transactions and provide to the Effingham County Board of Commissioners, elected officials and staff shall cooperate with such review. An inability to perform an annual review due to a lack of cooperation shall be reported to the board of commissioners for their review and action.
(Ord. of 12-15-15, § VI)
Sec. 2-27. - Violations.
(a)
An elected official shall reimburse the county for any purchases made with a county issued purchase card or credit card in violation of this article or the user agreement.
(b)
In the discretion of the county governing authority, failure to comply with the procedures outlined in this article may result in:
(1)
A warning;
(2)
Suspension of the elected official's authority to use a county purchase card or credit card; or
(3)
Revocation of the elected official's authority to use a county purchase card or credit card.
(c)
Nothing in this article shall preclude the county governing authority from referring misuse of a purchase card or credit card for prosecution to the appropriate authorities.
(Ord. of 12-15-15, § VII)
