ARTICLE 98-21. - SIGN ORDINANCE
This article shall hereafter be known and cited as the "City of Thomaston Sign Ordinance."

Sec. 98-21.1. - Purpose and findings.
A.
The mayor and city council find that signs are an essential medium through which businesses and individuals convey a variety of commercial and noncommercial messages. Thomaston leaders seek to create a community characterized by minimal visual clutter. Signs may be the primary generator of visual clutter. Controls on the number, location, size and height of signs offer a solution to minimizing visual clutter while affording a reasonable opportunity to communicate such messages. In the absence of appropriate controls, signs can become a threat to public safety on roadways and a substantial detriment to property values.
B.
Enforcement of sign standards is acknowledged as a legitimate exercise of zoning authority in regulating private development. The public and businesses are best served by adoption of standards that facilitate creation of an organized, limited array of signs. Appropriate standards ensure that individuals and businesses have an equal and reasonable opportunity to convey their messages.
C.
Signs by their very nature are intended to draw attention to the messages being displayed and have the potential to distract motorists and pedestrians. The city council has determined that such distractions represent substantial public safety risks. The intent of this article is to protect public health, safety, and welfare by establishing standards for the design, fabrication, placement, installation, illumination and maintenance of all signs and sign structures. The purpose of this article is to regulate sign size, height, number and location in a manner that serves the intended function without unduly interfering with motorists or otherwise causing unsafe conditions. The city council finds the standards of this article to be narrowly tailored to serve the best interests of the Thomaston community and encourages the use of the minimum sign display necessary to convey the desired message.
D.
A further purpose of this article is the preservation of the aesthetic qualities of the Thomaston community through adoption of appropriate sign standards. Signs are intended to command visual attention, giving signs a disproportionately greater impact relative to other structures in determining the aesthetic quality of the community. The visual impact of signs can substantially affect the enjoyment and value of surrounding properties. Accordingly, regulation of signs for the purpose of protecting property values is a valid function of local government.
E.
This article is also adopted to maintain content neutral standards for regulation of signs. The city finds that certain signs tend to serve a single function and that identification of such signs is nearly impossible without referring to that function. For example, address numbers are used for the sole purpose of identifying property by street address. Such signs are essential to public safety personnel, delivery services and visitors. Signs at the entrances to subdivisions or major developments serve a similar purpose in enabling visitors and emergency personnel to quickly locate such entrances for the purpose of visitation or emergency response. Similarly, regulation of the size, height, number and location of signs is necessary to enable the public to locate goods, services, and facilities in the city without difficulty or confusion. While such signs may be referenced by the function served, application of the standards of this article are unrelated to the content of the message.
F.
The intention of the city council in enacting these standards is to permit signs compatible with the development patterns and intensity of established zoning districts, to maintain an aesthetically attractive environment, to prevent clutter associated with excessive sign displays and to create a balanced set of sign standards that produce a well-maintained, safe and attractive community.
G.
Notwithstanding any other restrictions of this article, any sign authorized by this article may contain any message, other than messages containing obscenity as defined here, or a sign that advertises an activity that is illegal under state or federal laws. The standards of this article are not intended to restrict the content of sign messages. The intent of this article is also to expressly accommodate noncommercial messages in a manner identical to the manner in which commercial messages are accommodated.
H.
Accordingly, the city sign ordinance is adopted for the following purposes:
1.
Promote public health, safety and welfare;
2.
Enhance the local economy by promoting the reasonable, orderly and effective display of signs;
3.
Minimize visual clutter created by an excessive number and size of signs;
4.
Promote signs that reflect the appropriate scale, historic character, pedestrian orientation and desirable aesthetic qualities of the city;
5.
Adopt standards that safeguard life, public health, aesthetic quality and welfare by regulating the location, size, number, illumination, construction, maintenance and structural integrity of all signs;
6.
Promote the safety of persons and property by ensuring that signs and associated lighting that may be excessive; distracting; improperly designed, confusing or improperly situated; obstruct the vision of motorists or pedestrians; or create traffic or other hazards due to collapse, visual obstruction, decay or abandonment are prohibited;
7.
Improve the appearance of the city and protect property values by minimizing the potential for adverse impacts and visual blight created by certain signs or a proliferation of signs;
8.
Ensure the fair and equitable application and enforcement of sign standards;
9.
Balance the rights of individuals and businesses to convey their messages through signs and the right of the public to be protected against the unrestricted proliferation of signs; and
10.
Ensure the protection of the right to freedom of speech and expression provided by the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Georgia and, in no event, place restrictions that apply to any sign that are dependent on the constitutionally protected content of the sign.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.2. - Applicability.
A.
The standards, regulations and requirements of this article shall apply to all signs located within the corporate limits of the city that are visible or are intended to be visible from a street, a public right-of-way or adjacent property. Exemptions for the signs of public entities are established in section 98-21.4, exemptions.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.3. - Definitions.
Any term not defined in this section shall be as defined in section 98-2.3, definitions, of the zoning ordinance.
A.
Terms used in the singular shall include the plural; and the plural the singular; and terms used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
B.
Any terms not defined here shall be construed to have their common dictionary definition unless otherwise defined in the zoning ordinance.
C.
The term "shall" is mandatory, not discretionary. The term "may" is permissive.
D.
The term "lot" includes the terms "plot" and "parcel."
E.
The phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for," "designed for," "intended for," "maintained for" and "occupied as."
F.
The term "building" shall include the term "structure."
Abandoned sign. Any permitted sign or sign structure that was erected on a premises in conjunction with a particular use that has been discontinued for six months or more. The term also includes any sign characterized by broken panels, visible rust or rot, damaged support structures, missing letters or which is otherwise dilapidated, unsightly, or unkempt, and for which no person accepts maintenance responsibility and a sign that has ceased to be used through removal of copy, or deterioration of copy through lack of maintenance, but excluding temporary or short-term periods of remodeling, refurbishment or maintenance of the sign.
Examples—Abandoned signs
A-frame sign. A portable sign built to form an "A" that is readily moveable and is not permanently attached to the ground or any structure. Also referred to as "sandwich boards" and "sidewalk signs."
Anchor or signature tenant. The principal occupant of a shopping center or office park.
Animated sign. A sign featuring movement or a change or changes in color, lighting or message used to depict action or create a special effect or scene; signs that features the emission of smoke, noise, gas or other substance from the sign. Animated signs also include signs that rotate or revolve and signs involving motion, including hand held signs and signs otherwise displayed by using the body of a person. Signs that utilize the movement of air through a device for visual effect are considered animated signs. Animated signs shall not include changeable copy signs permitted by this article.
Awning sign. Any sign applied or attached directly to an awning.
Examples—Awning signs
Backlit or halo-lighted sign. A type of channel letter sign featuring lighting that is directed toward the back of the sign when mounted on a wall. The light floods the wall on which such sign is mounted creating a shadow that has the effect of lighting the space around the lettering.
Examples—Backlit or halo-lighted signs
Balloon sign. See inflatable sign.
Banner. A temporary sign made of cloth, paper, cardboard, canvas, plastic or similar material on which a message may be displayed. Banners are intended for use for a relatively short time and are typically attached to a building or freestanding structure, but may also be displayed as trash receptacle covers, tire covers, display rack covers or similar accessory structures. Flags and feather flag signs are specifically excluded from the definition of "banner."
Beacon. Any device that uses light in a rotational or intermittent pattern designed to attract attention to a specific location.
Billboard. Any ground sign with a sign display face greater than 300 square feet. Billboards may display a traditional static image, a "multiple message sign" accomplished by a mechanical transition to a second or third image or a "large screen video display" utilizing full motion video technology and commonly referred to as digital or LED (light-emitting diode) billboards.
Building. A structure enclosed within exterior walls having a roof for shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or property. Building includes the term structure.
Building facade. The portion of any exterior elevation of a building extending vertically from grade to the top of a parapet wall or eave and horizontally across the entire width of the building elevation.
Building marker. A plaque or similar tablet made of bronze, stone or other durable material permanently set into the exterior wall of a building in a manner rendering removal or replacement difficult without substantial damage to the building surface.
Building official. The individual or his or her designee authorized by the city manager to administer and enforce this article.
Canopy sign. A sign mounted on the vertical face of an attached building feature in the case of a marquee sign or a freestanding structure such as may be found at fueling stations intended to shelter the public from the elements. Marquee signs are canopy signs.
Examples—Canopy signs
Changeable copy sign. A sign that is designed so that characters, letters, or illustrations can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or surface of the sign. Such changes may be accomplished electronically or mechanically. Spectacular signs are not included in the definition of changeable copy sign.
Channel letter sign. A type of wall sign consisting of a three-dimensional graphic element that appears as individual letters as opposed to a message placed on a common background or frame. Channel letter signs may also be called individualized letter signs.
Examples—Channel letter signs
Channel letter construction, reverse signs. Channel letter construction with clear plastic backing that creates a halo-lit effect.
Examples—Various channel letters
City council. The elected body of the city comprised of the mayor, mayor pro tem and four district council members having the authority to adopt and enforce this article.
Copy. Any text, symbol or graphic content or message depicted on a sign.
Costume sign. An outfit worn to create the appearance or characteristics of a particular period, person, place, or thing and worn by a person to attract attention to a message being conveyed. Any other form of communication involving an individual is considered a hand held sign.
Customer merchandise sign. Any sign intended to be viewed by individuals on the premises whether inside or outside of a building.
Decal. A picture, design or label made to be transferred to glass, wood, metal or any other fixed object from specially prepared paper, plastic or similar material. Also, a label bearing the sign permit number and other permit information to be affixed on a sign to facilitate a compliance inspection by the building official.
Decision date. The date a final decision concerning a permit is rendered by the building official.
Dilapidated sign. Any sign or sign structure that contains damaged panels; visible rust or rot; damaged support or sign structures; broken, missing, loose or bent parts; faded or flaking paint; non-operational or partially non-operational illumination or that is otherwise deteriorated, unsightly, unkempt or in disrepair.
Dissolve. A mode of electronic or digital message or display transition on a changeable copy sign or multiple message billboard accomplished by varying the light intensity or pattern, where the first message or display gradually appears to dissipate and fade simultaneously with the gradual appearance of another message or display.
Double-faced sign. A sign structure with two sign faces that are parallel (back-to-back) or that form an angle to one another of no more than 60 degrees, where each sign face is designed to be seen from a different direction.
Drive-through sign. A ground sign located on a non-residential lot adjacent to a driveway leading to a drive-through window in any building located on the lot, and situated such that any message contained thereon is visible to pedestrians and motorists on the lot, but not easily read from a public right-of-way.
Example—Drive-through sign
Eave. The lowest horizontal line of a sloping roof.
Election period. The period of 45 days immediately preceding a federal, state, county or city election or referendum. This period shall also include the period of 45 days immediately preceding any primary or run-off election.
Electronic sign. An illuminated sign face without moving parts the content of which may be changed by an electronic process using intermittent light or lights, including light emitting diodes, liquid crystal display or plasma screen image display.
Entrance sign. Any ground sign placed at the intersection of a public street and a public or private entryway into a residential subdivision or an apartment, condominium, townhouse, office, institutional, commercial or industrial development.
Erect. To apply, assemble, attach, build, construct, hang, install, mount, paint, place, suspend or otherwise affix to a permanent building or a temporary, moveable building or other fixture on a lot.
Externally illuminated sign. A sign that has its lighting element or source installed outside the sign, directed toward the sign face, letters or sign message. Typical external lighting sources include fluorescent lighting, spotlights, floodlights, and gooseneck lamps. An externally illuminated sign shall have concealed wiring and controls, and shall have shielded and screened external light sources.
Examples—Externally illuminated signs
Feather flag sign. A temporary sign consisting of a pole driven into the ground or mounted on a base with an attached vertical material typically fabricated of cloth, paper, flexible plastic, fabric or similar lightweight material and resembling a feather, flag or sail. A feather flag sign is not a flag.
Examples—Feather flag signs
Festoons. Strings of ribbons, tinsel, small flags, pennants, streamers, pinwheels, or other devices or long narrow strips of fabric, plastic, and other pliable material designed to move in the wind or by mechanical fan. Festoons are considered animated signs.
Flag. A sign consisting of any fabric or similar material attached at one end to a pole or mounted on a building and hanging freely such that it may move in the wind. Feather flag signs are specifically excluded from the definition of "flag."
Flashing sign. Any sign on which the message, appearance, illumination, color, shape or size changes in intensity, scrolls, flashes or changes more often than once every ten seconds, including but not limited to, readerboards. Illuminated signs that display only the time, temperature, or date no more frequently than once every six seconds shall not be considered flashing signs.
Flex face sign. A sign comprised of a tensioned flexible PVC material that is stretched over a sign cabinet, serving as a sign cabinet cover. This sign type is often backlit and adds vibrant graphics to lighted sign cabinets. Flex face signs may also be non-illuminated.
Foot-candle. A basic unit of measurement of light on a surface that is one foot from the source of light of one candle; a unit of illuminance or the intensity to which something is illuminated.
Freestanding canopy sign. A sign erected on the face of a permanent freestanding canopy erected on a lot to afford protection from the elements. Such canopies are not connected to any building or other structure.
Freestanding sign. A sign anchored directly to the ground or supported by one or more posts, columns, or other vertical structures or supports, and not attached to or dependent for support on any building. See ground sign.
Ground sign. A class of signs that includes entrance, billboard, monument, pole and pylon signs permanently erected directly on the ground or supported by uprights or braces permanently placed in the ground and not supported by or suspended from any building or other structure.
Hand held sign. Any sign larger than six inches by six inches carried by a person, including but not limited to sign panels, picket signs and shields.
Hanging sign. A sign mounted under a marquee, canopy or awning perpendicular to the building face.
Example—Hanging sign
Holiday and seasonal decorations. Displays that pertain to a legal or other recognized holiday or to a season of the year that are exhibited for a maximum of 60 calendar days during a calendar year.
Illegal sign. Any sign that was not lawfully placed and maintained according to the sign regulations and standards in effect at the time of placement of the sign.
Illuminated sign. A sign designed to project artificial light directly or through translucent material from an internal or external light source.
Incidental sign. A small sign, emblem, or decal located on a building or structure. Such signs are normally located on doors, windows and fuel pumps, and are generally not readily visible or legible from public rights-of-way.
Indirect illumination. Illumination of a sign that is accomplished by a source of light not contained within the sign itself.
Inflatable sign. A sign intended to be filled with air or other gas, which may be of various shapes, made of flexible fabric or similar material, resting on or tethered to the ground or a structure, and designed for display or to attract attention. Inflatable signs are also known as balloon signs or air dancers. Such signs may or may not contain a message, text or symbol. Balloons less than two feet in diameter, if spherical or approximately spherical, or four cubic feet if not such a shape, shall not be considered inflatable signs.
Internally illuminated sign. Any sign lit by electric lights, fluorescent lighting, luminous tubing, and light-emitting diodes (LEDs) components or other light source that is internal to the sign structure and transmits light outward through a translucent sign face that ensures the light source is not visible.
Examples—Internally illuminated signs
LED sign. Any electronically controlled sign utilizing light-emitting diode technology to form a portion of or the entire sign message, whether that message is changeable or static. Such signs include any sign that uses LED technology of any kind, whether conventional (using discrete LEDs); surface mounted LEDs; transmissive, organic light emitting diodes (OLED); light emitting polymer (LEP); organic electro polymer (OEL); or any other similar technology. For the purposes of this article, personal electronic devices that display text including, but not limited to, cellular phones; digital watches and other devices worn on a person; computer desktops, laptops, and tablets; and computer monitors shall not be included in the definition of an LED sign or a sign.
LED strip lighting. Any lighting using LED technology used to attract attention and typically applied as a row or ribbon of lights to buildings, windows or glass doors as accent lighting.
Lot. A parcel, tract or area of land legally established by recorded plat, subdivision or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed or built upon and conforming to all standards of the zoning district in which such lot is located.
Lot frontage. The distance along which any property line and right-of-way line are coincident.
Luminance. Measure of the brightness of a sign face in nits or candelas per square meter.
Lumen. A measurement of light output. One lumen equals the amount of light falling on a one square foot area located one foot away from a single candle.
Marquee sign. A sign designed to have changeable copy, either manually or electronically and mounted on a permanent roof-like structure that projects horizontally from the wall of a building, generally designed to provide protection from the elements.
Example—Marquee sign
Median. A paved or landscaped area dividing any public or private right-of-way, road or highway into travel lanes and aligned parallel to the direction of vehicle travel.
Monument sign. A ground sign with a base positioned directly on the ground providing a solid and continuous platform for the sign face.
Examples—Monument signs
Mural. An artistic depiction of a variety of subjects painted or otherwise directly applied to a building or wall. Murals are generally classified as historic murals, original art murals and limited message murals.
Examples—Murals
Neon sign. An illuminated sign that emits various colors of light based on electrified glass tubes or bulbs that contain rarefied neon, argon or other gases.
Noncombustible material. Any material that will not ignite at or below a temperature of 1,200 degrees Fahrenheit and will not continue to burn or glow at that temperature.
Noncommercial sign. A sign that does not contain information or advertising for any business, commodity, service, entertainment, product, or other attraction. An example of a civic message deemed a noncommercial sign is illustrated below.
Example—Noncommerical sign
Nonconforming sign. Any sign lawfully erected and maintained prior to the effective date of this article that does not conform to the standards of this article.
Notice. Notice to any party shall be deemed to have been given when accomplished via hand delivery, email or certified mail, return receipt requested.
Obscene sign. Any sign containing nudity or depicting sexual conduct as defined by O.C.G.A. § 32-6-52 or as amended.
Official sign. A sign placed by or at the direction of a governmental body, governmental agency, board of education or public authority.
Parapet. The extension of a false front or wall above a roofline.
Parapet sign. A sign attached to the portion of a building exterior wall that projects above the plate line of a building provided such signs do not extend above the top of the parapet.
Pennant sign. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or similar material designed to move in the wind. Pennants are typically suspended from a rope, wire or string in series. The term "pennant" shall not include a "banner" or "flag" as defined in this article.
Permanent sign. A sign attached to a building or the ground in a manner that requires a permit and which is made of materials intended for long-term use. Banners and temporary signs are not considered permanent signs.
Person. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, trust, organization or any other entity of any kind.
Pole sign. A ground sign mounted on one or more poles, columns or similar supports set permanently in the ground.
Examples—Pole signs
Portable sign. A temporary sign mounted on a trailer intended to be mobile or to remain in place for a limited time, whether or not fastened to an object, building or staked to the ground; A-frame signs; balloons used as signs; beacons; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless such vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
Example—Portable signs
Primary facade. The exterior wall of the building most nearly parallel to the street providing primary access to the lot.
Projecting sign. Any sign attached perpendicularly to a building and extending beyond the front line of the building to which the sign is attached; also called a blade sign.
Examples—Projecting signs
Property address signs. Property addresses, including multifamily building and unit numbers, displayed on a building, mailbox or curb.
Pylon sign. A ground sign comprised of a sign face mounted on a support base that is the same width as the sign face. A pylon sign is distinguished from a pole sign in that the support member of a pylon sign features an opaque panel extending from grade to the bottom of the sign face.
Examples—Pylon signs
Readerboard. A type of sign designed to allow a changeable message whether by mechanical or electronic means. See definition of "flashing sign."
Reflectors. Any device used for reflecting light directed at the device to render the device more visible or noticeable.
Residence. A house, dwelling or place occupied by an individual, family or household on a permanent basis.
Right-of-way. An area of land over which the city has the authority, by ownership or easement, to construct a public street, sidewalk or to install public utilities or streetscape elements.
Road frontage. The distance along which a lot abuts any public street measured in linear feet.
Roof sign. Any sign erected on the roof of a building and displayed above the lowest horizontal line of the building roof. A sign above a parapet wall, above the deck line of a mansard roof, above a freestanding or attached canopy or above a building marquee is considered a roof sign. An example of a roof sign is illustrated below, followed by two examples of signs that for the purposes of this article are not considered roof signs.
Example—Roof sign
Examples—Not roof signs for this chapter's purposes
Roofline. The highest continuous horizontal line of a building roof. On a sloping roof, the roofline is the principal ridgeline, or the highest line common to one or more principal slopes of a roof. On a flat roof, the roofline is the highest continuous line of the roof or parapet, whichever is the higher. On a mansard roof, the roofline is the top of the mansard feature.
Rotating sign. A sign that utilizes electronic, mechanical or other motorized means to produce movement of any part of a sign.
Sandwich board sign. A self-supporting, movable A-frame sign limited to two visible sides not secured or attached to the ground or surface on which the sign is located. Also known as a sidewalk sign.
Scrolling. A form of message or display transition on a changeable copy sign or multiple message sign where the message or display appears to move without fading or dissolving across or up and down the display surface.
Secondary facade. Any exterior wall of a building that is most nearly parallel to an adjoining street that is not the primary facade. A secondary facade may also be an exterior building wall to the rear of the primary facade and may adjoin a parking lot rather than a street. The end elevation of a building shall also be considered a secondary facade.
Searchlight sign. Any use of a powerful beam of light directed skyward used to attract attention shall be considered a sign.
Sign. Any character, design, device, display, emblem, figure, fixture, frame, illumination, letter, mark, numeral, picture, placard, plane, point, representation, stripe, stroke, symbol, text, trademark, trade name, or other message technique or combination thereof that uses any color, form, graphic, illumination, symbol, written or visual presentation of any kind to advertise, announce, attract attention, or identify a product, place, activity, individual, institution, business, or other entity to convey a message or information of any kind to the public. The term shall not include any flag, badge, or insignia of any governmental unit, nor any merchandise normally shown in a display window of a business.
Sign area. The area of a sign shall be calculated as the area within the smallest continuous polygon comprised of not more than eight straight lines enclosing the limits of a sign face, not including the area of any structural elements lying outside of the limits of the display face of the sign and not forming an integral part of the display. The area of a window sign, including signs affixed to a door, shall be calculated as the area within the smallest continuous polygon that encompasses all portions of the sign. Individual window signs that are within 24 inches of one another window sign shall be considered as a single window sign. The sign area of a double-faced sign having unequal faces shall be the area of the larger sign face. Double-faced signs having an interior angle formed by the faces greater than 60 degrees shall be considered individual sign faces and the area of each face shall be used in calculating sign area. The area of a cube-shaped sign shall be the area of the two largest sign faces. Sign area for monument signs shall include any tablet or similar surface on which the sign face is displayed.
Sign copy. All words, letters, numbers, figures, characters, art work, symbols, insignia, emblems, devices, trademarks, trade names or similar elements, or any combination thereof, by which anything is made known used on a display surface and designed to attract attention or convey a message.
Sign, digital. An electronic sign that uses LED (light emitting diode) screens, plasma panels, or any similar electronic devices or technology as the digital sign face where content is displayed. Fuel price signs are now nearly universally digital signs.
Example—Digital signs
Sign, dilapidated: Any sign found to be structurally unsound, containing defective parts, or in need of routine maintenance based on a reasonable determination by the building official.
Sign, face. That portion of a sign used for the display of any graphics, letters, numerals, or characters including any background material, panel, trim, color, or illumination that differentiates the sign from a building facade or sign structure.
Sign, flashing. A sign characterized by changes in the intensity of illumination at all times when in use.
Sign, freestanding. Any permanent sign attached to a structure installed directly in the ground and which is wholly independent of any building or other support.
Sign height. The vertical distance measured from the surface of the nearest adjacent street at a point on the street centerline nearest and perpendicular to the proposed location of the sign to the highest point of the sign or sign structure, or the vertical distance from the grade at the location of the sign to the highest point of the sign or sign structure, whichever is greater.
Sign, illuminated. A sign directly or indirectly lit by gas, electricity or other artificial light including reflective or fluorescent light.
Sign, number. For purposes of determining the number of signs, sign elements displayed on a single sign face or building facade, including windows, shall be considered one sign, provided sign elements on a window or building facade that separated by more than 24 inches shall be considered to be two or more signs.
Sign setback. The minimum distance required between any property line and any portion of a sign or sign structure.
Sign structure. Any portion of a freestanding base, supports, uprights, or braces the primary purpose of which is to support a sign and excluding those portions of any such structure the primary purpose of which is to serve an architectural function such as a building wall, freestanding wall, entrance wall, fence, gate, etc.
Silhouette sign. A silhouette sign is a type of wall sign formed by cutting individual letters in a surface or applying individual letters to a wall as to create a message.
Example—Silhouette sign
Site triangle. An area of at each corner of an intersection of public or private streets or driveways that is maintained free of obstructions that may block the view of a motorist.
Snipe sign. A stake sign or sign posted on a tree, utility pole or other structure which is not designed for placement of a sign. A sign placed in the public right-of-way by an appropriate public agency shall not be deemed a snipe sign.
Examples—Snipe signs
Special event. Any planned occasion occurring within the municipal limits of the city that does not take place on a daily, weekly, monthly, or quarterly basis and is designed as a celebration or is an irregular occurrence intended to attract business or raise donations. The term "special event" includes, but is not limited to, grand openings, seasonal sales, liquidations, going-out-of-business sales, vehicle shows or displays, craft shows, rummage sales, bake sales, promotional events, festivals and holiday celebrations.
Special event signs. Banners, streamers, beacons, searchlights and laser lights or similar devices, flags, feather flag signs, festoons, sign spinners, wavers, costumed characters or street performers with sign devices, including hand held devices for promotion of a grand opening or similar event of community interest.
Spectacular sign. A sign that is animated, flashing, scrolling or otherwise involves the movement of the sign message, wired for lights or luminous tubing or both, or featuring copy-controlled action utilizing flashed circuit breakers, computers or other electrical, electronic or mechanical means.
Stake sign. Any sign having an area of six feet or less supported by a minimum of one upright placed in the ground and not supported by or suspended from any building.
Standard billboard. A billboard that is not a multiple message billboard.
Statutory sign. A sign required by any statute or regulation of the State of Georgia or the United States.
Streamer. Any long, narrow flag, banner, tinsel or roping that is hung or strung from any structure to another structure or to the ground; also referred to as a pennant.
String lights. Lights that are placed on ropes, wires or other devices often used for decorative purposes such as accenting trees, canopies or building lines. Strings lights used in holiday applications may be multicolored.
Structural change or repair. Any reinforcement, replacement, bolstering, augmenting or substitution of a support element of a sign structure, including but not limited to, alteration or replacement of the foundation, support structures, columns, beams, sign frame or sign head for any purpose other than to render the sign structure safe.
Swinging sign. Any sign mounted such that the sign may freely move back and forth.
Temporary sign. Any sign or device not permanently attached to the ground or other permanent structure designed to be mobile or to remain in place for a limited time. Temporary signs include, but are not limited to, signs designed to be transported regularly from one location to another, signs designed with wheels, regardless of whether the wheels remain attached to the sign, or signs tethered to an existing structure. These signs also include, but are not limited to, skylights, balloons, streamers, feather flag signs, flag strings, inflatable signs, banners, beacons, searchlights, pennants, portable signs, A-frame signs, sandwich boards, sidewalk signs, costume signs and hand held signs. Temporary signs shall not include stake signs.
Example—Temporary sign
Tri-vision sign. A sign designed with a series of triangular slats that mechanically rotate in sequence to display three different sign messages in rotation. For purposes of this article, a tri-vision sign is not a changeable copy sign.
Vehicle mounted signs. Any sign or combination of signs having a total sign area exceeding nine square feet and painted or mounted on, attached to or affixed in any fashion to a vehicle, freight vehicle, flatbed, utility trailer, storage trailer or other conveyance, including signs erected within truck beds or signs wrapped on a vehicle, whether motorized or drawn, that is placed, parked or maintained in such a manner as to be visible from a public right-of-way or neighboring property or driven from place to place for the express purpose of promotion or conveying a message. Vehicle mounted signs also include digital signs mounted on a vehicle. This term shall not apply to the following circumstances:
1.
Such conveyances are actively being used to load, transport or unload persons, goods or materials in the normal course of business; or
2.
When such conveyances are parked in an inconspicuous area such as a loading dock or to the side or rear of a building.
Example—Vehicle sign
Wall sign. Any sign mounted parallel to or flush with any exterior building wall, painted on a wall surface or otherwise attached to an outside wall of any building that may include a door. Channel letter signs and silhouette signs are types of wall signs.
Examples—Wall sign
Window sign. Any sign visible to the public that is mounted on a window or displayed inside a building within 12 feet of a window in any manner to be visible from a public right-of-way. Such signs shall be used in the calculation of sign area. Where a structural or architectural element of the structure interrupts the window or system of windows, such window area shall be considered a different window. The term "window sign" shall also include any sign posted on or otherwise affixed to a glass door.
Example—Window sign
Zoning district. The classification of parcels of land as defined in the city zoning ordinance and designated on the official zoning map.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.4. - Exemptions.
This section establishes two exemption categories. The first category addresses signs that are exempt from obtaining a sign permit. The second category addresses signs that are exempt from the standards of this article. Each category is identified below:
A.
A permit shall not be required for the following signs, provided all standards of this article are met.
1.
Temporary signs mandated by federal law, state law or by this Code.
2.
Notices posted by any railroad or other transportation or transmission entity essential for protecting public safety.
3.
Signs not exceeding six square feet in area placed on a lot.
4.
Wall signs with a sign area of not more than two square feet placed on a building located on a lot.
5.
Window signs, subject to the standards of this article.
6.
Door signs not to exceed one square foot in area and not more than one sign per door.
7.
Flags, subject to the provisions of section 98-21.13, sign standards by sign type.
8.
Replacement of removable sign panels on a sign structure such that the sign structure is not replaced or modified in any way. This includes replacement of sign panels within a multi-tenant pole or pylon sign, or replacement of a panel in a wall sign when the replacement of such panels does not require replacement or modification of the sign structure.
9.
Numerals displayed for the purpose of identifying the property address not to exceed a six-inch maximum for residential uses and a 12-inch maximum for non-residential uses.
10.
A-frame, sidewalk or sandwich signs located within ten feet of the entrance to a place of business on the same lot.
11.
Balloons having a maximum area of two cubic feet each and up to five per non-residential lot. Such devices may only be displayed for a maximum of two weeks following the opening of a business or while a business has an approved event permit in effect.
B.
Promotional event signs. Banners, streamers, beacons, searchlights and laser lights or similar devices, flags, feather flag signs, festoons, sign spinners, wavers, costumed characters or street performers with sign devices, including hand held devices for promotion of a grand opening or similar event of community interest may be displayed two weeks prior to the event and through the period of the event which shall not exceed 30 days following the date of the grand opening or similar event, subject to approval by the city manager. An application for a permit to display such signs must be submitted to the city clerk a minimum of one week prior to the date the signs are to be displayed. Upon approval of the application, a permit will be issued by the city clerk at no cost to the applicant.
C.
The following signs shall be exempt from the standards of this article, unless otherwise provided. Exempt signs may also be displayed without a permit.
1.
Signs not visible from the public right-of-way and not intended to be seen by the public.
2.
Signs within a business, office, mall or other totally enclosed area.
3.
Signs erected by, or on the order of, a public official in the performance of his or her duty. Such signs may be located within the public right-of-way.
4.
Signs on all buildings, structures and property owned or operated by the city shall be exempt from the standards of this article.
5.
Swinging or projecting signs not exceeding three square feet or projecting more than four feet from the building and attached under the eave or awning of a building above a business entrance.
6.
One official sign as required by the state for licensed vehicle emissions stations. Such signs shall not exceed 24 inches in width and 36 inches in height.
7.
Signs affixed to an automated teller kiosk and accompanying canopy serving as an accessory use to a bank or financial institution on the same lot.
8.
Signs on coin-operated vending machines and fuel pumps provided the pumps are designed to accommodate such signs and further provided that such signs are an integral part of the fuel pump structure and shall be no larger than the fuel pump structure.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.5. - General provisions.
A.
Owner responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the sign owner to maintain and insure conformance to all provisions of this article.
B.
Owner permission. All signs or devices erected or placed as allowed by this article shall be located on the property of the person who erects such signs or on property, the owner of which has given written permission for such placement.
C.
Distance measurement. For purposes of measuring the distance of signs from property, such distance shall be measured as the shortest distance from the nearest portion of the sign to the property boundary or another sign, as appropriate to the context.
D.
Compliance required. It shall be unlawful for any person to place, erect, locate, or allow any sign within the city that does not fully comply with the provisions of this article.
E.
Signs to be on a lot containing a valid use. All signs except billboards and temporary signs must be located on property for which a permit or a certificate of occupancy has been issued, and remains valid, for a use of land or a building, or on property containing a legal, nonconforming use.
F.
Responsibility for interpretation. The building official shall be responsible for interpreting the standards, requirements, definitions and any other provision of this article. The building official shall provide a written response to a request for an interpretation of this article filed with the city clerk within ten business days of receipt of such a request. Any appeal of an interpretation by the building official shall be subject to the appeal procedures of section 98-21-15, appeals.
G.
Legal authority. This article is enacted pursuant to Article IX, Counties and Municipal Corporations, Section II, Home Rule for Counties and Municipalities, Paragraph IV, Planning and Zoning, of the 1983 Georgia Constitution, as amended through January 1, 2017; the express powers granted in the Charter of the City of Thomaston (1933 Ga. Laws, page 1070); the general police powers of Georgia municipal corporations; and other authority provided by applicable federal, state or local laws.
H.
Any time periods provided in this article shall be deemed to commence on the date of service as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 9-11-4.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.6. - Construction standards.
All signs installed in the city shall comply with the construction standards of this section.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.7. - Code compliance.
A.
Code compliance. All signs permitted under this article shall be fabricated, installed and maintained in accordance with all provisions of this article, applicable editions of the Standard Building Code, as amended, and the National Electrical Code, as amended, and applicable to electrified signs. City construction, life safety, zoning and other relevant codes and ordinances shall be applicable to the fabrication, siting and maintenance of all signs and shall be read in harmony with this article.
B.
Enforcement and inspection. The building official shall be responsible for enforcing all applicable codes. All signs shall be subject to inspection by the building official from time to time to assess continuing compliance with all applicable codes and ordinances and to ensure that all signs have been fabricated of appropriate and sound materials that will protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
C.
Sign materials. The base of monument and pylon signs shall be constructed of brick, stone or metal and which base shall have a minimum height of two feet measured from the adjacent grade. The edges and backs of all wall signs shall be fully encased in metal or other noncombustible material. All signs comprised of plastic materials, including copy, facing and display surfaces, shall comply with American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) D 65.
D.
Sign faces. The display face of a sign shall be flat, with projections of no more than two inches to allow for the texture of the sign and words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, features, colors or other design elements. No sign or other advertising device shall have nails, tacks, wires or other hazards projecting from the face of the sign. Any sign panels shall be finished in a uniform background color and comprised of uniform material. All freestanding signs shall display the numerical property address of non-residential properties having a minimum height of six inches and a maximum height of 12 inches or as required by applicable codes.
E.
Electrified signs. All signs fitted with any electrical devices or circuits when illumination is permitted shall display a label certifying approval by Underwriter's Laboratories, Inc. All electrical signs and all electrical devices shall be built in compliance with all applicable building and electrical codes adopted by the city. No sign supplied with electrical power shall be erected within six feet of the projection of any overhead power line downward to the ground.
F.
Sign maintenance. All signs, together with all anchors, braces, frames and supports shall be maintained in good repair and safe condition. Signs shall be kept free of excessive rust, corrosion, peeling paint or other surface deterioration. The display surfaces of all signs shall be neatly painted or otherwise treated and properly affixed to the frame and support structure. Signs that are faded, torn, damaged or otherwise unsightly, or in a state of disrepair, shall be repaired or removed within 30 calendar days following written notice from the building official. All signs shall comply with the following requirements:
1.
All burned-out bulbs, LED components or other faulty lighting fixtures and damaged sign faces and panels in any existing signs shall be replaced within five business days following written notice from the building official.
2.
All sign copy shall be securely fastened to the sign face; all missing copy and sign panels shall be replaced within five business days following written notice from the building official.
3.
Signs shall be maintained at all times so as not to be detrimental to public health and safety. Such maintenance includes, but is not limited to, keeping the sign free from faulty wiring, loose fastenings and sharp or otherwise dangerous protrusions.
G.
Minimum sign setback.
1.
No portion of a sign shall be located less than five feet from the right-of-way from which access to the property is gained.
2.
No sign or sign structure of any kind shall be located less than ten feet from a side or rear property line or within a required landscape area or buffer.
H.
Ground clearance under signs. Signs over a public or private sidewalk shall be maintained a minimum of eight feet above the sidewalk.
I.
Visibility clearance. Any portion of a sign located within 20 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of two or more streets, the intersection of the edge of a driveway and the right-of-way line of a street, or a street intersection with a railroad line shall not exceed 30 inches in height, or be placed less than ten feet above the adjacent grade, nor otherwise obstruct visibility or pose a threat to motorist, cyclist or pedestrian safety.
J.
Affixing. No sign shall be erected by nailing, fastening or affixing in any manner to any rock, tree, or utility pole.
K.
Free access. No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained to prevent free access to any door, window, or fire escape; nor shall any sign be attached to any standpipe or fire escape.
L.
Supports. No message shall be displayed on any portion of the structural supports of a sign.
M.
Site maintenance.
1.
The area around all signs shall be maintained clear of trees, shrubbery and other obstacles in a manner to render signs readily visible.
2.
Trash or other debris shall not be allowed to accumulate in the area around a sign and all weeds and other undesirable plants shall be eliminated. Such maintenance shall extend to the area within ten feet of the base of the sign.
3.
All landscape materials indicated on the approved site plan that do not survive shall be replaced no more than 30 calendar days following written notification from the building official.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.8. - Prohibited signs.
A.
The following signs shall be prohibited throughout the city:
1.
Abandoned signs.
2.
Animated signs, including rotating signs or animated signs involving motion of any part of the sign.
3.
Any billboard greater than 300 square feet or any stacked or side-by-side billboard.
4.
Any sign nailed, mounted, tacked on, painted, posted, or otherwise affixed to a fence, utility pole, street sign or similar structure or affixed to a tree, rock or other natural feature.
5.
Any sign on or over public property except where specifically allowed by the entity with control over such property, and except for projecting, hanging and awning signs in the historic downtown district that may overhang public sidewalks or an alley, provided the sign does not prevent safe vehicle traffic along a public right-of-way or pedestrian travel on sidewalks.
6.
Any sign that by reason of size, shape, height, location, color or illumination interferes with motorist, cyclist or pedestrian vision; obstructs or detracts from view or simulates any traffic control or warning sign or device; any signal or public service sign on public streets or otherwise constitutes a traffic hazard.
7.
Any sign resembling an official traffic control sign, signal or device that contains words or symbols displayed in a manner that could mislead or confuse motorists, cyclists or pedestrians.
8.
Any sign that displays intermittent lights resembling the flashing lights customarily used in emergency vehicles that might mislead or confuse motorists, cyclists or pedestrians.
9.
Any sign resembling the color, size, shapes, or order of lights customarily used on law enforcement vehicles that creates a safety risk to motorists or otherwise interferes with the safe and orderly movement of traffic except as part of a public or private traffic-control sign.
10.
Any sign that features flashing, blinking, intermittent, scrolling, animated illumination or effect or signs using varying light intensities, provided signs meeting all standards of the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices and installed for the safety or control of traffic shall be exempt from this prohibition.
11.
Time and weather information signs having a total sign area no greater than 12 square feet and official warning or regulatory signs erected by an appropriate governing authority shall be also exempt from this prohibition.
12.
Any sign that advertises any activity, service or product prohibited by the laws or regulations of the United States or the State of Georgia or by the ordinances or resolutions of the city.
13.
Automatic changeable copy signs within the geographic area defined on the downtown development authority map.
14.
Beacons, searchlights and laser lights or similar devices.
15.
Dilapidated signs that are not maintained; in disrepair; in violation of city codes; or containing broken panels, visible rust, visible rot, damaged support structures, or missing copy.
16.
Any sign that display a false statement or statements calculated to mislead the public as to anything sold, services to be performed or information disseminated. The fact that any such sign or display contains words or language sufficient to mislead a reasonable person shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section by the person displaying such sign or permitting such sign to be displayed.
17.
Feather flag signs.
18.
Festoons.
19.
Flags, except as allowed under section 98-21.13, sign standards by sign type.
20.
Any sign attached to a pole or other structure on which sign displays are not the intended purpose.
21.
Any attention seeking device that is wind-activated or an air- or gas-filled device such as inflatable figures and balloons greater than two feet in diameter or that exceed three cubic feet per device.
22.
Any LED light strips, light strings, lights part of a series, ropes, row of lights or other configurations; any such light that flashes, scrolls or crawls; and any such sign placed in the interior of a building within 12 feet of any transparent or translucent window or door in a manner clearly visible from a street or public right-of-way, except that a single sign having a maximum area of three square feet that may be illuminated shall be allowed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, white non-LED string lights consisting in whole or in part of a series, line or row of lights, whether supported or connected by cables, wires or other physical means for nighttime use for lighting outdoor seating areas and colored string lights and decorations displayed during the months of November, December and January and shall be exempted from this section.
23.
Non-shielded illuminated signs affecting pilot visibility or creating a hazard to air navigation.
24.
Obscene signs, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80(b).
25.
Pennants and streamers.
26.
Portable signs except A-frame, sidewalk and sandwich signs, but including signs in excess of three square feet attached to any parked vehicle or any sign mounted on a trailer so as to be visible from a public right-of way.
27.
Roof signs or any sign that extends vertically above any portion of a roof or parapet wall.
28.
Any sign attached or affixed to bus shelters or bus benches, with the exception of signs approved by the appropriate governing authority.
29.
Any sign that emits or produces in any manner any sound capable of being detected from the public right-of-way by a person with normal hearing.
30.
Any sign that emits an odor or a visible substance such as smoke or vapor.
31.
Any sign on public rights-of-way, other than publicly owned or maintained signs.
32.
Any sign or device using confusing, distracting, or intense illumination or distracting motion when visible from a public right-of-way. No sign or device shall be permitted that utilizes intense flashing (strobe type) lights, spot lights, floodlights, search lights, flashing or blinking lights, or any type of pulsating or moving light that may impair vision, cause glare or otherwise impact public safety.
33.
Any sign that obstructs free access to or from any building, door, window or fire escape or that prevent free passage from one part of a roof to any other part. No sign shall interfere with any opening required for ventilation or used for fire prevention or suppression, nor shall any such sign be attached to any standpipe or fire escape.
34.
Any sign within public rights-of-way or any other public property, other than those belonging to a government, public service agency or signs within a railroad right-of-way and serving a railroad purpose.
35.
Any sign, fliers, bills, posters, or any other such object placed on or affixed to any feature within the public right-of-way or any publicly owned building located within or outside a public right-of-way. Such signs shall be removed immediately upon written notice by the Thomaston building official. Any damage or defacement resulting from such prohibited placement shall be immediately repaired or otherwise corrected by the responsible party.
36.
Snipe signs.
37.
Sign spinners, wavers, costumed characters or street performers with sign devices, including hand held devices.
38.
Temporary signs, except as allowed by subsection 98-21.9.1, temporary signs.
39.
Any sign placed on a security fence associated with a telecommunications facility or compound, a telecommunications monopole or lattice tower or any telecommunications antenna, except that one sign having a maximum area of four square feet may be placed on each side of a security fence enclosing a telecommunications facility or compound. The signs depicted below that are mounted on a lattice tower would be deemed a nonconforming sign as concerns the size and number of signs. The billboard is a freestanding sign unaffected by this subsection.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.9. - Temporary signs, banners and stake signs.
This section addresses three sign types: temporary signs, banners and stake signs. Banners are temporary signs; banners and stake signs are each associated with standards unique to banners and stake signs. Standards for other temporary signs are addressed in section 98-21.13, sign standards by sign type.
98-21.9.1. Temporary signs.
A.
A permit shall be required for all temporary signs unless otherwise exempted by subsection 98-21.9.3, stake signs, or section 98-21.4, exemptions. All permit documentation approving a temporary sign shall be maintained by the owner and available for inspection by the building official during regular business hours.
B.
Temporary signs shall be removed immediately upon expiration of the permit.
C.
Temporary signs may be located on private property, subject to the standards and restrictions of this article.
D.
The maximum allowable dimensions of a temporary sign shall be as established in section 98-21.13, sign standards by sign type.
E.
One temporary sign shall be allowed on each street frontage of a non-residential lot during construction or renovation. Such signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area or six feet in height, and shall be allowed beginning with commencement of construction and ending with issuance of a certificate of occupancy or installation of a permanent sign, whichever comes first.
F.
Temporary signs shall be removed by the owner when they become weathered or otherwise fall into disrepair.
G.
All temporary signs, with the exception of stake signs, shall be securely installed, and shall meet all applicable safety standards as prescribed by the building code, 2020 National Electrical Code or as promulgated by the building official and approved by resolution of mayor and city council.
H.
Temporary signs shall not be located within or over a public right-of-way, and shall not extend over any alley or driveway unless a minimum ground clearance of 16 feet is maintained. Temporary signs placed within a public right-of-way shall be subject to confiscation.
I.
Temporary signs shall not be illuminated, unless otherwise allowed.
J.
City fire department approval shall be required for any gas-filled figure or device.
K.
The building official may give written notice of a violation to the owner of any lot on which a temporary sign is erected in violation of this article or any other applicable ordinance or law of the city. Such sign shall be removed within three business days of receipt of such notice. In the event the sign is not thereafter removed, the city may cause removal of such sign and may impose the cost of removal as a lien on the property.
98-21.9.2. Banners. While banners and other signs as defined in section 98-21.3, definitions, are temporary signs, banners may be larger than such other signs and are typically designed in a specific configuration. Accordingly, the following standards shall apply to banners, only:
A.
Banners shall only be allowed in nonresidential and multifamily zoning districts and only for a period not to exceed 30 consecutive days and a maximum of 60 days in a calendar year on a single lot. A permit for a banner shall not be issued more frequently than once every three months.
B.
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A., above, banners may also be displayed in conjunction with seasonal sales between November 15th and January 1st of each year.
C.
Only one banner may be displayed on a building or a lot at a time, provided each tenant in a multi-tenant building may display a single banner mounted on the building wall facing the primary street from which access to the business is gained. Banners mounted on a wall shall not exceed an area of 32 square feet.
D.
Banners attached to a building wall shall not extend above such building wall or beyond the face of the building. Banners shall not be placed on the roof of any building.
E.
Banners mounted directly on the ground shall be limited to a maximum height of six feet, a maximum area of 32 square feet and shall be located a minimum of five feet from any property line. Such banners shall be limited to the display of one banner per lot, provided each tenant in a multi-tenant building may display a single banner.
F.
Banners shall be securely attached to poles, mast arms, fences, building facades or similar structures.
G.
A minimum clearance of eight feet from ground level to the bottom of the sign shall be provided for banners displayed under a canopy.
98-21.9.3. Stake signs.
A.
Stake signs of professional quality may be placed on a lot by the property owner, or with the written approval of the property owner. One stake sign for every 100 linear feet of street frontage shall be allowed on commercial properties.
B.
Individual stake signs shall be limited to a maximum height of four feet and a maximum area of six feet.
C.
Owners of developed residential properties may display a maximum of three stake signs without obtaining a permit or payment of any fees.
D.
Stake signs shall contain no reflective elements, and may be mounted on a wooden stake or metal frame having a maximum thickness or diameter of one inch.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.10. - Sign illumination.
A.
Generally. No sign or illumination shall be fabricated, maintained, placed or used at any location where it may interfere with or obstruct the view of an authorized traffic control device. Nor shall any sign be fabricated, maintained, placed or used that by reason of its position, shape or color may be confused with an authorized traffic control device or emergency vehicle device or marking. Illuminated signs as may be permitted shall be installed and operated in such a manner to prevent glare from being a hazard or interfering with the normal use of the public rights-of-way and adjoining properties. No flashing or animated illumination or effects shall be allowed. No illuminated sign shall cast light directly on a public right-of-way, street, road or adjacent property. Light from any illuminated sign shall not be of an intensity that will interfere with the peace, comfort, convenience, and general welfare of residents or occupants of adjacent properties.
B.
Types of illumination.
1.
Externally-illuminated sign. An externally illuminated sign, also known as indirect illumination, shall have concealed wiring and controls, and shall have shielded and screened external light sources. Externally-illuminated signs shall not exceed 55 foot-candles and shall be designed to minimize any light trespass beyond the sign face. Indirect sign illumination shall also comply with the 2017 United States Sign Council Foundation Best Practice Recommendations and Standards for On-Premise Sign Lighting.
2.
Internally-illuminated sign. The light source in internally-illuminated signs shall be completely shielded from view. All internally-illuminated signs shall feature an ambient light monitor that continuously monitors and automatically adjust the brightness of the display face based on ambient light conditions consistent with the terms of this article. Maximum brightness levels for internally-illuminated signs shall not exceed three-tenths foot-candles over ambient light levels measured as prescribed in a "Recommended Night-time Brightness Levels for On-Premise Electronic Message Centers (EMC's)" report published by the International Sign Association as updated August 2016. Certification that the internally illuminated sign has been preset to automatically adjust the brightness to three-tenths foot-candles over ambient light levels or lower shall be provided to the building official and made a part of the sign permit application.
C.
Hazards. Illumination devices shall be placed, filtered and shielded to ensure that light generated by such devices does not create an unsafe condition for motorists, cyclists or pedestrians.
D.
Light pollution. Sign illumination shall not spillover on to adjacent properties or roadways. No internally-illuminated signs shall be allowed within 100 feet of any residential zoning district or property occupied as a residence. Signs in residential zoning districts or neighborhoods shall not be internally illuminated, but may use indirect lighting to achieve adequate visibility.
E.
Underwriters Laboratory listing. All components of an illuminated sign shall be U.L. listed, or the equivalent thereof, with an identification label that identifies the sign manufacturer.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.11. - Billboards.
A.
Billboards. The following standards shall apply to all billboards. Any billboard lawfully in existence on the effective date of this article that does not comply with the standards for billboards adopted herein shall be deemed a legal, nonconforming sign. Such billboards shall be subject to section 98-21.16, nonconforming signs.
1.
Billboards shall only be located on a lot having frontage on S.R. 36, northeast of the downtown historic district and frontage on S.R. 19 from the northern city limits to the northernmost boundary of the downtown historic district. Billboards shall not be erected on any lot having frontage of S.R. 74, or on any lot within the downtown historic district, the Thomaston Gateway West District or the R.E. Lee Institute Historic District. Billboards shall not be located within the geographic area designated on the downtown development authority map.
2.
Billboards shall only be located within 100 feet of the right-of-way of S.R. 19 or S.R. 36, subject to the parameters of subsection 1, above.
3.
A permit issued by the state department of transportation authorizing installation of a proposed billboard shall be submitted simultaneously with the application for a city-issued permit to erect such billboard.
4.
No billboard shall exceed a sign height of 50 feet.
5.
Billboard display faces shall have a maximum height of ten feet and a maximum width of 30 feet. The total display face of a billboard shall not exceed 300 square feet. Any sign having a display face equal to or greater than 200 square feet shall be deemed a billboard.
6.
Billboards shall meet the setback standards of the zoning district assigned to the property proposed for installation of a billboard. This setback shall be measured from the closest point of the billboard frame to the property line, provided the setback from the right-of-way of a state route shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
7.
No billboard shall be erected within 1,000 linear feet of any other billboard on the same side of the highway, including any billboard located outside the city limits, as measured along the right-of-way.
8.
Billboards shall be positioned for viewing from a state route.
9.
A maximum of one billboard may face in the same direction. Back to back or "V" formation signs are allowed; however, stacked or side-by-side billboards shall be prohibited.
10.
All portions of a billboard frame, sign face and support members of any billboard shall be setback from all buildings, structures and property lines a minimum of 75 feet or in compliance with the setbacks for front, side, and rear yards as required for principal buildings in the zoning district in which the billboard is proposed, whichever is greater, provided the setback from the right-of-way of a state route shall be a minimum of 25 feet. Notwithstanding these standards, no billboard shall be erected on a lot on which setbacks from any building, structure or property line equal to or greater than the fall zone of the billboard cannot be achieved. For purposes of this article, fall zone shall be defined as an area equal to 110 percent of the height of the billboard measured in every direction. All distances used to determine the setback or fall zone shall be measured to the nearest point of the billboard.
11.
No billboard may be installed within 500 feet of a residentially zoned or residentially occupied lot.
12.
No billboard shall be located in a public park, public playground, public recreation area, public forest, scenic area, or cemetery or within 500 feet of such properties measured in any direction. A billboard may be located within 500 feet of such a property, provided the billboard is separated by a building(s) or other visual obstruction(s) in such a manner that the billboard is not visible from such properties. Notwithstanding these distance standards, a static billboard may be located within 300 feet of such properties.
13.
No billboard shall be located in an historic zoning district or a national register historic district or within 1,000 feet of the property line of a historic zoning district, a national register historic district or any legally recognized historic site or monument.
14.
Billboards shall not be permitted within any railroad property, right-of-way or easement, provided a billboard located within these areas may be used for railroad purposes.
15.
Distances and sign heights shall be certified on a survey performed by a surveyor licensed in the state. Such survey shall be submitted with the sign permit application.
16.
Billboards shall not be placed on a building wall or on the roof of a building. Billboards shall only be freestanding pole or pylon signs and shall not be allowed as monument signs.
17.
Extrusions prohibited. Extrusions beyond the face of any billboard, excluding aprons, shall be prohibited.
18.
All applications for billboards shall be made in the name of the property owner, only and all permits for billboards shall be issued to the property owner, only.
19.
No variance shall be granted for billboard area or billboard distance separation.
20.
All applicants for a billboard shall file an exemption plat through the city with the county superior court designating the proposed location of the billboard on the property.
21.
The potential impacts of a billboard are significant given the size and height of such structures. It is in the best interest of the city to adopt criteria for assessing such impacts. Accordingly, a billboard shall be subject to approval by mayor and city council who shall be guided by the following factors in determining whether approval of an application for a billboard is appropriate:
a.
Whether the size of the lot is sufficient to allow compliance with all setbacks considering the relationship of the proposed billboard to adjacent lots and development patterns in the area;
b.
The impact the proposed billboard may have on the view of significant features of the landscape as viewed by motorists and adjacent property owners, and the aesthetic impact on surrounding properties;
c.
The effect the proposed billboard may have on traffic safety;
d.
Any accompanying or unique feature of the proposed billboard, including plans for lighting and landscaping; and
e.
Any other factor related to the suitability of the proposed billboard for the proposed site, including any conditions or limitations proposed by the applicant.
f.
Notwithstanding the above criteria, content of a billboard shall not be among the factors considered by mayor and city council in deciding an application to erect a […].
B.
Static billboards. Static billboards are traditional billboards and shall be subject to the following standards:
1.
All billboard sign faces must be stationary and shall not contain any visible moving parts, alternating or moving messages or have the appearance of having moving parts or messages.
2.
Static billboards shall not be located within 300 feet of any residentially zoned or residentially occupied lot; any public park, public playground, public recreation area, scenic area or any cemetery as measured from the outermost edge of the billboard to the closest boundary of such lot.
C.
Multiple message billboards. Multiple message billboards shall be subject to the following standards:
1.
Multiple message billboards shall not be located within 500 feet of any residentially zoned lot; any park, playground, recreation area, scenic area or any cemetery, as measured from the outermost edge of the billboard to the closest boundary of such lot.
2.
No multiple message billboard shall be placed within 5,000 feet of another multiple message billboard, including any multiple message billboards located outside of the city limits, as measured along the public right-of-way on the same side of the highway.
3.
When a message is changed mechanically, the transition shall be accomplished in three seconds or less. Transitions in messages achieved electronically shall be accomplished in one second or less.
4.
Each message on a multiple message billboard shall remain fixed for a minimum of ten seconds.
5.
Multiple message billboards shall contain a default design that will freeze the message as a single image should a malfunction occur.
D.
Digital billboards. As light-emitting diode (LED) billboards, also known as digital billboards, present a unique set of circumstances regarding their impact on the community, such signs shall be governed by the following additional standards. For purposes of this section, "digital billboard" shall mean any LED sign that also meets the definition of a billboard. "State route" shall mean S.R. 19 and S.R. 36.
1.
Digital billboards shall not be located within 1,000 feet of another billboard on the same side of a state route, as measured along the public right-of-way, including billboards located outside the city limits.
2.
Digital billboards shall not be located within 5,000 feet of another multiple message billboard, including any other digital billboard, on the same side of a state route as measured along the public right-of-way. Digital billboards and other multiple message billboards located outside the city limits shall be used in determining this distance.
3.
Digital billboards shall not be located within 500 feet of any residentially zoned lot; or any public park, public playground, public recreation area, scenic area or any cemetery, as measured from the outermost edge of the billboard to the closest boundary of such property. Digital billboards shall be limited to non-residential zoning districts.
4.
All digital billboard images must remain stationary and shall not contain any visible moving parts, alternating, "crawling" or other moving messages or have the appearance of having moving parts or messages.
5.
The display, background or other message medium on any digital billboard shall transition to another display, background or other message medium no more frequently than once every ten seconds, with a transition period of one second or less.
6.
All digital billboards shall contain a default design that will freeze the sign as one image should a malfunction occur.
7.
Any maximum size limitation shall apply to the face of the digital billboard having the greater area.
8.
The owner or permit holder of a digital billboard shall submit certification of the light intensity measured in foot-candles by an independent contractor demonstrating compliance with this section. Such certification shall be submitted to the building official.
9.
All digital billboards shall have installed an ambient light monitor that will continuously monitor and automatically adjust the brightness of the display based on ambient light conditions consistent with the terms of this article. Maximum brightness levels for digital billboards shall not exceed three-tenths foot-candles over ambient light levels measured as prescribed in a "Recommended Night-time Brightness Levels for On-Premise Electronic Message Centers (EMC's)" report published by the International Sign Association as updated August 2016 which is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by attachment. Certification that the digital billboard has been preset to automatically adjust the brightness to three-tenths foot-candles over ambient light levels or lower shall be provided to the building official and made a part of the sign permit application.
10.
All digital billboards shall meet the same installation and permitting requirements and inspections applicable to electronic signs and all other signs.
11.
The owner or permit holder of a digital billboard shall provide to the building official contact information for the individual available at any time and capable of deactivating the electronic sign promptly following a malfunction.
12.
Whenever more than five percent of the LED display lights on a digital billboard malfunction or are otherwise no longer operational, the owner or permit holder of the digital billboard shall repair the sign within five business days following written notice by the building official. In the event such repair(s) are not made within this period, the billboard shall be subject to removal.
13.
Upon a finding by the building official that a digital billboard or any display or effect thereon causes glare or impairs the vision of a motorist, or otherwise interferes with the safe operation of a motor vehicle, and upon written request by the building official, the owner of such billboard shall promptly and within 48 hours reduce the intensity of the illumination of the billboard to a level acceptable to the building official or otherwise remedy the situation.
14.
Every digital billboard shall comply with all state department of transportation rules and regulations applicable to electronic changeable message signs where not in conflict with this section.
15.
Repair or replacement of permitted digital displays shall be allowed without permit provided neither the size, height nor weight of the display is increased.
E.
Additional criteria for multiple message and digital billboards. In addition to the standards and provisions for all billboards, multiple message billboards and digital billboards shall be subject to the following additional standards and provisions:
1.
Location. Multiple message billboards shall not be placed within a 5,000-foot radius of another multiple message billboard or within 500 feet of a residentially zoned or residentially occupied lot.
2.
Mode of transition. Multiple message billboards using electronic or digital transition shall only contain messages changed through either: (i) instantaneous transition, with no visible intermittent elements; (ii) subtle transitions such as fading, dissolving or similar transitions that do not have the appearance of moving text or images; or (iii) scrolling.
3.
Display and transition time. Each message shall remain static for a minimum of ten seconds. The transition for messages that are changed mechanically shall occur within three seconds or less. The transition for messages that are changed electronically or digitally shall occur within one second or less.
4.
Flashing, intermittent and moving lights. Other than as described in subsections 2. and 3. immediately above, flashing, intermittent and/or moving lights shall not be allowed on multiple message billboards.
5.
Freestanding. Multiple message billboards shall only be freestanding, pole or pylon signs.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.12. - Sign standards by zoning district.
Properties in the following zoning districts shall be assigned the sign types and standards contained in this section:
R-1, low density residential district. All sign standards of the R-1 district also apply to the ES estate subdivision—Class one and ES estate subdivision—Class two districts.
R-2, medium density residential district.
R-CT, residential condominium-townhouse district.
M-R, multifamily residential district.
C-1, neighborhood commercial district.
C-2, general commercial district.
DT, downtown district.
P-I, professional-institutional district.
PD, planned development (signs as approved in the development agreement).
M-1 light industrial district. All standards of the M-1 light industrial district also apply to the M-2 heavy industrial district.
Thomaston Gateway North Overlay.
Approach in assigning standards.
As proposed, signs in the residential districts are limited to wall signs and stake signs. Stake signs account for political signs, real estate signs and yard sales signs, among others. Condominium and apartment dwellers are not assigned stake sign rights as the property is held in common and what one household may want to communicate through stake signs, others may not. Single family detached and townhouse properties are allowed stake signs as these lots are individually owned in fee simple.
The neighborhood commercial district is intended as a walkable, pedestrian scale district where signs are shorter, smaller and fewer. Vehicle speeds are low, eliminating the need for large and tall signs. The downtown district shares many characteristics with the neighborhood commercial district, and accordingly, many of the neighborhood commercial district standards apply to the downtown district.
The general commercial district is typical of commercial corridors where single trip purchases and commuting are the pattern. Here, signs are proposed as taller and larger than signs allowed in the neighborhood commercial district as business owners strive to attract customers.
The professional-institutional district is established as a park-like setting with sign rights more closely following those of the neighborhood commercial district and the downtown district, though having less pedestrian traffic than either of those districts. Tasteful signs are sized to communicate locations to visitors and employees in an uncluttered, attractive environment.
The industrial districts may have the greatest opportunity to display signs as many deliveries involve large vehicles with drivers searching for a facility for the first time. Public safety concerns argue in favor of larger, taller signs for this zoning district.
Thomaston Gateway North Overlay is projected to be the welcoming stage for visitors and a source of civic pride for residents. While this is a commercial corridor, sign rights have been devised to achieve sign patterns that feature smaller, shorter and fewer signs than would ordinarily be found in such a corridor. This theme actually characterizes the approach in each of the zoning districts, to create an attractive setting that will distinguish Thomaston from other locales.
A.
R-1 low density single family residential district and R-2 medium density single family residential district. Permitted sign types and standards for signs in the R-1 and R-2 districts shall be as follows; all sign standards of the R-1 low density single family residential district also apply to the ES estate subdivision—Class one and ES estate subdivision—Class two districts.
1.
A maximum of one wall sign shall be allowed on any residential lot owned fee simple.
2.
Entrance signs shall be monument style signs and shall be setback a minimum of ten feet from any public right-of-way; stake signs shall be setback a minimum of five feet from any public right-of-way.
3.
No sign shall be illuminated, either internally or indirectly, in any residential zoning district except that entrance signs in a residential subdivision may be indirectly lit from dusk until dawn.
4.
The only sign types permitted on individual building lots zoned R-1 or R-2 for residential use shall be wall signs and stake signs, provided entrance signs in compliance with this article may be located on common property or in a landscaped median in a residential subdivision.
5.
Non-residential uses in an R-1 or R-2 district shall be subject to the sign standards of the C-1 neighborhood commercial district.
6.
In addition to those signs prohibited in section 98-21.8, prohibited signs, the following signs shall be prohibited in R-1 and R-2 districts:
a.
Projecting signs.
b.
Window signs.
c.
Wall signs greater than two square feet in area.
d.
Awning signs.
e.
LED signs.
f.
Monument signs, except approved entrance signs.
g.
Pole signs.
h.
Pylon signs.
EXPAND
Table 1.
R-1 Low Density Residential District and R-2 Medium Density Residential District
Ground sign Wall sign Entrance sign 1 Stake sign
Maximum height n/a n/a 8 feet 4 feet
Maximum width n/a 2 feet 8 feet 3 feet
Maximum area n/a 2 square feet 32 square feet 6 square feet
Maximum number 0 1 1/entrance;
max of 2/
road frontage 3
Setback from right-of-way n/a n/a 10 feet 5 feet
1  Applicable to residential subdivisions, only and not to individual, single family lots.
  B.
R-CT residential condominium-townhouse district and M-R multifamily residential district. Permitted sign types and standards for signs in the C-TH and M-R districts shall be as follows:
1.
A maximum of one wall sign shall be allowed on any dwelling.
2.
Entrance signs shall be monument style signs and shall be setback a minimum of ten feet from any public right-of-way; stake signs shall be setback a minimum of five feet from any public right-of-way.
3.
No sign shall be illuminated, either internally or indirectly, in any residential zoning district except that entrance signs may be indirectly lit from dusk until dawn.
4.
The only sign types permitted on lots zoned R-CT or M-R for residential use are wall signs, provided entrance signs in compliance with this article may be located on common property or in a landscaped median in a residential development. Stake signs shall be permitted on individual TH lots; however, stake signs shall not be permitted on condominium developments as all land in such developments is "held in common ownership." Similarly, stake signs shall not be allowed in apartment developments as no dwelling is situated on an individual lot.
5.
Non-residential uses in an R-CT or M-R district shall be subject to the standards of the C-1 neighborhood commercial district.
6.
In addition to those signs prohibited in section 98-200. Prohibited signs, the following signs shall be prohibited in the R-CT and M-R districts:
a.
Projecting signs.
b.
Window signs.
c.
Wall signs greater than two square feet in area.
d.
Awning signs.
e.
LED signs.
f.
Monument signs, except approved entrance signs.
g.
Pole signs.
h.
Pylon signs.
EXPAND
Table 2.
R-CT Residential Condominium-Townhouse District and M-R Multifamily
Residential District
Ground sign Wall sign Entrance sign Stake sign 2
Maximum height n/a n/a 8 feet 4 feet
Maximum width n/a 2 feet 8 feet 3 feet
Maximum area n/a 2 square feet 32 square feet 6 square feet
Maximum number 0 1/dwelling unit 1/entrance;
max of 2/
road frontage 3
Setback from right-of-way n/a n/a 10 feet 5 feet
2  Stake signs shall only be allowed in townhouse developments as only these lots and R-1 and R-2 lots are held in fee simple ownership.
  C.
C-1 neighborhood commercial district. Permitted sign types and standards for signs in the NC district shall be as follows:
1.
Ground signs.
2.
Wall signs.
3.
Window signs.
4.
Projecting signs, provided no such sign shall extend more than six feet from the building face.
5.
Awning signs.
6.
Entrance signs, provided all such signs shall be monument style signs.
7.
Temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
8.
Canopy signs.
9.
A-frame signs, subject to a maximum height of three feet and a maximum area of six square feet. A-frame or "sidewalk" signs shall be placed within ten feet of the primary entrance to the building on the lot displaying the sign and a minimum of 20 feet from any other such sign, including signs on adjacent properties.
EXPAND
Table 3. C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
Ground sign Wall
sign Window sign Projecting sign Awning sign Entrance sign Temporary sign 3 Canopy sign
Maximum height 12 feet n/a n/a n/a n/a 6 feet 8 feet n/a
Maximum width 8 feet 50% of the facade on which the sign is installed n/a 4 feet 50% of awning face 8 feet 8 feet 25% of canopy width
Maximum area 24 square feet A total of 10% of the area of the facade on which the sign(s) is installed 30% of window area 16 square feet 16 square feet 24 square feet 24 square feet 0.5 sf/linear foot of canopy
Maximum number 1/100 feet of street frontage 1/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 2/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 1/tenant space on primary facade, with a minimum 20-foot separation from all such signs 1/awning or a maximum of 2/tenant space on primary facade 1/entrance; max of 2/road frontage 1/50 feet of frontage 1 per canopy face, maximum of 3
Setback from right-of-way 6 feet n/a n/a 1 foot n/a 10 feet 6 feet n/a
3  Banners are addressed in subsection 98-21.9.1, temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
  D.
C-2 general commercial district. Permitted sign types and standards for signs in the C-2 district shall be as follows:
1.
Ground signs.
2.
Wall signs.
3.
Window signs.
4.
Projecting signs, provided no such sign shall extend more than six feet from the building face.
5.
Awning signs.
6.
Entrance signs, provided all such signs shall be monument style signs.
7.
Temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs. (A-frame signs are not contemplated in this auto-dependent district).
8.
Canopy signs.
EXPAND
Table 4. C-2 General Commercial District
Ground sign Wall
sign Window sign Projecting sign Awning sign Entrance sign Temporary sign 4 Canopy sign
Maximum height 35 feet n/a n/a n/a n/a 8 feet 8 feet n/a
Maximum width 8 feet 50% of facade on which the sign is installed n/a 4 feet 50% of awning face 8 feet 8 feet 50% of canopy width
Maximum area 48 square feet A total of 10% of the area of the facade on which the sign(s) is installed 30% of window area 24 square feet 50% of awning face 32 square feet 48 square feet 1 sf/1 linear foot of canopy
Maximum number 1/200 feet of street frontage 1/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 2/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 1/tenant space on primary facade, with a minimum 20-foot separation from all such signs 1/awning or a maximum of 2/tenant space on primary facade 1/entrance; maximum of 2/road frontage 1/100 feet of frontage 1 per canopy face, maximum of 3
Setback from right-of-way 6 feet n/a n/a 1 foot n/a 10 feet 6 feet n/a
4  Banners are addressed in subsection 98-21.9.1, temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
  E.
DT downtown district. Permitted sign types and standards for signs in the DT downtown district shall be as follows:
1.
Ground signs, provided all such signs shall be monument style signs.
2.
Wall signs.
3.
Window signs.
4.
Projecting signs, provided no such sign shall extend more than six feet from the building face.
5.
Awning signs.
6.
Entrance signs, provided all such signs shall be monument style signs.
7.
Temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
8.
Canopy signs.
9.
A-frame signs, subject to a maximum height of three and a maximum area of six square feet. A-frame or "sidewalk" signs shall be placed within ten feet of the primary entrance to the building on the lot displaying the sign and a minimum of 20 feet from any other such sign, including signs on adjacent properties.
EXPAND
Table 5. DT Downtown District
Ground sign Wall
sign Window sign Projecting sign Awning sign Entrance sign Temporary sign 5 Canopy sign
Maximum height 6 feet n/a n/a n/a n/a 8 feet 6 feet n/a
Maximum width 8 feet 50% of the facade on which the sign is installed n/a 6 feet 50% of awning face 8 feet 8 feet 25% of canopy width
Maximum area 24 square feet 10% of the area of the facade on which the sign is installed 30% of window area 16 square feet 16 square feet 24 square feet 32 square feet 0.5 sf/linear foot of canopy
Maximum number 1/100 feet of street frontage 1/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 2/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 1/tenant space on primary facade, with a minimum 20-foot separation from all such signs 1/awning or a maximum of 2/tenant space on primary facade 1/entrance; max of 2/road frontage 1/50 feet of frontage 1 per canopy face, maximum of 3
Setback from right-of-way 4 feet n/a n/a 1 foot n/a 4 feet 4 feet n/a
5  Banners are addressed in subsection 98-21.9.1, temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
  F.
P-I professional-institutional district. Permitted sign types and standards for signs in the P-I district shall be as follows:
1.
Ground signs.
2.
Wall signs.
3.
Window signs.
4.
Projecting signs, provided no such sign shall extend more than six feet from the building face.
5.
Awning signs.
6.
Entrance signs, provided all such signs shall be monument style signs.
7.
Temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
8.
Canopy signs.
EXPAND
Table 6. P-I Professional-Institutional District
Ground sign Wall
sign Window sign Projecting sign Awning sign Entrance sign Temporary sign 6 Canopy sign
Maximum height 16 feet n/a n/a n/a n/a 8 feet 6 feet n/a
Maximum width 8 feet 50% of facade on which the sign is installed n/a 8 feet 50% of awning face 8 feet 8 feet 25% of canopy width
Maximum area 32 square feet 10% of the area of the facade on which the sign is installed 30% of window area 16 square feet 16 square feet 32 square feet 32 square feet 1 sf/linear foot of canopy
Maximum number 1/200 feet of street frontage 1/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 2/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 1/tenant space on primary facade, with a minimum 20-foot separation from all such signs 1/awning or a maximum of 2/tenant space on primary facade 1/entrance not to exceed 2/road frontage 1/100 feet of frontage 1 per canopy face, maximum 3
Setback from right-of-way 6 feet n/a n/a 1 foot n/a 6 feet 4 feet n/a
6  Banners are addressed in subsection 98-21.9.1, temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
  G.
PD planned development district. Permitted sign types and standards for signs in the PD district shall be as approved in the planned development agreement.
H.
M-1 light industrial district and M-2 heavy industrial district. Permitted sign types and standards for signs in the M-1 light industrial district and the M-2 heavy industrial district shall be as follows:
1.
Ground signs.
2.
Wall signs.
3.
Window signs.
4.
Projecting signs, provided no such sign shall extend more than six feet from the building face.
5.
Awning signs.
6.
Entrance signs, provided all such signs shall be monument style signs.
7.
Temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
8.
Canopy signs.
EXPAND
Table 7. M-1 Light Industrial District and M-2 Heavy Industrial District
Ground sign Wall
sign Window sign Projecting sign Awning sign Entrance sign Temporary sign 7 Canopy sign
Maximum height 20 feet n/a n/a n/a n/a 8 feet 8 feet n/a
Maximum width 12 feet 50% of the facade on which the sign is installed n/a 8 feet 50% of awning face 12 feet 8 feet 25% of canopy width
Maximum area 72 square feet 10% of the area of the facade on which the sign is installed 30% of window area 20 square feet 16 square feet 60 square feet 32 square feet 1 sf/linear foot of canopy
Maximum number 1/200 feet of street frontage 1/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 2/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 1/tenant space on primary facade, with a minimum 40-foot separation from all such signs 1/awning or a maximum of 2/tenant space on primary facade 1/entrance; max of 2/road frontage 1/100 feet of frontage 1 per canopy face, maximum of 3
Setback from right-of-way 6 feet n/a n/a 4 feet n/a 4 feet 4 feet n/a
7  Banners are addressed in subsection 98-21.9.1, temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
  I.
Thomaston Gateway North Overlay. Permitted sign types and standards for signs in Thomaston Gateway North Overlay shall be as follows:
1.
Ground signs.
2.
Wall signs.
3.
Window signs.
4.
Projecting signs, provided no such sign shall extend more than six feet from the building face.
5.
Awning signs.
6.
Entrance signs, provided all such signs shall be monument style signs.
7.
Temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
8.
Canopy signs.
EXPAND
Table 8. Thomaston Gateway North Overlay
Ground sign Wall
sign Window sign Projecting sign Awning sign Entrance sign Temporary sign 8 Canopy sign
Maximum height Pole & pylon: 20 feet
Billboards: 35 feet n/a n/a n/a n/a 8 feet 6 feet n/a
Maximum width 8 feet 50% of facade on which the sign is installed n/a 4 feet 50% of awning 8 feet 8 feet 25% of canopy width
Maximum area 32 square feet 10% of the area of the facade on which the sign is installed 30% of window 16 square feet 16 square feet 32 square feet 16 square feet 1 sf/linear foot of canopy
Maximum number 1/200 feet of street frontage 1/tenant space on primary facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 2/tenant space on primary Facade; 1/tenant space on secondary facade 1/tenant space on primary facade, with a minimum 20-foot separation from all such signs 1/awning or a maximum of 2/tenant space on primary facade 1/entrance not to exceed 2/road frontage 1/50 feet of frontage 1 per canopy face, maximum of 3
Setback from right-of-way 6 feet n/a n/a Minimum setback from row of 4 feet n/a 6 feet 6 feet n/a
8  Banners are addressed in subsection 98-21.9.1, temporary signs. Temporary signs do not include stake signs.
  (Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.13. - Sign standards by sign type.
The following sign types are subject to the standards assigned in this section. These standards shall be in addition to those set forth in other sections of this article that may vary by the zoning district in which the sign is displayed.
A.
A-frame signs, including sandwich boards and sidewalk signs.
1.
Such signs shall be professionally fabricated and shall have a maximum sign face of two feet by three feet and a maximum height of three feet.
2.
Only tenant spaces having ground floor street frontage may display one A-frame sign.
3.
A-frame signs shall be placed within a maximum of ten feet of the entrance to the business, building or premises owned, leased or otherwise occupied by the sign owner.
4.
No A-frame sign shall be placed within 20 feet of another such sign on the property or on adjacent property, and such signs shall be located a minimum of ten feet from any side property line.
5.
A-frame signs as may be allowed must be positioned on a public sidewalk, provided a clear path having a minimum width of five feet is maintained and unimpeded pedestrian movement is assured. Positioning of all A-frame signs shall comply with Americans with Disability Act standards.
6.
A-frame signs shall not be mounted or otherwise placed on any object to increase the height of the sign.
7.
A-frame signs shall not be illuminated, animated or electrically powered in any manner. Signs must be made of durable materials designed to withstand outdoor conditions.
8.
A-frame signs shall only be displayed during operating hours and must be removed at all other times.
9.
Placement of A-frame signs shall also be subject to any prohibition by the state department of transportation or other applicable state law.
B.
Awning signs.
1.
Awning signs must be painted or otherwise installed directly on the awning.
2.
No awning sign shall be internally lit.
3.
The sign area of any awning sign shall not exceed 50 percent of the surface area of the awning.
4.
Awning signs shall not extend above the parapet wall and shall maintain a clear height of eight feet above the adjacent grade.
5.
One sign attached to the underside of an awning shall be permitted at the principal entrance to the building.
C.
Banners.
1.
Each owner shall be permitted one banner sign for each public road frontage; provide that each tenant of a multi-tenant building may display one banner on the respective tenant facade.
2.
All banners shall be affixed to the building and mounted flush with the wall.
3.
Banners shall not exceed 32 square feet.
4.
Banners may be displayed twice annually for a period of 30 consecutive days.
D.
Canopy signs.
1.
Canopy signs shall be limited to a maximum width of 25 percent of the width of the individual canopy face, with a maximum canopy sign area of 20 percent of the square footage of the individual canopy face.
2.
A canopy sign may be displayed on a maximum of three canopy faces.
E.
Changeable copy signs, or LED signs, excluding billboards.
1.
The following standards shall apply to all LED signs, excluding digital billboards; any LED sign that does not comply with these standards shall be deemed nonconforming.
a.
LED signs shall only be permitted on signs regulated under O.C.G.A. § 10-1-164 and located on a lot having frontage on S.R. 36, northeast of the downtown historic district, only; and frontage on S.R. 19 from the northern city limits to the northernmost boundary of the downtown historic district. LED signs shall not be displayed along S.R. 74, within the downtown historic district, the Thomaston Gateway North District or the R.E. Lee Institute Historic District. No changeable copy sign or LED sign shall be erected within the geographic area defined on the downtown development authority map.
b.
No LED sign shall be located within 150 feet of any single family dwelling or any property zoned for single family residential use.
c.
LED lights on signs shall remain, and appear to be, fixed and static. In no instance shall LED lights on signs be, or appear to be, moving, changing in intensity, flashing or animated in any way. Notwithstanding these restrictions, LED signs permitted under this section may include a changeable message or copy provided the sign display does not meet the definition of "flashing sign."
d.
Maximum brightness levels for changeable copy or LED signs shall not exceed three-tenths foot-candles over ambient light levels measured as prescribed in a "Recommended Night-time Brightness Levels for On-Premise Electronic Message Centers (EMC's)" Recommendations for On-Premise Electronic Message Centers Updated August 2016 and published by the International Sign Association, Night-time Brightness Level which is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by attachment. Certification that the LED sign has been preset to automatically adjust the brightness to three-tenths foot-candles over ambient light levels or lower shall be provided to the building official.
e.
The owner of changeable copy and LED signs shall submit certification of the light intensity measured in foot-candles by an independent contractor showing compliance with this section and provide such certification to the building official.
f.
All LED signs shall have an ambient light monitor that will continuously monitor and automatically adjust the brightness of the display to three-tenths foot-candles over ambient light levels or lower based on ambient light conditions.
g.
LED signs shall be equipped with an automatic night dimming device that shall lower the intensity of illumination of the sign at night to comply with the maximum brightness levels of this subsection.
h.
LED signs permitted in this section shall not interfere with or impede the view of any pedestrian, cyclist or motorist.
F.
Drive-through signs.
1.
Drive-through signs shall only be allowed on a lot operating a drive-in or drive-through business.
2.
Drive-through signs shall not exceed two per business on the lot, and shall not exceed an area of 32 square feet and a height of eight feet.
3.
All external and indirect lighting shall be cast downward.
4.
Drive-through signs shall be single-sided and shall not be located within a front yard forward of the front building elevation.
5.
Drive-through signs shall be prohibited in the downtown historic district.
G.
Entrance signs.
1.
All entrance signs shall be placed on private property and shall not be placed in a public right-of-way.
2.
Notwithstanding the prohibition of subsection G.1., an entrance sign may be placed in a center median of the right-of-way that provides street access to the subdivision, provided the following conditions are met:
a.
The location has been approved in writing by city council and the state department of transportation, as applicable; and
b.
The applicant has filed a written agreement with the city committing the owners of the development to assume responsibility for maintenance and repair of the entrance sign and any associated landscaping. Such agreement shall be subject to approval by the city attorney and shall be recorded with the final plat for the development.
H.
Flags. The owner of a building or building tenants may display flags complying with the following standards.
1.
Three types of flag displays shall be allowed: "pole, projecting and window."
a.
Pole flags. A flag may be flown from a metal pole permanently placed in the ground. The length of a pole flag shall be no greater than one-quarter of the height of the pole. This standard shall apply to flagpoles 20 feet and taller.
i.
Pole flags displayed on single family residential properties shall not exceed three feet from top to bottom and five feet in length. Flagpoles on single family residential properties shall not exceed 20 feet in height.
ii.
Flags on small commercial, industrial, institutional, multifamily and public properties, defined as properties of less than two acres in area or having buildings with less than 10,000 square feet of floor area shall not exceed four feet from top to bottom and six feet in length. Flagpoles on such properties shall not exceed 24 feet in height and two and five-eighths inches in diameter.
iii.
Flags on all other commercial, industrial, institutional and public properties shall not exceed six feet from top to bottom and ten feet in length and flagpoles on these properties shall not exceed 40 feet in height. The flagpole may be of varying diameters, appropriate in scale to the length of the flag being displayed.
b.
Projecting flags. Flags may be flown from a metal or wooden pole attached to a bracket projecting from the side of a building or doorframe. The pole shall not exceed six feet in length, or one inch in diameter. The flag flying from such pole shall not exceed three feet from top to bottom and five feet in length. Additionally, flags displayed in such a manner shall not impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic. No projecting flag shall be displayed above the lowest portion of a building roof.
c.
Window flags. Flags may be hung in the window of any non-residential property. The area of the flag shall be used in the calculation of window sign area.
2.
Limit on number. A maximum of three flags in any combination of pole, projecting or window flags subject to the standards of this section shall be exempt from the permitting requirements of this article.
3.
Condition of flags. All flags displayed shall be in serviceable condition and fit for use. All flags and stitching shall remain intact. Tattered or faded flags shall be removed.
4.
Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Code, this section shall not be interpreted as prohibiting or restricting the right to display eligible flags permitted under this section as non-commercial signs.
I.
LED strip lighting. Maximum brightness levels for LED strip lighting shall not exceed three-tenths foot-candles over ambient light levels measured as prescribed in a "Recommended Night-time Brightness Levels for On-Premise Electronic Message Centers (EMC's)" report published by the International Sign Association, August 2016 which is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by attachment. Certification that the LED sign has been preset to automatically adjust the brightness to three-tenths foot-candles over ambient light levels or lower shall be provided to the building official. Such lighting shall not flash, scroll, run or feature changes in color or lighting intensity.
J.
Monument signs.
1.
Monument signs shall not exceed a height of eight feet.
2.
The supporting structure of a monument sign shall be at a minimum as wide as the sign face and shall be fabricated of metal, brick, stone, or other architectural masonry material. All concrete masonry units shall be parged with concrete.
3.
All monument signs shall have foundation landscaping extending a minimum of six feet from any point along the sign base.
K.
Pole signs.
1.
The maximum height of a pole sign shall be 20 feet, provided the maximum height in the Thomaston Gateway North District shall be 24 feet.
2.
A landscaped area having a minimum dimension of six feet as measured from any support structure and comprised of shrubs and ground covers other than turf shall be provided around the entire base of a pole sign.
L.
Projecting signs.
1.
No projecting sign shall be placed over a street, alley or way accessed by motorized vehicles.
2.
All projecting signs shall be installed at a 90-degree angle to the building face on which such signs are mounted.
3.
Projecting signs shall accommodate a minimum vertical clearance above sidewalks of eight feet and shall project no more than six feet from the building face on which they are mounted.
4.
Projecting signs shall be set back from the top of the building wall and building edge a minimum distance of two feet. Projecting signs on a building on a corner lot may be mounted on the corner of such building.
5.
No projecting sign shall be installed within 20 feet of another projecting sign, including projecting signs on adjacent property.
M.
Pylon signs. Pylon signs shall be subject to the standards assigned to pole signs.
N.
Stake signs.
1.
Stake signs shall have a maximum height of four feet and a maximum area of six square feet.
2.
No lot developed in multifamily use shall display more than one stake sign for each 100 linear feet of road frontage with the exception of signs otherwise regulated by this article.
O.
Temporary signs.
1.
A permit shall be required for all temporary signs unless otherwise exempted by section 98-21.4, exemptions.
2.
Temporary signs shall be removed from the premises within 30 calendar days from the date the sign is first placed on the lot with the following exceptions:
a.
Temporary signs of professional quality placed on a lot by the property owner, or at the request of the property owner.
b.
Temporary signs erected during an election period, provided such signs shall be removed one day following the conclusion of the election period.
3.
No individual lot developed in non-residential use shall have more than two temporary signs having a maximum area of 32 square feet.
4.
The owner of any lot shall not be granted more than two temporary sign permits in a single calendar year.
5.
Temporary signs may be located on private property, subject to the restrictions of this article. However, temporary signs shall not be placed in any public right-of way.
6.
One temporary sign may be allowed on each street frontage of a non-residential lot during construction or renovation for which appropriate permits have been issued. Such signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area or six feet in height and shall be allowed beginning with commencement of vertical construction and ending with issuance of a certificate of occupancy or installation of a permanent sign, whichever comes first.
7.
With the exception of stake signs, all temporary signs shall be securely installed, and shall meet all applicable safety standards as prescribed by the building code, electrical code or as promulgated by the building official and approved by city council.
8.
The building official may give written notice of a violation to the owner or occupant of any lot on which a temporary sign is erected or maintained in violation of this article or any other ordinance or law of the city. Such sign shall be removed within three business days of receipt of such notice. In the event the sign is not thereafter removed, the city may cause the removal of such sign and may impose the cost of removal as a lien on the lot on which the sign is located.
P.
Wall signs.
1.
Wall signs shall be securely fastened to the building surface.
2.
No wall sign shall wholly or partially cover any wall opening.
3.
Wall signs shall not be mounted within two feet of the top of a building wall, a building edge or building corner or within two feet of the storefront wall of any adjacent tenant space.
4.
No wall sign shall project outward from the building facade more than six inches.
Q.
Window signs.
1.
Window signs shall not exceed 30 percent of the building or tenant space window area.
2.
One neon or other type of illuminated sign having a maximum area of three square feet may be displayed in a window.
3.
Customer merchandise signs located inside a building and incidentally visible from a public right-of-way shall not be used in calculating window sign area.
R.
Vehicle signs.
1.
Vehicle signs shall contain no flashing or moving elements.
2.
Vehicle signs shall not be attached to a vehicle in any manner that obstructs the view of the driver from any angle.
3.
Signs, lights and signals used by authorized emergency vehicles shall be exempt from these standards.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.14. - Application process and permits.
This section describes the sign permit application process, information comprising a complete application, verification of permit issuance and compliance inspection, denial and revocation of a permit, expiration of a sign permit and protection of non-commercial speech.
98-21.14.1. Sign permit required.
A.
No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, relocate, improve or convert any sign in the city, or cause such action, without first obtaining a separate permit for each sign from the building official. Any person commencing work on a sign before securing the necessary permit(s) from the building official shall be cited to appear in municipal court and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine equal to double the permit fees, plus court costs.
B.
Issuance of a sign permit shall be deemed a license to proceed with work and shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel, alter or set aside any provisions of this article, this Code or state law. Issuance of a permit shall not prevent the building official from requiring the correction of errors in plans, fabrication or installation of a sign or the correction of violations of this article.
C.
No sign or sign structure shall be erected without a permit unless such sign is exempted from permitting requirements pursuant to section 98-21.4, exemptions, and no sign shall be erected that is prohibited pursuant to this article. Any permit for a sign that has not been erected within six months of being issued shall become null and void. An applicant may apply for an extension of such permit for up to six additional months upon good cause shown. No permit shall be denied or revoked, except for due cause. For purposes of this article, "due cause" shall be a violation of any of the provisions of this article, state or federal law related to signs, submittal of an incomplete application or an application containing materially false statements or omissions.
D.
All applications for sign permits shall be in the name of, and issued only to, the owner or tenant of the property on which the sign is to be located, or the authorized agent of such owner or tenant, except for billboard permits, which shall be in the name of, and issued only to, the owner of such property. Permits shall authorize installation of a sign for the person or entity to which the permit was issued, only. Any change in ownership, or tenancy, as applicable, shall require a new permit.
E.
Written notice of any change of ownership of a sign shall be filed with the building official within 15 calendar days of such change.
F.
Repair or other work proposed to a nonconforming sign shall be subject to section 98-21.16, nonconforming signs.
98-21.14.2. Permit application process. Sign permit applications shall be submitted to the city clerk.
A.
The building official shall evaluate all sign permit applications for completeness. Upon his or her determination that an application is complete, the building official shall stamp each application with a submittal date and notify the applicant of acceptance of the application. The applicant shall then pay the appropriate permit fee to the city clerk. No fee shall be accepted in conjunction with an incomplete application. Incomplete applications shall be rejected and a new application must be submitted with all required information and assigned a new submittal date.
B.
The building official shall review the application for compliance with all applicable standards of this article. Applications meeting the applicable standards of this article, the building code, and all other applicable laws, regulations and ordinances of the city shall be approved within 30 calendar days of the submittal date. The building official shall notify the applicant of a denial of a sign application in writing within ten business days of the submittal date. Such notice shall state the reason(s) for denial. Notice is defined in section 98-21.3, definitions.
C.
In the event the building official fails to render a decision concerning a sign application prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days following the submittal date, the application shall be deemed approved; provided such approval shall not authorize the violation of any standards of this article or other city ordinances. No person erecting a sign under this provision shall acquire any vested rights to continued maintenance and use of any sign. Should the building official subsequently deny the application, the sign shall be brought into compliance with this article or shall be removed within 30 calendar days.
98-21.14.3. Sign permit application; contents.
A.
The owner of the property, or his or her agent, shall file a signed, original and two copies or an electronic copy of an application for a sign permit with the building official. Applications are available on the city's website or at the office of the city clerk. Sign applications shall contain the following information:
1.
Name, address, phone number and email address of the owner(s) of the real property on which the sign or signs are to be located; name, address, phone number and email address of the applicant if different from the owner.
2.
Street address and parcel identification number of the property on which the sign is to be located and the type of sign or signs to be erected.
3.
Written consent of the owner of the property on which the sign is proposed, or his or her agent, granting permission for placement and maintenance of the sign or signs.
4.
Contact information for the company responsible for the design, fabrication and installation of the sign, including name, address, phone number and email address. A copy of a valid occupational tax certificate (business license) of the person, firm, corporation or association installing the sign shall also be submitted.
5.
Name, address and phone number of a contact person who shall be available at all times.
6.
Proof of commercial general liability insurance or bond as required by the Thomaston building and electrical codes, as appropriate.
7.
Engineering drawings of the sign structure signed and sealed by a professional engineer licensed and registered in the state. Applicants for any sign greater than 48 square feet shall submit scaled drawings depicting the method of construction and attachment to the building or installation in the ground. Applications for ground signs having an area greater than 48 square feet, or a height greater than 20 feet, shall include a copy of working stresses and calculations demonstrating that the structure has been designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in compliance with the International Building Code. Stress analyses shall be certified by a registered professional engineer. All submittals shall be in electronic format as well as hard copy.
8.
Total cost of the sign, including installation.
9.
A survey or scaled site plan indicating the proposed location of the sign on the property with setbacks from any property line indicated, lot frontage along any street, footprint of all buildings on the property and the size of the property in square feet if less than one acre and in acres if equal to or greater than one acre.
10.
Sign characteristics, including square footage of the proposed sign face(s), height of the proposed sign from the adjacent grade and the centerline of the adjacent street at the proposed location of the sign, an inventory of all signs on the property indicating the size of each display face. Building elevations with all dimensions shown shall be provided when wall signs are proposed; window and door dimensions shall be provided when window signs are proposed.
11.
Distance from the proposed sign to the nearest sign on the property and signs on all adjacent properties.
12.
Documentation indicating that all other permits required for construction and installation of the sign(s) have been obtained.
13.
Any additional information deemed necessary by the building official to determine compliance with the standards of this article.
B.
Plans submitted with the sign application must conform to the following codes:
1.
Plans required for issuance of a sign permit shall be certified as to conformance with all structural and wind load-resistant standards of the building code by a qualified structural engineer, or shall be prepared using standard drawings prepared by a structural engineer or other qualified professional meeting or exceeding all requirements of the building code, as applicable.
2.
All signs involving internal lights or other electrical devices or circuits shall display a label certifying approval by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
3.
All electrical service to a sign shall comply with the electrical code. A licensed electrical contractor must obtain an electrical permit prior to performing any work and shall install the sign(s) to code.
4.
Clearance from all electrical power lines shall be in conformance with the requirements of the electrical code.
98-21.14.4. Maintenance of permit; compliance inspection; notice.
A.
Decal to be placed on sign. The owner of any sign shall be responsible for retaining the permit for every sign fabricated, installed or maintained for which a permit is required by this article. The permit shall contain the permit number, date of installation of the sign, and the voltage of any electrical apparatus installed on the sign. Such permit shall be kept on the premises on which the sign is located and shall be presented promptly upon request by the building official. In addition to such records, the building official shall issue a decal bearing the number of the permit that the permit holder or his or her agent shall affix to the lower right hand corner of the sign. The absence of a decal evidencing approval of the sign shall be prima facie evidence that the sign has been, or is being, erected or maintained in violation of the standards of this article.
B.
Sign inspections. The building official shall perform field inspections to determine that all signs being altered, erected, replaced, reconstructed, expanded, relocated or used comply with the standards of this article and the conditions of issuance of the permit.
C.
Compliance inspection. The sign owner shall be responsible for contacting the building official to arrange for an inspection of the sign within the six months following the date of permit issuance. In the event the sign(s) for which a permit has been issued have not been completely installed and an inspection performed certifying compliance of the sign with this article and the conditions of the permit within six months of the date of permit issuance, such sign permit shall become null and void. The inspection shall be conducted by the building official pursuant to the provisions of this article, the standard building code, as amended and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
D.
Notice. The building official shall rely on the contact information provided in the sign application for purposes of notifying the owner.
98-21.14.5. Permit revocation.
A.
Violation of any provision of this article shall be grounds for revoking a sign permit and removal of the sign. Should it be determined that a sign permit was issued pursuant to an application containing a materially false statement or omission, or that a permit has been erroneously issued in violation of this article, the building official shall revoke the permit. Written notice of the reasons for such revocation shall be provided to the applicant on or before 30 calendar days of the submittal date. No permit shall be revoked except for due cause. For purposes of this article, "due cause" shall be a violation of any of the provisions of this article, state or federal law related to signs, submittal of an incomplete application or an application containing materially false statements or omissions.
B.
A sign owner whose permit has been revoked may appeal the decision of the building official to the city board of zoning appeals upon filing of written notice of an appeal with the building official within ten business days of the decision.
98-21.14.6. Permit expiration. Every sign permit shall become invalid in the event the sign for which the permit was issued has not been installed in accordance with the permit application within six months of the date of issuance. No refunds shall be given for permit fees paid for permits that have expired due to failure to install a permitted sign. A new application must be submitted and another fee paid in accordance with the fee schedule applicable at such time.
98-21.14.7. Occupational tax permits and insurance for sign contractors. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any sign regulated by this article within the city limits unless such person has obtained an occupational tax permit issued in the state and a certificate of insurance from an insurance company authorized to do business in the state. Such certificate shall document that the person has in effect commercial liability insurance or bond liability and property damage insurance coverage in a minimum amount of $1,000,000.00 per occurrence and commercial liability insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000.00 for injuries, including accidental death, to one person. The certificate of insurance shall also state that the insurance carrier shall notify the city 30 calendar days in advance of any termination or restriction of coverage, including nonrenewal, or policy cancellation.
98-21.14.8. Substitution of non-commercial speech. The owner of any sign that is otherwise allowed by this article may substitute non-commercial speech in lieu of any commercial speech or other non-commercial speech. This substitution of copy may be made without any additional approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent any inadvertent preference assigned to commercial speech over non-commercial speech, or favoring of any particular non-commercial speech over any other non-commercial speech. This provision shall prevail over any more specific provision in this article to the contrary.
98-21.14.9. Sign permit fees. A fee shall be paid to the city upon submittal of a complete application as provided in this article. No sign permit shall be issued until the sign application has been approved by the building official and the appropriate fees have been paid. Applicable sign permit fees shall be as adopted by resolution of mayor and city council and maintained by the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.15. - Appeals.
A.
A denial of an application for a sign permit or revocation of a sign permit by the building official may be appealed to the board of zoning appeals (BZA) as provided in subsection 98-13.2.3.
B.
Upon denial of a sign permit application or revocation of a sign permit, the applicant or owner shall be given written notice by the building official rendering a decision concerning the sign permit, stating the reason for the denial or revocation. Upon written notice of a denial of a sign permit application or revocation of a permit, an applicant or owner wishing to challenge the decision of the building official must file an application for an appeal, including payment of the application fee, with the city clerk according to the following timeframes:
1.
An appeal of a decision by the building official to deny a sign permit application or to revoke a sign permit shall be filed with the city clerk within ten business days of receipt of written notice of such denial or revocation. In the event that no appeal is filed within the ten-day period, the decision of the building official shall become final.
2.
The BZA shall hold a public hearing on any such appeal no more than 60 calendar days from the filing of an appeal with the city clerk and shall render a final decision on the appeal no more than 30 calendar days following the close of the public hearing.
3.
Signs under construction that are the subject of an appeal shall be concealed by a blank cover, sheet or other means pending a decision of the board.
C.
Procedures for public notices shall be as proscribed in section 98-14.4, public notice of public hearings, of the zoning ordinance. Public hearing procedures shall comply with the procedures found in section 98-14.5, public hearing procedures.
D.
An appeal of any decision of the board of zoning appeals under this section shall be decided by city council at a properly noticed public hearing.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.16. - Nonconforming signs.
A nonconforming sign is a sign that was lawfully erected and maintained prior to adoption or amendment of this article and which by reason of such adoption or amendment no longer conforms to one or more applicable standards of this article, as adopted or amended. Signs that were lawful and for which a permit was issued at the time of installation that were subsequently rendered nonconforming due to an amendment of this article are deemed "legal, nonconforming signs." Signs that were unlawful and installed without the proper permits shall be deemed "illegal, nonconforming signs." Each classification is addressed below:
A.
Legal, nonconforming signs. Sign standards adopted in this article are intended to minimize clutter, preserve property values and protect public health, safety and welfare as well as to achieve the purposes set forth in section 98-21.1, purpose and findings. Any sign that existed and was lawfully permitted and installed prior to the effective date of this article may remain even though such sign does not conform to the standards of this article, provided none of the following circumstances occur. In that event, the owner of a nonconforming sign shall immediately forfeit the legal, nonconforming status and the sign shall become an illegal sign.
1.
The nonconforming sign is replaced with another nonconforming sign;
2.
The sign is enlarged, extended, re-constructed, moved to another location on the lot, or structurally altered except to bring the sign into compliance with all standards of this article;
3.
Any part of the sign structure is replaced, other than the display face of the sign;
4.
The sign is altered in any way that increases the degree of nonconformity;
5.
The sign is placed within a sight triangle;
6.
Deterioration of the sign by any cause such that a hazard to public safety is created; or
7.
Deterioration of the sign that constitutes more than 25 percent of the value of the sign as determined by the building official.
B.
Illegal, nonconforming signs. Any sign that was not lawfully erected in accordance with the sign standards in effect at the time of installation, and for which the proper permits were not issued, or a sign that was subsequently altered in a manner inconsistent with those standards shall be considered an illegal sign and the owner shall not be granted legal, nonconforming status. Such signs shall be brought into compliance with the standards of this article within 90 calendar days of receipt of written notice by the building official or shall be removed. Such removal shall be entirely accomplished within the above 90-day period.
C.
Continuance of existing nonconforming signs. All signs that on the effective date of this article became nonconforming with respect to the standards adopted in this article may continue in existence provided the sign is not altered in any manner that increases the degree of nonconformity, and provided further that no portable or temporary sign shall be afforded the status of a legal, nonconforming sign.
D.
Same—Repair/replacement. A nonconforming sign shall not be replaced by another nonconforming sign except that the substitution of sign panels, painted boards or other dismountable materials to effect a change of copy or replacement of deteriorating display faces on nonconforming signs shall be allowed. Minor repairs and maintenance to nonconforming signs shall be allowed.
E.
Same—Change. No change in size, height or location of a nonconforming sign shall be permitted, nor shall any structural change be made to such sign except to render the sign in compliance with this article.
F.
Same—Removal from certain lots. All nonconforming signs established on a lot containing more than one ground sign on any lot frontage shall be removed within six months of the effective date of this article, unless otherwise provided, after which such nonconforming signs shall be declared illegal.
G.
Abandonment.
1.
In the event the use of a lot or a building on a lot ceases for a period exceeding three months, any nonconforming sign or signs shall be deemed to have been abandoned. All nonconforming signs located on such lots shall be brought into compliance with this article or shall be removed within three months of the date of abandonment. Occupancy of a property that has been suspended temporarily due to a change of ownership or management shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains unoccupied, regardless of whether or not utilities remain active, for a period of six months or more. All nonconforming signs located on a lot that experienced a change in ownership or management shall be brought into compliance with this article or shall be removed within three months of the date of abandonment. The support structure of an abandoned sign shall also be subject to the non-conforming use provisions of this section.
2.
A determination of abandonment by the building official shall be communicated in writing to the sign owner or building owner and the appropriate timeframe within which to render the sign in compliance shall begin upon receipt of such notice. Conforming signs that otherwise comply with this article that are located on property that has been deemed to have been abandoned may remain, provided such signs do not fall into disrepair.
3.
For purposes of this section, abandonment shall be determined by the building official based on a finding that any of the following conditions exist:
a.
Failure of the owner to maintain an occupational tax permit, as applicable;
b.
Failure to maintain the full complement of public utilities to the property; or
c.
Revocation of a certificate of occupancy for a period of six months or more.
4.
The building official shall provide written notice to the owner of the lot as to the abandoned status of the use of the lot or building and the implications of that status on the nonconforming sign or signs within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of either paragraphs a. b. or c., above.
H.
Sign destruction beyond the control of the owner. Any nonconforming sign damaged by a natural disaster, fire or other cause beyond the control of the owner to an extent exceeding 25 percent of repair costs, as determined by the building official, shall be brought into compliance with this article. Restoration to achieve such compliance shall be diligently pursued and completed within 90 days of the damage. In no event shall the sign structure or any structural member of a nonconforming sign be replaced.
I.
Maintenance and minor repair of nonconforming signs.
1.
Minor repairs and minor maintenance of nonconforming signs such as repainting or electrical repairs shall be allowed. However, no structural repairs or changes in the size, shape, height, design or location of a nonconforming sign shall be allowed except to render the sign in compliance with the standards of this article.
2.
Restoration of nonconforming signs to a safe condition shall be allowed; provided no change in the size of the display face shall be allowed.
J.
Impact of public action. In the event any sign must be removed to accommodate a road widening or other public improvement, such removal shall be accomplished within 90 calendar days following the conclusion of all necessary public agency action to achieve such removal.
K.
Impact of site improvements on a nonconforming sign or signs. Where a legal, nonconforming sign is located on a lot for which renovation of the primary building exceeding 50 percent of replacement cost of the building or development of an undeveloped lot is proposed, any such sign or signs shall be brought into compliance with this article or shall be removed as provided in section 98-21.16, nonconforming signs, subsection B.
L.
Sign maintenance exempt from permit requirements. A change of a sign display face or copy or message panel on an existing, approved and properly permitted sign or a legal, nonconforming sign, shall not require a sign permit; provided in the event the proposed display face or panel replacement creates a need for any structural repair or alteration, or results in a change in the size or height of the sign, a sign permit shall be required for the purpose of bringing the sign into compliance with the standards of this article.
M.
Signs on annexed property. Existing signs established on newly annexed property that were legally erected under a county ordinance that would become nonconforming under this article upon annexation by the city shall be allowed to remain and the building official shall issue a sign permit to the property or sign owner. Such signs shall be registered with the city within 90 days of the property on which the sign is located being annexed by the city.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.17. - Removal of certain signs.
A.
Removal of dilapidated signs.
1.
The city may remove any sign and sign structure that becomes dilapidated following written notice by the building official. The owner of a dilapidated sign shall have 30 calendar days following receipt of such notice to remedy any dilapidated condition.
B.
Removal of nonconforming, abandoned signs.
1.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, any nonconforming sign located on property that becomes vacant and unoccupied for a period of three months or longer shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Permanent signs applicable to a business temporarily suspended due to a change of ownership or management of such business shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant for a period of six months or more. Sign panels from abandoned signs shall be covered with a blank sheet within the timeframe specified in this subsection. The supporting structure of an abandoned sign shall be subject to the non-conforming use provisions of section 98-21.16, nonconforming signs, subsection B.
2.
All nonconforming signs that have been deemed to be abandoned, including all sign structures, shall be entirely removed by the property owner or sign owner no later than 30 calendar days following written notice from the building official of a determination of abandonment. In the event the property owner or sign owner fails to comply within 30 calendar days of such notice, the city may cause removal of the sign at the sole expense of the property owner or sign owner.
C.
Removal of conforming abandoned signs.
1.
Despite such signs being conforming, any abandoned sign can be a source of blight. Accordingly, while the schedule for removal of a conforming sign that is abandoned may be relaxed relative to a nonconforming sign, any abandoned sign must be removed.
2.
All conforming signs that have been deemed to be abandoned, including all sign structures, shall be entirely removed by the property owner or sign owner no later than six months following written notice from the building official of a determination of abandonment. In the event the property owner or sign owner fails to comply within this six-month period, the city may cause removal of the sign at the sole expense of the property owner or sign owner.
D.
Removal of dangerous or defective signs.
1.
Signs that represent a hazard to public health, safety or welfare shall not be considered legal, nonconforming signs, nor derive any protection associated with such status.
2.
Any sign declared unsafe by the building official shall be rendered safe or removed within 48 hours of receipt of written notice by the building official.
3.
Any sign constituting a traffic hazard for motorists, cyclists or pedestrians, as determined by the building official in consultation with the chief of police, shall be removed within 48 hours of receipt of written notice by the building official.
4.
No person shall maintain or permit to be maintained on any premises owned or controlled by that person any dangerous or defective sign. Any such sign shall be repaired by the property owner or sign owner or shall be removed. Upon failure of the owner to repair or remove a dangerous or defective sign, the building official shall proceed as provided in subsection 98-21.19.5, unsafe signs.
E.
Removal of illegal signs.
1.
Illegal signs comprise a violation of this article.
2.
Any sign determined to be illegal as defined in section 98-21.16, nonconforming signs, shall be removed within ten business days of receipt of written notice by the building official.
3.
The owner of an illegal sign may apply for a permit to perform such alterations to the sign as would render the sign in compliance with this article. The sign would be deemed a conforming sign following such alterations indicated on the sign permit and written confirmation of compliance by the building official.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.18. - Variances.
A.
The board of zoning appeals (BZA) shall be authorized to grant variances from the standards of this article when due to unusual characteristics of the property strict enforcement of the standards will result in undue hardship. A variance may be granted in an individual case upon a finding by the BZA that each of the following conditions are present:
1.
Extraordinary conditions pertain to the property related to the size, shape, topography or characteristics of development not common to other properties render it virtually impossible to comply with the standards of this article;
2.
Natural features of the lot or natural features, trees, plants, signs or buildings present on property immediately adjacent to the lot would substantially impair the visibility of a conforming sign from a public street;
3.
Placement of the sign elsewhere on the lot would not remedy the visual obstruction;
4.
Proximity of existing signs on an adjacent lot causes the property to be ineligible for the type sign of being sought due to spacing requirements;
5.
Strict application of the standards of this article would cause undue hardship and deprive the applicant of rights commonly available to owners of similar properties;
6.
The extraordinary conditions are not the result of actions by the applicant;
7.
Granting the variance will not confer upon the applicant any significant privileges denied to owners of similar properties;
8.
The variance represents the minimum deviation from the standards necessary to overcome the hardship;
9.
The variance would not create a hazard to motorists, cyclists, pedestrians or nearby residents; and
10.
The variance will be in harmony with the purposes of this article and will not be injurious to the Thomaston community or public welfare.
B.
Variances shall not be granted for the following approvals:
1.
A variance that would allow a greater number of signs than would be allowed in the absence of such hardship;
2.
A variance to increase the allowable area of an individual sign as set by this article;
3.
A variance to sign height greater than an increase of 20 percent of the maximum allowable height for a sign in the zoning district assigned to the property.
C.
The BZA shall be authorized to decide variances from the standards of this article and appeals of a decision by an officer of the city as provided in section 2-132, powers, duties and responsibilities generally. The board shall hear and decide applications for a variance within 90 days of submittal of a complete application, including payment of the application fee. Applications for variances shall be placed on a board of zoning appeals agenda no fewer than 30 and no more than 60 calendar days from the date of receipt of a complete application. Signs under construction that are the subject of an appeal shall be concealed by a blank cover, sheet or other means pending a decision of the board.
D.
An appeal of a decision by the board of zoning appeals under this section shall be decided by city council at a properly noticed public hearing.
E.
An administrative variance may be granted by the city manager for up to a maximum deviation of 20 percent from the standards of this article upon a written finding that the proposed variance demonstrates that each of the conditions of subsection A. above are present.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.19. - Enforcement, violation and penalty.
The following sections shall apply to all signs regulated by this article.
98-21.19.1. Enforcement.
A.
Responsibility for administering this article. The building official shall be responsible for administering this article.
B.
Violations. Any failure to comply with the standards of this article that continues following proper notice by the building official shall be deemed a violation of this article. The building official is hereby authorized and directed to issue a citation upon discovery of any violation of any standard of this article. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All notices by the building official shall be hand delivered or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed to have been given a minimum of three business days following such mailing. Any time periods provided in this article shall be deemed to commence on the date of service as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 9-11-4.
C.
Responsibility for interpretation. The building official shall interpret the standards, requirements, definitions and any other provision of this article. The building official shall provide a written response to a request for an interpretation of this article filed with the city clerk within ten business days of receipt of such request. Any appeal of an interpretation by the building official shall be subject to the appeal procedures of section 98-21.15, appeals.
D.
Inspection. The building official shall periodically inspect each sign within the city for indications of wear, hazardous condition and compliance with this article and other applicable codes and ordinances. Responsibility for maintaining all signs in a safe condition shall remain with the sign owner at all times.
E.
Citations. Without limitation, businesses, organizations, builders, developers, contractors, sign fabricators, property owners, and other such parties responsible for the violation may be cited for violation of any standards of this article.
98-21.19.2. Violations.
A.
Nuisance. Any violation of this article is hereby declared a public nuisance. Improperly located signs or prohibited signs are hereby determined to pose an immediate safety threat and traffic hazard to the public traveling on city roadways.
B.
Signs to comply with city codes and ordinances. No person shall willfully or intentionally fabricate, erect, operate, use or maintain any sign within the city in violation of this article.
C.
Installing signs without proper consent. No person shall place, print, nail, tack or otherwise fasten any sign, card, banner, hand built sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind, or cause the same, on any private property without first obtaining the written consent of the owner of such property or his or her lawfully designated agent.
98-21.19.3. Penalties.
A.
Failure to obtain a sign permit as required by this article shall be grounds for removal of the sign pursuant to this article or issuance of a citation. Any person deemed to have violated this article shall, upon conviction, be subject to section 1-11, general penalty; continuing violations, of this Code which provides that "Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense."
B.
Any person who violates this article or fails to comply with any standard of this article shall also upon conviction be subject to section 1-11, general penalty; continuing violations, of this Code and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in each separate offense. Except for a different violation, each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense, but only after the passage of 30 calendar days from the date of conviction.
C.
The city municipal court may also issue an order requiring removal of any sign in violation of this article. In the event a business owner or property owner fails to comply with a removal order within ten days of a court hearing, the building official shall cause the removal of such sign. The cost of removal shall be charged against the sign owner or property owner if known, or alternately, a lien shall be placed against the property on which the sign is located.
D.
Dilapidated signs. The city may after due notice issue a citation to a property owner for any sign that becomes dilapidated, including signs that are faded, torn, damaged or otherwise unsightly, or in a state of disrepair. Such notice shall be in writing, shall specify the sign and location, and shall inform the owner that the sign has not been properly maintained and constitutes a violation of this article. The city shall give the owner of such sign or signs 30 calendar days to remedy the condition or remove the dilapidated sign before being issued a citation. The city may also remove any dilapidated sign following due notice at any time after the expiration of the 30 calendar days.
E.
Any person having a financial interest in a sign or the property on which the sign is located may appeal the determination of the building official ordering removal or compliance by filing a written notice of appeal with the board of zoning appeals within ten business days of receipt of such notice. Appeals shall be addressed as provided in section 98-21.15, appeals.
98-21.19.4. Sign removal process.
A.
The building official shall cause the removal of any sign he or she has determined endangers public safety. Potential hazards include an abandoned, dangerous, or electrically or structurally defective sign or a sign for which the proper permit has not been issued or which is otherwise in violation of this article. The building official shall provide written notice to the owner of record of the property on which the sign is located describing the sign and the violation. The notice shall advise the owner of the necessity of correcting the violation within 48 hours of such notice or face removal of the sign in accordance with the provisions of this section, including payment of all associated costs.
B.
In the event the property owner or sign owner fails to pursue corrective measures within the prescribed timeframe, and upon appeal to the board of zoning appeals the decision of the building official is affirmed, and the owner fails to pursue appropriate corrective measures or remove the sign in violation of this article within the prescribed timeframe, the building official shall proceed with removal of the sign. Alternately, the building official may initiate corrective measures to remedy the violation by bringing the sign into compliance with this article, thereby eliminating any unsafe condition.
C.
Signs that pose an imminent hazard. Upon a determination by the building official that a sign causes imminent danger to public safety and contact cannot be made with the sign owner or property owner, written notice shall not be required to eliminate the hazard. In such emergencies, the building official shall document the unsafe condition and may correct the dangerous condition as soon as is practical, with all costs being charged to the sign owner or the property owner.
D.
Any sign removed by the building official pursuant to the provisions of this section shall become the property of the city and may be disposed of in any manner deemed appropriate by the city. The cost of removal of the sign by the city shall constitute a lien against the property that shall be recoverable in the same manner as city property taxes. The cost of removal shall include all incidental expenses incurred by the city in connection with removal of the sign.
98-21.19.5. Unsafe signs.
A.
Upon a determination by the building official that a sign is unsafe or unstable or has been fabricated, installed or maintained in violation of the standards of this article, he or she shall give written notice of such condition to the property owner or the owner of the sign. Such written notice shall include a brief description of the violation to be remedied, and shall cite the applicable section of this article comprising the violation. In the event the property owner or owner of the sign cannot be contacted, notice shall be affected by affixing the notice to the sign or to the building on the property on which the sign is located.
B.
The owner of the property on which an unsafe sign is located or the individual responsible for maintaining the sign shall secure the sign in compliance with the provisions of this article, as approved in writing by the building official, or the sign shall be removed. In the event such conditions are not remedied within 48 hours of receipt of written notice from the building official, a formal citation shall be issued.
C.
The city may proceed with all remedies provided by law and may cause any sign that is an immediate threat to persons, property or public safety to be removed summarily and without notice. The cost of removal of such signs shall be charged against the sign owner if known, or against the owner of the property on which the sign is located in accordance with the actual cost to the city. The cost of removal may be placed as a lien on the property on which the sign is located.
98-21.19.6. Unlawful signs.
A.
Any signs, fliers, bills, posters or similar object illegally placed within the public right-of-way or affixed to any public building, whether located within or outside the public right-of-way, may be removed immediately by the city without notice. Any damage to any public building resulting from such prohibited placement shall be immediately repaired or otherwise corrected by the responsible party. For purposes of enforcement, the responsible party shall be deemed the party benefiting or intending to benefit from the sign to be removed.
B.
Signs illegally placed in the public right-of-way may be removed by the building official and impounded. Impounded signs may be reclaimed by paying a fee of $25.00 for each sign to the city. Signs not reclaimed within 30 calendar days may be destroyed.
C.
It shall be unlawful for a person to display false statements upon signs or other public places calculated to mislead the public as to anything sold, services to be performed or information disseminated. The fact that any such sign or display contains words or language sufficient to mislead a reasonable or prudent person shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this article by persons displaying such sign or permitting such sign to be displayed on their property.
98-21.19.7. Notice of violation.
A.
The building official shall be authorized to give written notice to the property owner or owner of any sign installed or maintained in violation of any section of this article or other applicable ordinances. Such notice shall state the code section in violation and the manner in which such violation may be remedied. Notice concerning a sign in violation where the owner of the sign is unknown shall be effected by affixing of a copy of the notice to the sign, to the sign structure or building on the lot on which the sign is located for a minimum of five business days. In the event the sign owner cannot be found, the duty to remedy the code violations shall be with the owner of the property on which the sign is located. Failure to remedy all code violations within ten days business days shall cause the building official to order removal of the sign in violation, notice of which shall be given in the same manner as the notice of violation. The owner of a temporary or portable display sign that is in violation of this article shall be given three business days in which to bring the sign into compliance or effect removal. Citations may be issued immediately to the party benefiting or intending to benefit from the sign or his or her agent.
B.
Notice shall be given to the owner of the property on which the sign is located, the owner of the sign, if known, and the occupant of the property, if any. In the event any such person is unknown or cannot be found, written notice shall be mailed to the last known address as reflected in the property tax records and posted on the sign or on the premises.
C.
All notices by the building official shall be given as provided in section 98-21.3, definitions. Any timeframes provided in this section shall be deemed to commence on the date of service as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 9-11-4.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.20. - Compliance with state law.
A.
Compliance with the Georgia Outdoor Advertising Control Act. Any sign located or to be located within 660 feet of the nearest right-of-way of a U.S. or state-numbered highway, or any other road designated as a "primary highway" by the State of Georgia and approved by the U.S. Department of Transportation, or located or to be located beyond 660 feet of such highway, but would be visible and intended to be read from such highway shall comply with all requirements of the Georgia Outdoor Advertising Control Act, O.C.G.A. 32-6-70 et seq.
B.
Compliance with AASHTO Roadside Design Guide. Sign installations on state and federal highways shall meet setback and clear zone distance criteria based on the latest edition of the Roadside Design Guide by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
C.
Preemption. No provision set forth in this article is intended to preempt any state or federal laws or regulations. Should any provision set forth herein be in conflict with any state or federal laws or regulations, the state or federal law shall be controlling.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.21. - Conflicting ordinances.
A.
Repealer. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby expressly repealed. In the event there is a conflict among the provisions set forth in this chapter, the more stringent standard shall control.
B.
Expression. Any sign allowed to contain commercial expression under this article may also contain noncommercial expression. Any sign allowed to contain noncommercial expression under this article may also contain commercial expression.
C.
State/federal prohibition. Any sign the regulation of which under this article is prohibited by state or federal law, or prohibited elsewhere in this article, shall be exempt from regulation under this article to the extent of such prohibition.
D.
Other laws remain applicable. All signs shall comply with all federal, state, county, and city ordinances, laws, chapters, codes and rules. Compliance with the terms of this article shall not operate to relieve any individual, corporation, or other entity of any other duty or responsibility imposed by law.
E.
Compliance with technical codes; zoning. All signs erected, replaced, reconstructed, altered, relocated or modified within the city shall conform to all applicable requirements of the statewide minimum construction codes and any permissive building codes adopted by the city. Where the provisions of this Code, other articles of the zoning ordinance and this article conflict or overlap, the standards and requirements of this article shall prevail and be controlling.
F.
More stringent standards control. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more restrictive standards than are required by this article, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.22. - Fees.
The cost of a permit shall be as set forth in section 18-30, fees—payment required; schedule of fees and charges; contractor's responsibility.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.23. - Effective date.
This article shall be effective immediately upon its adoption by mayor and city council.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-21.24. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or word of any part of this article is declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, or the provisions of any part of this article as applied to any particular situation or set of circumstances are declared invalid or unconstitutional, such individuality shall not be construed to affect the remaining portions of this article not so held to be invalid. The remaining portions of this article not so held to be invalid shall remain in full force and effect as though such portion or portions so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally part of this article. The city council declares that it would have enacted the remaining parts of this article had city council known that such portion thereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
EXHIBIT A
EXPAND
Table 4.1 Uses Table with Permitted Uses ("P") and Special Uses ("S") by Zoning District ("Uses Table")
Use ES-1 ES-2 R-1 R-2 C-TH M-R C-1 C-2 DT P-I M-1 M-2 See sec. standard
RESIDENTIAL
Single family detached unit P P P P Sec. 98-5.2.1.
Family personal care home P P P P Sec. 98-5.3.1.1.
Townhouse/condominium P P P P
Duplex P
Triplex P
Quadruplex P
Apartments P P P P
Live-work units P P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.24.
Boarding or rooming house S Sec. 98-5.3.2.17.
Accessory dwelling unit P P P P Sec. 98-5.2.6.
Residential accessory building, detached P P P P P P Sec. 98-5.2.4.
Residential accessory building, attached P P P P Sec. 98-5.2.5.
Adult care home S S P
Family child care learning home S P Sec. 98-5.3.2.1.
Home occupations P P P P P P Sec. 98-5.4.2.
COMMERCIAL
Accessory buildings, non-residential P P P P P P Sec. 98-5.2.7.
Agricultural produce stands P P S Sec. 98-5.3.2.3.
Ambulance services S S S P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.5.
Amusement parks and arcades S
Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics S P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.6.A.
Animal shelters P Sec. 98-5.3.2.6.B.
Antique shops P P P
Appliance stores P P
Arenas, stadiums or other
sporting event facilities S
Art dealers, studios and galleries P P P
Art supply stores P P P
Auction houses P P
Auto brokers, office use, only P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.7.
Bakeries, retail P P P
Banks, credit unions and savings institutions P P
Barber shops P P P
Bars, subject to chapter 6, alcoholic beverages P
Beauty salons P P P
Beauty supply stores P P
Bed and breakfast inns S S S S P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.8.
Beer and wine sales, retail, subject to chapter 6, alcoholic beverages P P P S Sec. 98-5.3.2.4.
Billiard and pool halls S S
Book stores P P P
Botanical gardens and nature parks P P
Breweries, consumption on the premises P P P
Breweries, consumption off the premises P
Brewpubs, subject to chapter 6, alcoholic beverages S S P
Broadcasting P
Building and construction establishments, landscape contractors S P
Business incubators P P P
Business support services,
excluding repossession services P
Cafeterias and buffets P P P
Candy stores P P
Car wash P
Carpet and upholstery cleaning services P
CBD stores S
Cemeteries accessory to a place of worship, only P
Check cashing services, accessory use only S Sec. 98-5.3.2.12.
Child care learning center P
Cigar and tobacco shops P P P
Cigar lounges P P
Climate-controlled storage
facilities P Sec. 98-5.3.2.13.
Clothing stores P P P
Coffee shops P P P
Commercial greenhouses and plant nurseries P Sec. 98-5.3.2.14.
Commercial parking lots and parking decks S S S S
Construction equipment rental and leasing P P
Convenience stores that dispense fuels P Sec. 98-5.3.2.19.
Convention and visitors bureaus P P
Cosmetic stores P P
Courier and express delivery services P P P
Coworking space P P P
Craft distilleries P
Crafts studios P S P
Crematories S Sec. 98-5.3.2.11.
Data processing, hosting, and related services P P
Day spas P S P
Delicatessens P P P
Department stores P
Diet and weight reducing centers P P
Distilled spirits, retail, subject to chapter 6, alcoholic beverages P Sec. 98-5.3.2.4.
Dress making shops P P
Drinking establishments, with music entertainment S P
Dry cleaning establishments P P P
Electronics and appliance stores P
Employment agencies and
executive search services;
staffing agencies P
Entertainment venues P
Event centers S P S Sec. 98-5.3.2.21.
Exterminating and pest control services P
Farm supply store P
Fireworks, retail sale subject to O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq. P
Fitness centers, health clubs and recreation centers P S
Florists P P P
Food service establishments P P P
Food trucks and food truck courts P P P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.23.
Funeral homes and funeral services P S P
Furniture and home furnishings P P P
Game stores P P P
Garden centers P
General rental centers P
Gift, novelty and souvenir shops P P P
Golf courses S S S S P Sec. 98-5.3.2.15.A.
Golf driving range S S S S P P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.15.A.
Growler service P P
Gun sales P S
Gun sales, including manufacture of ammunition S
Hair braiding salons P P P
Hair salons P P P
Hardware stores P P P
Hobby stores P P P
Home centers P
Hookah bars S
Hotels P P
Indoor firing ranges S
Insurance agencies P P P
Janitorial services P
Jewelry stores P P
Kennels, breeding P Sec. 98-5.3.2.6.C.
Kennels, pet boarding S Sec. 98-5.3.2.6.C.
Light truck, utility trailer and RV rental and leasing P
Local messenger and delivery services P
Locksmiths P
Luggage and leather goods stores P P
Lumber yards, retail P P P
Machinery repair, excluding automotive repair P
Maker space P P
Massage therapy center P P
Medical and diagnostic laboratories P P P
Medical offices and clinics P P P P
Miniature golf course P
Mini-warehouses S P Sec. 98-5.3.2.25.
Mixed use P P P
Mortgage and non-mortgage loan brokers P
Motels P
Motion picture and video postproduction services P P P
Motion picture theaters, indoor only P P
Motor vehicle towing and wrecker services, excluding vehicle storage S
Music stores P P P
Nail salons P P P
News organizations P P
Non-alcoholic beverage bars P P P
Office supply stores P P P
Offices P P P P
Oil change stations P
Optical goods stores P P P
Outdoor amphitheaters and performance venues S
Outdoor farmers' market P P P
Outdoor go-cart concessions P Sec. 98-5.3.2.15.B.
Outdoor power equipment stores P
Outpatient medical care centers P P
Paint and wallpaper stores P P P
Paintball competition courses P
Passenger car rental P
Pawn shops, including title pawn P Sec. 98-5.3.2.26.
Performing arts center P S
Perfume stores P P
Personal fitness training centers P P P
Pet and pet supply stores P P
Pet day care P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.6.D.
Pet grooming shops P P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.6.E.
Pharmacies P P P
Photofinishing services P P P
Photography studios P P P
Plant nurseries P P
Produce stands P P P
Public buildings, structures, lots and uses P P P P P P P P P P P P
Radio and television broadcasting stations P
Recreation facilities P Sec. 98-5.3.2.15.A.
Recreation, youth sports teams fields P Sec. 98-5.3.2.15.A.
Recreational vehicle, boat, ATV, etc. sales P Sec. 98-5.3.2.28.
Restaurants, including fast food, drive-in and drive-thru P
Restaurants, limited service; excluding drive-in and drive-through windows P P P
Retail business, including limited making of products sold at retail P P
Retail sales of new cellular phones and service plans P
RV, boat and motorcycle repair and maintenance S
Scientific research and
development services P P P
Sewing shops P P
Sexually oriented businesses S Sec. 98-5.3.2.41.
Shoe repair shops P P
Shoe stores P P
Short-term rentals S S S S S S Sec. 98-5.3.2.9.
Shuttle services, vanpools and other ground transportation P P
Small box discount stores P Sec. 98-5.3.2.29.
Sound recording studios P P
Special events P P Sec. 98-5.5.3.
Special needs transportation P P
Specialized schools P
Specialty food stores, not for
on-premises consumption P P P
Sporting goods stores P P P
Supermarkets and other grocery stores P P P
Swimming pools, public; aquatic centers, commercial P Sec. 98-5.3.2.33.2.
Tailor shops P P P
Tattoo and body piercing studios P P
Taverns, subject to chapter 6, alcoholic beverages P
Taxi and limousine service P Sec. 98-5.3.2.30.
Taxi and limousine service, dispatch and storage S
Testing laboratories, excluding medical and veterinary testing S S
Tire shops S
Toy stores P P P
Travel agencies P P P
Truck stops S S P
Used merchandise stores P P P
Vape shops S
Vehicle body shop S Sec. 98-5.3.2.34.
Vehicle parts and accessories sales P Sec. 98-5.3.2.35.
Vehicle rental agencies P Sec. 98-5.3.2.36.
Vehicle sales P Sec. 98-5.3.2.37.
Vehicle service establishments, major P Sec. 98-5.3.2.38.
Vehicle service establishments, minor P Sec. 98-5.3.2.38.
Vehicle washing service P Sec. 98-5.3.2.39.
Vocational schools P
Warehouse clubs and
supercenters P P
INSTITUTIONAL
Adult day center S P Sec. 98-5.3.2.2.
Artist, dance and music schools and other educational facilities P P
Cafeterias and restaurants, provided these uses are operated only in conjunction with hospitals or public buildings P
Cemeteries S S S S S S S
Child caring institution P
Clubs, lodges and other places of assembly P P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.31.
Convalescent home P
Halfway houses S Sec. 98-5.3.2.18.
Health clinics P
Homeless shelters S
Hospice P
Hospitals and similar medical facilities P
Nursing homes P
Offices of attorneys, accountants, architects, engineers, landscape architects and members of other occupations P P P P
Personal care home, congregate P Sec. 98-5.3.2.16.
Personal care home, group P Sec. 98-5.3.2.16.
Places of worship P P P P P P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.31.
Professional offices and medical clinics of physicians, medical practitioners P
Public and private schools S S S S P Sec. 98-5.3.2.27.
Public buildings and facilities, hospitals and other property owned or used by hospitals P
Real estate agencies P P P P
Specialty shops normally operated in conjunction with hospitals and medical or health clinics P
Temporary shelters S
Tutoring services P
INDUSTRIAL
Airport and support services P P
Apparel manufacturing P P
Baking establishments P
Bitcoin Mining P
Bottling and distribution plants P
Building materials yards, milling and junk yards S
Charter bus terminal P
Clay product and refractory manufacturing P
Computer and electronic product manufacturing P P
C-2 General Commercial District uses S
Distillery P P
Distribution centers P P
Electrical equipment, appliance and component manufacturing P
Electrical transformer or
distribution stations and
gas regulator stations P P P P P P P P P P P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.32.
Fuel storage terminals S
Furniture and related products manufacturing P
General freight trucking P P
General freight trucking,
long haul P
Heavy agricultural equipment sales and repair P
Indoor cold storage P P
Leather and allied product manufacturing P
Lumber storage terminals P
Manufacturing, traditional P
Medical equipment and supplies manufacturing P
Medium and heavy-duty truck, bus, and similar motor vehicle dealer P
Motion picture and video production, including sound stages S P P
Motor vehicle towing and wrecker services, including vehicle storage S
Pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturing P P
Printing and related support activities P P
Private airstrip or heliport P P
Public and private utility structures, including electric generating plants and related facilities P P
Telecommunications towers and facilities P P Sec. 98-5.3.2.40.
Transportation equipment manufacturing P P
Truck terminals S S
Warehousing P P
Wholesale and storage P P
Wholesale trade with customer showrooms P P
Wineries P S P
Wood products manufacturing and sawmills P
  (Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
