Chapter 50 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; construction codes, § 18-26 et seq.; unfit and unsafe buildings, § 18-121 et seq.; civil emergencies, ch. 34; unsanitary or unsafe property, § 46-41 et seq.; historic preservation, ch. 58; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 74; utilities, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Impersonating a public officer or employee, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-23; obstruction or hindering of firefighters, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24.1; transmitting false report of a fire, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27; regulation of fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.; regulation of fire and other hazards to persons and property generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.; smoke detectors required in new dwellings and dwelling units, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-40; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.; authority to enact ordinances or fire and life safety codes, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq.; mutual aid resource pacts, O.C.G.A. § 25-6-1 et seq.; Georgia Fire Academy Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-7-1 et seq.; authority to provide police and fire protection, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(1); following fire apparatus or emergency vehicle, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-247; crossing fire hose, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-248; Uniform Act for the Application of Building and Fire Related Codes to Existing Buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-200; statewide application of Standard Fire Prevention Code, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; providing of fire escapes and exits by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE AND SAFETY CODES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Construction codes, § 18-26 et seq.

Sec. 50-26. - Adoption of life safety code.
The NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, 1991 edition, copyrighted by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), is hereby ordained as an ordinance of the city. A copy of such code is officially filed as part of the records of the city in the office of the city clerk, and is officially authenticated by the following entry thereon:
"The within code is the official copy of the same of the City of Thomaston, Georgia, referred to and by reference made a part of Ordinance No. 768, of the City of Thomaston, Georgia, and shall remain in the office of the clerk of the City of Thomaston, as part of the official records of the City of Thomaston, Georgia."
Such code shall be further authenticated by the signature of the city clerk, and by the seal of the city. Such copy of the code is, by this reference, incorporated in this section and made a part of this section in as full and complete a manner as though set out in full in this section.
(Code 1965, § 13-7)
Sec. 50-27. - Adoption of standard system for identification of fire hazards of materials.
(a)
The National Fire Protection Association 704 Standard System for the Identification of the Fire Hazards of Materials, 1990 edition, which has been copyrighted by such association, is hereby ordained as an ordinance of the city.
(b)
A copy of the National Fire Protection Association 704 Standard System for the Identification of the Fire Hazards of Materials, 1990 edition, is officially filed as a part of the records of the city, in the office of the city clerk, and is officially authenticated by the following entry thereon:
"The within National Fire Protection Association 704 Standard System for the Identification of the Fire Hazards of Materials, 1990 edition, is the official copy of the same of the City of Thomaston, Georgia, referred to and by reference made a part of Ordinance No. 778, and shall remain in the office of the city clerk of the City of Thomaston, as part of the official records of the City of Thomaston, Georgia."
Such code shall be authenticated by the signature of the city clerk, and by the seal of the city. Such copy of the standard is, by this reference, incorporated in this section and made a part of this section in as full and complete a manner as though set out in full in this section.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to have or keep in any industrial plant or commercial storage facility any of the materials described and defined in the National Fire Protection Association 704 Standard System for the Identification of the Fire Hazards of Materials, 1990 edition, without identifying the same in the manner provided for in such standard system adopted in subsection (a) of this section. Any person who stores or maintains any of such materials in any industrial plant or commercial storage facility without complying with such standards, shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1965, § 13-8)
Secs. 50-28, 50-29. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - REGULATION OF BURNING WITHIN THE CITY OF THOMASTON

Sec. 50-30. - Open burning prohibited.
No person shall ignite, cause to be ignited, permit to be ignited, allow or maintain any fire for the purpose of burning or consuming yard waste, leaves, limbs, straw, refuse, garbage, or other waste material, except as specifically provided in section 50-31.
(Ord. No. 1038, 3-2-10)
Sec. 50-31. - Exceptions to burning prohibition.
(a)
Recreational fires: Fires for cooking and heating. All such fires must use only charcoal; clean, dry, untreated wood; natural gas or propane. All such fires shall be within a non-combustible container devices or structure designed for the purpose of containing a fire. Provided, however, that such burning is within the limits for emission of visible air contaminants established by the State of Georgia and further provided that it is attended to by an adult person.
(b)
Disaster rubbish: The open burning of rubbish, including landscape waste, for the duration of a community disaster period in cases where an officially declared emergency exists.
(c)
Training fires: Fires set by the City of Thomaston Fire Department and used for the purpose of bona fide instruction and training of public, institutional or industrial employees in the methods of firefighting, providing that such burning is conducted in compliance with applicable state regulations.
(d)
Incinerators: Incinerators operated by permit issued by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, when operated in accordance with the permit.
(e)
Open Burning by permit: Such open burning activities for which an open burning permit has been requested from, and issued by, the Thomaston Fire Chief or his designee. Open burning activities for which a permit may be issued include: Ceremonial fires for groups or organizations; prescribed landscape fires for the maintenance of vegetation grasses and agricultural areas; the open burning of landscape waste; for the controlled burns of vegetation; for the operation of a commercially manufactured incinerator for which a permit issued by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources is not required and which is located in a non-residential zoning district; and such other open burning activities as are deemed necessary and appropriate. No burn permits shall be issued from May 1 through September 30. No burn permits shall be issued when surface winds are greater than ten miles per hour. No burn permits shall be issued when "red flag" warnings are issued by the Georgia Forestry Commission. All fires shall be constantly attended by an adult with a means of extinguishment at hand. Permit holder assumes all liability resulting from any damage for any open burning permitted under this article.
(Ord. No. 1038, 3-2-10)
Sec. 50-32. - Open burning permits.
Any person who desires to accomplish open burning in the city pursuant to the provisions of subsection 50-31(e) may submit an application for approval of an open burning permit. No application fee is required. Upon receipt of such an application, the Thomaston Fire Chief or his designees shall investigate the application and shall determine whether the permit should be denied or granted and, if granted, under what conditions or limitations.
In considering whether to grant an open burning permit, the fire chief, or his designee shall consider potential damage to property or persons; potential adverse affects of smoke and other products of combustion; alternative disposal methods available; and the relative costs of alternative disposal methods.
(Ord. No. 1038, 3-2-10)
Sec. 50-33. - Authority of public officers.
The fire chief, or his designee, and City of Thomaston Police Officers may require that any open burning activity in the city be immediately discontinued, if the officer determines that activity to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 1038, 3-2-10)
Sec. 50-34. - Violation penalties.
Violation of this section shall be punished as per the penalties set out in chapter 1, section 1-11 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 1038, 3-2-10)
Sec. 50-35. - Powers supplemental to other laws.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of the courts or of any department of the city to enforce any provisions of its local enabling Act, its charter, or its ordinances or regulations nor to prevent or punish violations thereof; and the powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law or ordinance.
(Ord. No. 1038, 3-2-10)
