ARTICLE 98-15. - ETHICS, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND DISCLOSURES
The governing authority of each county and each municipality may adopt plans and may exercise the power of zoning, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 4; The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; zoning proposal review procedures, O.C.G.A. § 36-67-1 et seq.; conflict of interest in zoning actions, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.

Sec. 98-15.1. - Ethics.
A.
All members of boards, commissions and authorities having the authority or responsibility to offer recommendations on zoning decisions or to render zoning decisions shall be subject to O.C.G.A. tit. 45, public officers and employees, ch. 10, codes of ethics and conflicts of interest, art. 1, codes of ethics, §§ 45-10-1, code of ethics for government service generally—establishment and text, and § 45-10-3, code of ethics for members of boards, commissions, and authorities—establishment and text.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-15.2. - Conflicts of interest.
A.
The zoning commission members shall adhere to the provisions contained in the following excerpt from the Official Code of Georgia Annotated:
B.
"Any government official, as defined in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, Title 36—Local Government Provisions—Provisions applicable to Counties and Municipal Corporations, Chapter 67A—Conflict of Interest in Zoning Actions, having a financial interest in any real property affected by a rezoning or consideration of a conditional use, or having a member of the family with such an interest, shall immediately disclose the nature and extent of such interest as required by Title 36, Chapter 67A."
C.
Chapter 67A, Conflicts of interest in zoning actions, Georgia Code (Last Updated: August 20, 2013) Title 36, Local Government Provisions Applicable to Counties and Municipal Corporations, Chapter 67A, Conflict of Interest in Zoning Actions establishes the following definitions:
Section 36-67A-1. Definitions
"Applicant" means any person who applies for a rezoning action and any attorney or other person representing or acting on behalf of a person who applies for a rezoning action.
"Business entity" means any corporation, partnership, limited partnership, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, or trust.
"Campaign contribution" means a "contribution" as defined in paragraph (7) of Code Section 21-5-3.
"Financial interest" means all direct ownership interests of the total assets or capital stock of a business entity where such ownership interest is 10 percent or more.
"Local government" means any county or municipality of this state.
"Local government official" means any member of the governing authority of a local government or any member of a planning or the zoning commission.
"Member of the family" means the spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son, or daughter of a local government official.
"Opponent" means any person who opposes a rezoning action or any attorney or other person representing or acting on behalf of a person who opposes a rezoning action.
"Oppose" means to appear before, discuss with, or contact, either orally or in writing, any local government or local government official and argue against a rezoning action.
"Person" means an individual, partnership, committee, association, corporation, labor organization, or any other organization or group of persons.
"Property interest" means the direct ownership of real property and includes any percentage of ownership less than total ownership.
"Real property" means any tract or parcel of land and, if developed, any buildings or structures located on the land.
"Rezoning action" means action by local government adopting an amendment to a zoning ordinance which has the effect of rezoning real property from one zoning classification to another.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-15.3. - Disclosures.
A. The following sections found in O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-2 (2010) shall apply to mayor and city council, the zoning commission and the board of zoning appeals in the exercise of their respective authority:
Section 36-67A-2. Disclosure of financial interests.
A local government official who knew or reasonably should have known he or she:
1.
Has a property interest in any real property affected by a rezoning action which that official's local government will have the duty to consider;
2.
Has a financial interest in any business entity which has a property interest in any real property affected by a rezoning action which that official's local government will have the duty to consider; or
3.
Has a member of the family having any interest described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this Code section shall immediately disclose the nature and extent of such interest, in writing, to the governing authority of the local government in which the local government official is a member. The local government official who has an interest as defined in paragraph (1) or (2) of this Code section shall disqualify himself from voting on the rezoning action. The disqualified local government official shall not take any other action on behalf of himself or any other person to influence action on the application for rezoning. The disclosures provided for in this Code section shall be a public record and available for public inspection at any time during normal working hours. Section 36-67A-3. Disclosure of campaign contributions
A.
When any applicant for rezoning action has made, within two years immediately preceding the filing of that applicant's application for the rezoning action, campaign contributions aggregating $250.00 or more to a local government official who will consider the application, it shall be the duty of the applicant to file a disclosure report with the governing authority of the respective local government showing:
1.
The name and official position of the local government official to whom the campaign contribution was made; and
2.
The dollar amount and description of each campaign contribution made by the applicant to the local government official during the two years immediately preceding the filing of the application for the rezoning action and the date of each such contribution.
B.
The disclosures required by subsection (a) of this Code section shall be filed within ten days after the application for the rezoning action is first filed.
C.
When any opponent of a rezoning action has made, within two years immediately preceding the filing of the rezoning action being opposed, campaign contributions aggregating $250.00 or more to a local government official of the local government which will consider the application, it shall be the duty of the opponent to file a disclosure with the governing authority of the respective local government showing:
1.
The name and official position of the local government official to whom the campaign contribution was made; and
2.
The dollar amount and description of each campaign contribution made by the opponent to the local government official during the two years immediately preceding the filing of the application for the rezoning action and the date of each such contribution.
D.
The disclosure required by subsection (c) of this Code section shall be filed at least five calendar days prior to the first hearing by the local government or any of its agencies on the rezoning application.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
