Chapter 10 - BUSINESSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local taxes and fees, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I; business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-001—10-018. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Sec. 10-019. - Financial institutions business license tax.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is hereby levied for the year 1984, and for each year thereafter, an annual business license tax upon state and national banking associations, federal savings and loan associations and state building and loan associations a business license tax at the rate of 25 percent of the gross receipts of said institutions as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, the minimum amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to the ordinance shall be $1,000.00 per year.
(Prior Code, § 19-001)
Sec. 10-020. - Due date; filling of return.
Each depository financial institution within the city shall file a return of its gross receipts with the city on March 1st of the year following the year in which such gross receipts were measured. Said returns shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of banking and shall be based upon the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The tax levied pursuant to this section shall be assessed and collected based upon the information provided in said return. The due date for taxes levied by this section shall be April 1st of each year.
(Prior Code, § 19-002)
Secs. 10-021—10-043. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OCCUPATION TAX

Sec. 10-044. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
A.
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations within the corporate limits of the city or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the full-time equivalent employees of the business or profession.
B.
Occupation tax schedule. The occupation tax schedule is as established from time to time. It is on file at city administrative offices.
(Prior Code, § 19-003)
Sec. 10-045. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the city shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Prior Code, § 19-004)
Sec. 10-046. - Number of businesses considered operating in the city.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of the occupation tax assessed herein.
(Prior Code, § 19-005)
Sec. 10-047. - Professional as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18).
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1) through (18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
1.
The occupation tax based on the number of employees.
2.
A fee as determined from time to time by ordinance per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(Prior Code, § 19-006)
Sec. 10-048. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Prior Code, § 19-007)
Sec. 10-049. - Purpose and scope.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 19-008)
Sec. 10-050. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
A.
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year unless otherwise specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by March 31 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession, trade, or calling begun in the city, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon the beginning of the business and a ten percent penalty imposed. The tax registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city clerk and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty is to obtain a registration shall, after said registration or occupation tax become delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any kind of profession, trade, or calling subject to this article without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall, upon conviction by the judge, shall be punished pursuant to the general penalty in section 1-008.
B.
In addition to the above remedies, the chief of police may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Prior Code, § 19-009)
Sec. 10-051. - Exemption on grounds that business operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax levied by this article shall be exempt from said registration or tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 50 percent or more of the entire proceeds from said business are devoted to such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 19-010)
Sec. 10-052. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
A.
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city registration may be issued.
B.
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Prior Code, § 19-011)
Sec. 10-053. - Evidence of qualification required.
Any business that is required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualifications, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of city business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Prior Code, § 19-012)
Sec. 10-054. - Liability of offices and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for said business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain registration. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting or offering to transact in the city, any of the kinds of business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having so obtained said registration, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(Prior Code, § 19-013)
Sec. 10-055. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
A.
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained otherwise specially provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all tax and fees as provided herein before March 31 each year, and on March 31 each year hereafter. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the city any business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having obtained said registration shall be subject to penalties. Said penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal herein provided; and may be collected by the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
B.
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city clerk in the city, and if any person, firm or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said occupation tax comes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any kind of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Prior Code, § 19-014)
Sec. 10-056. - Business not covered by this article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of the tax pursuant to be provisions of other general laws of the state or local law:
1.
Those businesses by the state public service commission.
2.
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. title 46, ch. 3.
3.
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
4.
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
5.
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
6.
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
7.
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
8.
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state of the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
9.
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
10.
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Prior Code, § 19-016)
Sec. 10-057. - Payment of occupation tax by newly established business.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the corporate limits of the city in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees to be employed.
(Prior Code, § 19-017)
Sec. 10-058. - Reserved.
Sec. 10-059. - Filing of return showing number of employees.
On or before November 1 of each year, the owner, manager or executive officer of the business liable for said occupation tax levied for the year shall file with the city clerk, on a form furnished by the city, a signed return setting forth the average number of yearly employees (full-time or full-time equivalent) of such business during the preceding calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 19-019)
Sec. 10-060. - Inspection of books and records.
In any case, the mayor and council of the city, through its officers, agents, employees or representatives, may inspect the books of the business or person for which the returns are made. The tax clerk shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the city and upon demand of the mayor and the council such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the city within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the tax registration currently existing to do business in the city. Adequate records shall be kept in the city for examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of underreporting; a penalty of one percent per month of the amount of the deficiency shall be assessed for the period of delinquency.
(Prior Code, § 19-020)
Sec. 10-061. - Tax registration to be revoked for failure to pay tax.
Upon the failure of any business to pay said occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, any business type tax registration granted by the city under this article permitting owner of said business to do business in the city for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the city for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation herein provided for is at that time unpaid. In the case of those practitioners where local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct its business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(Prior Code, § 19-021)
Sec. 10-062. - Amendment, repeal of provision.
This article shall be subject to amendment or appeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or appeal shall be construed to deny the right of the mayor and council of the city to assesses and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Said amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the city of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property or business.
(Prior Code, § 19-022)
Sec. 10-063. - Requirement of public hearing before tax increase.
The mayor and council of the city shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation taxes.
(Prior Code, § 19-023)
Sec. 10-064. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in occupation.
The council may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of business or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or for attracting or encouraging selected types of business or practitioners of selected occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of a regular meeting of the mayor and council of the city.
(Prior Code, § 19-024)
Sec. 10-065. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that specific shall control.
(Prior Code, § 19-025)
Secs. 10-066—10-088. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - INSURANCE

Sec. 10-089. - Insurance license fee.
There is hereby levied for each year an annual license fee upon insurer doing business within the city in the amount determined from time to time by state law. For each separate business location in excess of one which is operating on behalf on such insurers within the city, there is hereby levied a license fee in an amount as determined from time to time by state law. For the purposes of this article, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(Prior Code, § 19-027)
Sec. 10-090. - License fees insuring certain risks at additional business locations.
From each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance said insurer shall pay an additional license fee as determined from time to time by state law per location for the year.
(Prior Code, § 19-028)
Sec. 10-091. - Insurers agency license fees; independent insurance agencies, brokers, etc., not otherwise licensed.
There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location for which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by section 10-089 hereof in an amount as determined from time to time by state law for each such location within the city.
(Prior Code, § 19-029)
Sec. 10-092. - Gross premium tax imposed on life insurers.
There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the state in the amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums", as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 10-089.
(Prior Code, § 19-030)
Sec. 10-093. - Gross premium tax, all other insurers.
There is herby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business within the state in an equal amount to 2&frac12 percent of the gross direct premiums as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 10-089.
(Prior Code, § 19-031)
Sec. 10-094. - Due date for license fees.
License fees imposed in sections 10-089 and 10-090 shall be payable on the first date of each year.
(Prior Code, § 19-032)
Secs. 10-095—10-116. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND CANVASSERS

Sec. 10-117. - Solicitor's permits required; application, investigation.
No person except duly organized charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit within the city without first having obtained a permit from the mayor and council after making written application to the mayor and council stating the nature and purpose of such solicitation. The city may appoint any person to investigate and advise the mayor and council as to the necessity or need for said permit.
(Prior Code, § 23-001)
Sec. 10-118. - Denial or issuance of solicitor's permits, violations.
Upon authorization, after due hearing, the mayor and council has the right to grant or refuse a solicitor's permit. Should said permit be refused and such a person or persons solicit after refusal of said permit, it shall be a violation of this Code. Each solicitation shall be a separate and distinct offense and punishable as such in the recorder's court.
(Prior Code, § 23-002)
Secs. 10-119—10-181. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - TAXICABS

Sec. 10-182. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Permit means the written authority granted authority granted by the mayor and council of the city under this article to engage in the taxicab business in the city, as said business is defined by provisions of this article.
Person includes any individual, a firm, a co-partnership, corporation, company or association of joint stock association.
Streets or public streets means any public streets, boulevards, avenues, drives or alleys in the city.
Taxicab is hereby declared and defined to be any motor driven vehicle for transportation for hire of passengers and which is operated wholly or principally within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 39-010)
Sec. 10-183. - Scope of regulations.
The operating of taxicabs within the city shall be subject to the conditions, regulations, and restrictions hereafter set forth, and it shall be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated in the city any taxicab unless a permit for the operation thereof shall have first been issued by said mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 39-011)
Sec. 10-184. - Permit required.
No taxicab shall be operated on the streets of the city unless and until the mayor and council has issued a permit for the operation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 39-012)
Sec. 10-185. - Application for permit.
Application for permits shall be made to the mayor and council by a petition which shall set forth the name, address and place of business of the applicant if an individual, and if a partnership the name and business of said partnership, and if a corporation, the trade name under which an applicant does or promises to do business, the name of the insurance company or surety company with applicant has made arrangements to secure his insurance or surety bond as required by this article, and also a financial statement of said company and such other information as may be required by the mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 39-013)
Sec. 10-186. - Investigation and action on application.
A.
The mayor and council shall make or cause to be made an investigation including any hearing deemed necessary as to each application or permit for the taxicabs, and in determining whether a permit shall issue, the mayor and council may investigate the fitness of the applicant to engage in the business of operating taxicabs and also shall make or cause to be made an investigation in order to determine whether the demands of public convenience, necessity and safety justify the issuance of such a permit.
B.
Each and every applicant for a taxi license shall and will be carefully considered by the mayor and city council, and after careful consideration of all the facts and circumstances, any and all applications, in the discretion of the authority aforesaid, they will then grant or deny the applicant a license.
(Prior Code, § 39-014)
Sec. 10-187. - Issuance or denial of permit; transferability.
If the mayor and council determines to grant a permit for the operation of such a taxicab he shall issue the applicant a permit herein provided for, and such permit shall not be transferable except upon the consent of the mayor and the council in writing. If the mayor and council finds and decides that the public convenience, necessity and safety does not justify the issuance of said permit, or that the insurance company or surety company in which applicant has made arrangements to secure insurance as required by the provisions of the proposed policy or surety bond do not give ample protection to the public, or that the application is not a fit and proper person to conduct the taxicab business, then no permit shall be issued, and notice of the action of the mayor and council shall be given to the applicant, setting forth the reason for the refusal of said permit.
(Prior Code, § 39-015)
Sec. 10-188. - Insurance or bond required.
It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, driver or chauffeur of any taxicab to drive or operate the same on the streets of said city unless such owner, operator, driver, or chauffeur shall have first procured and filed with the mayor and council a liability insurance policy, issued by a good and responsible insurance company, or surety bond issued by a good and responsible surety company, which said insurance company or surety company must have authority to do business in the state, and possessed of a certificate duly issued by the state, and must have an agent in the city, which said insurance company or surety company must have approved by the mayor and council. The amount of liability insurance or surety bond for each taxicab shall be an amount not less than $25,000.00 for each bodily injury, and $50,000.00 total for each accident, and $25,000.00 for property damage for each accident. In event of conflict between this section and state law concerning minimum monetary limits for automobile liability insurance under state law, state law shall control. Said policy of insurance or surety bond may be in form of a separate policy or separate surety bond for each taxicab, or may be in the form of a "fleet policy" covering all taxicabs operated by such owner, driver or chauffeur, in which latter event said policy of insurance or surety bond shall provide the same liability for each taxicab operated. Every taxicab while in service shall have conspicuously placed therein some sign evidencing the fact that the provisions of this section have been complied with, the form thereof to be prescribed by said mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 39-016)
Sec. 10-189. - Notice required to cancel insurance or bond.
No policy of insurance or surety bond as hereinbefore provided shall be cancelled until the expiration of ten days notice of intended cancellation thereof has been given in writing to the mayor and council by registered mail or personal delivery of said notice and a provision therefore shall be made a part of said policy or surety bond.
(Prior Code, § 39-017)
Sec. 10-190. - Using cab for illegal purposes.
It shall be unlawful for any driver or any taxicab operated in the city to permit any person to accompany or use such taxicab for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or other illegal purpose, or to direct, take or transport, or to offer or agree to direct, take or transport any other person with the knowledge or reasonable cause to believe the purpose of directing, taking or transporting, is for prostitution, lewdness or other illegal purpose.
(Prior Code, § 39-018)
Sec. 10-191. - Maximum work day for driver.
It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of any taxicab to drive or operate said taxicab for more than 16 hours in one 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 39-019)
Sec. 10-192. - Dome light required on cabs.
It shall be unlawful for any taxicab to be driven or operated upon the streets of the city unless the same is equipped with a dome light across the top of the taxicab with the word "taxi" written thereon that can be seen in daytime and lighted in night.
(Prior Code, § 39-020)
Sec. 10-193. - Notice of violations required.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to notify the mayor and council of any and all violations of any ordinances by any taxicab operator or chauffeur.
(Prior Code, § 39-021)
Sec. 10-194. - Business license required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to carry on, engage in or conduct the business of operating a taxicab or taxicabs for the transportation of persons within the limits of the city without first having obtained a license from the city as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 39-022)
Sec. 10-195. - Business license tax.
An annual license tax for each taxicab is hereby levied upon and shall be collected from and paid by every person, firm or corporation, carrying on, engaging in, or conducting the business of operating a taxicab or taxicabs for the transportation of the persons within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 39-023)
Sec. 10-196. - Suspension, revocation of taxicab permit.
Whenever any person, firm or corporation engaged in the taxicab business or any operator or driver of any taxicab within the city is found to be violating the provisions of this article or the laws of the state, or any other law of the city the chief of police, upon complaint, or upon his own motion, shall issue an order to said person, firm or corporation, operator or driver, to appear at a fixed time and place for investigation and if the mayor and council shall be satisfied, after hearing of the violation, or of the laws of the city, or the state, or any other terms of the permit issued, the mayor and council may suspend for a fixed period in its discretion, or in its discretion revoke the permit issued.
(Prior Code, § 39-024)
Sec. 10-197. - Alcoholic beverages prohibited in taxicabs.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation engaged in the taxicab business in the city to have, cause to be had, or permit to be had in any taxicab any quantity of malt, vinous, intoxicating, spirituous, or alcoholic liquors, whether the tax on the same has been paid or not, and the owner of any taxicab in which is found any quantity of such liquors or beverages shall be liable to the same extent as if he, the owner, were in actual possession of such liquors and beverages at such time; provided, that if such liquors are found in any such taxicab both owner and operator of same shall be jointly guilty. This provision with reference to such liquors and beverages shall not apply if such liquors are found on the person of the passenger in such taxicab who is actually riding as a fare-paying passenger, and who is not an employee of the owner of such taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 39-025)
Sec. 10-198. - Procedure when alcoholic beverage found in taxicab.
If any liquors and beverages defined in section 10-197 shall be found in any taxicab used for the purpose of transporting passengers for hire, whether or not same is actually in use at such time for such purpose, the city clerk shall issue a rule to show cause, bearing test in the name of the mayor of the city, requiring the owner of such taxicab to appear at a hearing before the mayor and council at such time and place as shall be stated in said rule; thereupon the mayor and council shall hear evidence as to the issue involved, and if it shall be determined that there has been a violation of this section, the license of such taxicab owner shall immediately be revoked and no other license shall be issued to him to engage in said business until the expiration of year from the date of the revocation of such license. In the event such license is revoked, no refund shall be made by said city on the license issued to such offender.
(Prior Code, § 39-026)
Secs. 10-199—10-219. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT

Sec. 10-220. - Definitions.
The following terms used in this article defining adult entertainment establishments shall have the meaning as indicated below:
Adult bookstore means an establishment having a substantial portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such materials or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed materials which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual or specified anatomical areas.
Adult dancing establishment means a business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Adult mini-motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of less than ten persons used to commercially present material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult motion picture arcade means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coins or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of ten or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult video store means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, video tapes or movies or other reproductions, whether for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material or which derives more then five percent of its net sale from videos which are characterized or distinguished by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Alcoholic beverages means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Erotic dance establishment means a nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Escort bureau; introduction services means any business, agency or persons who for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit, furnished or offer to furnish names of persons, or who introduce, furnish or arrange for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarter.
Good moral character means according to this article if that person has not been convicted of a felony, or any crime not a felony involving moral turpitude, in the past five years. The city may also take into account such other factors as are necessary to determine the good moral character of the applicant or employee. Conviction shall include pleas of nolo contendere or bond forfeiture when charged with such crime.
Minor means, for the purpose of this article, any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Specified anatomical areas shall include any of the following:
1.
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region, buttock, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
2.
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activities means and includes any of the following:
1.
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
2.
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
3.
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or masturbation;
4.
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breasts;
5.
Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or in the infliction of pain;
6.
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being; or
7.
Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
(Prior Code, § 5-001)
Sec. 10-221. - Erotic dance establishment regulations.
A.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall advertise or cause to be advertised an erotic dance establishment without a valid adult entertainment establishment license. Said license fee shall be as determined from time to time by ordinance.
B.
No later than March 1 of each year, an erotic dance establishment licensee shall file a verified report with the license officer showing the licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to the dancers, as well as a list of current employees for the proceeding calendar year.
C.
An erotic dance establishment licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of two years the names, addresses and ages of all persons employed as dancers.
D.
No adult entertainment establishment licensee shall employ or contract with as a dancer a person under the age of 18 years or a person not licensed pursuant to this article.
E.
No person under the age of 18 years shall be admitted to an adult entertainment establishment.
F.
An erotic dance establishment may be open only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday and not open at all on Sunday. No licensee shall permit his place of business to open on Christmas Day.
G.
No erotic dance establishment licensee shall serve, sell, distribute or suffer the consumption or possession of any alcoholic beverages or controlled substance upon the premises of the licensee.
H.
An adult entertainment establishment shall conspicuously display all licenses required by this article.
I.
All dancing shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose which is raised at least two feet from the level of the floor.
J.
No dancing shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron.
K.
No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron, and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer.
L.
No patron shall directly pay or give gratuity to any dancer.
M.
No dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
N.
All areas of an establishment licensed hereunder shall be fully lighted at all times patrons are present. Full lighting shall mean illumination equal to 3 5/10 foot candles per square foot.
O.
If any portion or subsection of this article or its application to any person or circumstances is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of application to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.
(Prior Code, § 5-002)
Sec. 10-222. - Certain activities prohibited.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall publicly display or expose or suffer the public display or exposure or suffer the public display or exposure, with less than a full opaque covering, of any portion of person's genitals, pubic area or buttocks in a lewd and obscene fashion.
(Prior Code, § 5-003)
Sec. 10-223. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, association, partnership or corporation to engage in, conduct or carry on in or upon any premises within the city any of the adult entertainment establishments defined in this article without a license to do so. The fee for the license shall be as determined from time to time by ordinance, to be renewed annually. Licensee must make application yearly prior to expiration of current years license. No permit so issued shall condone or make legal any activity thereunder if the same is deemed illegal or unlawful under the laws of the state or the United States.
(Prior Code, § 5-004)
Sec. 10-224. - Operation of unlicensed premises unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult mini-motion picture theater, adult hotel or motel, adult motion picture arcade, cabaret, encounter center, escort bureau or adult business or adult dancing establishment unless such business shall have a currently valid license, or shall have made proper application for renewal within the time required thereof under this article, which license shall not be under suspension or permanently or conditionally revoked.
(Prior Code, § 5-005)
Sec. 10-225. - Admissions of minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to admit or permit the admissions of minors within a licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-006)
Sec. 10-226. - Sales to minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter or give or to offer to sell, barter or give to any minor any service, material, device or thing sold or offered for sale by an adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult massage parlor or adult dancing establishment or other adult entertainment facility.
(Prior Code, § 5-007)
Sec. 10-227. - Adult entertainment establishment employees.
A.
Qualifications. Employees of an adult entertainment establishment shall be not less than 18 years of age. Every employee must be of good moral character as defined in this article. Any employee who is convicted of a crime constituting a felony or a crime not a felony involving moral turpitude while employed as an adult entertainment establishment employee shall not thereafter work on any licensed premises for a period of five years from the date of such conviction, unless a longer time is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. The term "convicted" shall include an adjudication of guilt on a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime, and the terms "employed on the licensed premises" and "work on any licensed premises" shall include, as well, work done or services performed while in the scope of employment elsewhere than on the licensed premises.
B.
Approval for employment. Before any person may work on a licensed premises, he shall file notice with the licensing officer of his intended employment on forms supplied by the licensing officer and shall receive approval of such employment from the licensing officer. The prospective employee shall supply such information as the licensing officer requires, as well as an investigation fee as determined from time to time by ordinance. Prospective employees must submit to a set of fingerprints on regular city or United States department of justice forms to be taken by the city police department. Upon approval, the employee may begin working on the licensed premises. If approval is denied, the prospective employee may, within ten days of such denial, apply to the licensing officer for a hearing. The decision of the licensing officer after hearing may be appealed to which may issue such order as is proper in the premises. An investigation fee as determined from time to time by ordinance, shall accompany the notice of intended employment or a receipt of the licensing officer evidencing the payment of such fee at the time the notice is filed.
C.
Suspension, revocation of license. Violation of the provisions of this Code, the ordinances of the city laws and regulations of the state, or rules and regulations of the county shall subject employee to suspension or revocation of license.
D.
Independent contractors. For the purpose of this article, independent contractors shall be considered as employees and shall be licensed as employees, regardless of the business relations with the owner or license of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Prior Code, § 5-008)
Sec. 10-228. - Application for license.
A.
Any person, association, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation desiring to obtain a license to operate, engage in, conduct or carry on any adult entertainment establishment shall make application and a non-refundable fee as determined from time to time by ordinance to be paid to the clerk to defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required in this section. The city clerk shall issue a receipt showing that such application fee has been paid. The receipt or a copy thereof shall be supplied to the licensing officer at the time such application is submitted.
B.
Application is not a license. The application for a license does not authorize the engaging in, operation of or carrying on of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Prior Code, § 5-009)
Sec. 10-229. - Application contents.
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment permit shall contain the following information:
1.
The full true name and any other names or aliases used by the applicant;
2.
The present address and telephone number of the applicant;
3.
The previous addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant and the dates of residence at each address for the past five years;
4.
Acceptable written proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age, such as a birth certificate or driver's license;
5.
The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair and date and place of birth;
6.
Two photographs of the applicant at least two inches by two inches taken within the last six months;
7.
Occupation of employment history and/or business history of the applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of application. Business or employment records of the applicant, partners in a partnership, directors and officers of a corporation and, if a corporation, all shareholders holding more than five percent of the shares of corporate stock outstanding;
8.
The business license history of the applicant and whether such applicant, in previous operations in this or any other city, state or territory under license, has had such license or permit for an adult entertainment business or similar type of business revoked or suspended, the reason therefore, and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation;
9.
All convictions, including ordinance violation, exclusive of traffic violations, stating the dates and places of any such convictions;
10.
If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter, together with the place and date of incorporation, and the names and addresses of each of its current officers and directors, and each stockholder holding more than five percent of the stock in the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant shall set forth the name, residence address and dates of birth of the partners, including limited partners. If the applicant is a limited partnership, it shall furnish a copy of its certificate of limited partnership to be filed with the city clerk. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this subsection pertaining to corporations shall apply. The applicant corporation or partnership shall designate one of its officers or general partners to act as its reasonable managing officer. Such designated persons shall complete and sign all application forms required of an individual applicant under this article, but only one application fee shall be charged;
11.
The names and addresses of the owner and lessor of the rental property upon which the business is to be conducted and a copy of the lease or rental agreement;
12.
Such other identification and information as the police department may require in order to discover the truth of the matters hereinbefore specified as required to be set forth in the application;
13.
The age and date of birth of the applicant, of any partners, or of any and all officers, of any stockholders of more than five percent of the shares of the corporation stock outstanding, directors of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation;
14.
If the applicant, any partners or any of the officers or stockholders holding more than five percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation, or the directors of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation, have ever been convicted of any crime constituting a felony, or any crime not a felony involving moral turpitude, in the past five years and if so, a complete description of any such crime, including date of violation, date of conviction, jurisdiction and any disposition, including any fine or sentence imposed and whether terms of disposition have been fully completed;
15.
The city shall require the individual applicant to be fingerprinted by the city police department;
16.
If the applicant is a person doing business under a trade name, a copy of the trade name properly recorded. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of authority to do business in the state, including articles of incorporation, trade name affidavit, if any, last annual report, if any;
17.
At least three character references from individuals who are in no way related to the applicant or individual shareholders, officers or directors of a corporation and who are not or will not benefit financially in any way from the application if the license is granted and who have not been convicted of any felony or a municipal code violation involving moral turpitude in the past five years. The licensing officer shall prepare forms consistent with the provisions of this subsection for the applicant, who shall submit all character references on such forms;
18.
Address of the premises to be licenses;
19.
Whether the premises are owned or rented and, if the applicant has a right to legal possession of the premises, copies of those documents giving such legal right;
20.
A plat by a registered engineer, licensed by the state, showing the location of the proposed premises in relation to the neighborhood, the surrounding zoning, its proximity to any church, school, public park, governmental building or site or other business hereunder regulated;
21.
Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license shall be verified and acknowledged under oath to be true and correct by:
a.
If the applicant is an individual, the individual;
b.
If by a partnership, by the manager or general partner;
c.
If a corporation, by the president of the corporation;
d.
If any other organization or association, by the chief administrative official.
(Prior Code, § 5-010)
Sec. 10-230. - Applicant to appear.
The applicant, if an individual, or designated responsible manager officer, if a partnership or corporation, shall personally appear at the office of the city clerk and produce proof that a nonrefundable application fee, as determined from time to time by ordinance, has been paid and shall present the application containing the aforementioned and described information.
(Prior Code, § 5-011)
Sec. 10-231. - Application; investigation.
The city shall have 30 days to investigate the application and the background of the applicant. Upon completion of the investigation, the city council may grant the license if it finds:
1.
The required fee has been paid;
2.
The application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this article;
3.
The applicant has not knowingly made a material misrepresentation in the application;
4.
The applicant has fully cooperated in the investigation of his application;
5.
The applicant, if an individual, or any of the stockholders of the corporation, any officers or directors, if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership, has not been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of an offense involving conduct or convicted in any state of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as one or more of the above-mentioned offenses, or any crime involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude;
6.
The applicant has not had an adult entertainment establishment license or other similar license or permit denied or revoked for cause by this city or any other city or county located in or out of this state prior to the date of application;
7.
The building, structure, equipment or location of such business as proposed by the applicant would comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to health, zoning, distance, fire and safety requirements and standards;
8.
The applicant is at least 18 years of age;
9.
That the applicant, his employee, agent, partner, director, officer, stockholder or manager has not, within five years of the date of the application, knowingly allowed or permitted any of the specified sexual activities as defined herein to be committed or allowed in or upon the premises where such adult entertainment establishment is to be located or to be used as a place in which solicitations for the specified sexual activities as defined herein openly occur;
10.
That on the date the business for which a license is required herein commences, and thereafter, there will be a responsible person on the premises to act as manager at all times during which the business is open;
11.
That the proposed premises is not located in the prohibited proximity to any church, school, library, governmental building or site or any other business restricted hereunder:
a.
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land which is zoned or used for residential purposes;
b.
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, school, governmental building, library, civic center, public park or playground is located:
i.
That the grant of such license will not cause a violation of this article or any other ordinance or regulations of the city, county, state or the United States.
ii.
Any other inquiry deemed necessary or desirable by the city to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city or the preservation of its neighborhoods.
(Prior Code, § 5-012)
Sec. 10-232. - Persons prohibited as licensees.
No license provided for by this article shall be issued or held by:
1.
An applicant who has not paid all required fees, or property taxes and taxes for a business at that location;
2.
Any person who is not of good moral character, as defined herein;
3.
Any corporation, any of whose officers, directors or stockholders holding over five percent of the outstanding issued shares of capital stock are not of good moral character, as defined herein;
4.
Any partnership or association, any of whose offices or members holding more than five percent interest therein are not of good moral character, as defined herein;
5.
Any person employing, assisted by or financed in whole or in part by any person who is not of good moral character, as defined herein;
6.
Any applicant who is not qualified to hold and conduct a business according to the laws of the United States, the state, the city or the county.
Should there be a sufficient number of current licenses to meet the needs and desires of the inhabitants of the city, no new licenses shall be issued. In determining the needs and desires of the inhabitants, the standard of review shall be that the market is virtually unrestrained as defined in Young v. American Mini Theaters, Inc.
(Prior Code, § 5-013)
Sec. 10-233. - License—Refusal; appeal.
If the city, following investigation of the applicant, deems that the applicant does not fulfill the requirements as set forth in this article, it shall notify the management services director of such opinion and, within 30 days of the date of application, provide copies of the investigation report to the management services director. The management services director shall, within ten days, notify the applicant by certified mail of such a denial. Any applicant who is denied a permit may appeal such denial to the city council.
(Prior Code, § 5-014)
Sec. 10-234. - Same—Renewal.
Licenses for adult entertainment establishments may be renewed on a year to year basis provided that the licensees continued to meet the requirements set out in this article. All licenses must be renewed by December 31 of each year. The renewal fees for the adult entertainment establishment license shall be as determined from time to time by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-015)
Sec. 10-235. - Same—Nontransferable.
No adult entertainment establishment license may be sold, transferred or assigned by a licensee, or by operation of law, to any other person or persons. Any such sale, transfer or assignment or attempted sale, transfer or assignment shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such license, and such permit shall thereafter be null and void provided and excepting, however, that if the licensee is a partnership and one or more of the partners should die, one or more of the surviving partners may acquire, by purchase or otherwise, the interest of the deceased partner or partners without effecting a surrender or termination of such license, and in such case the license, upon notification to the city, shall be placed in the name of the surviving partner. An adult entertainment establishment license issued to a corporation shall be deemed terminated and void when either any outstanding stock of the corporation is sold, transferred or assigned after the issuance of a license or any stock authorized but not issued at the time of the granting of a permit is thereafter issued or sold, transferred or assigned.
(Prior Code, § 5-016)
Sec. 10-236. - Change of location or name.
A.
No adult entertainment establishment shall move from the location specified on its license until a change of location fee, established by resolution of the city council has been deposited with the city and approval has been obtained from the management services director and the zoning department. Such approval shall not be given unless all requirements and regulations as contained in the city code have been met.
B.
No licensee shall operate, conduct, manage, engage in or carry on an adult entertainment establishment under any name other than his name and the name of the business as specified on his license.
C.
Any application for an extension or expansion of a building or other place of business where an adult entertainment establishment is located shall require inspection and shall comply with the provisions and regulations of this article.
(Prior Code, § 5-017)
Sec. 10-237. - Appeal—Procedure.
A.
The licensee shall, within ten days after he has received notification of an adverse determination, submit notice of appeal to the management services director.
B.
The notice of appeal shall be addressed to the city council and shall specify the subject matter of the appeal, the date of any original and amended application or requests, the date of the adverse decision (or receipt of notice thereof), the basis of the appeal, the action requested of the city council and the name and address of the applicant.
C.
The management services director shall place the appeal on the agenda of the next regular city council meeting occurring not less than five nor more than 30 days after receipt of the application for city council action.
(Prior Code, § 5-018)
Sec. 10-238. - Same—Council determine procedure.
When an appeal is placed on the city council agenda, the council may take either of the following actions:
1.
Set a hearing date and instruct the management services director to give such notice of hearing as may be required by law;
2.
Appoint a hearing office and fix the time and place for hearing. The hearing officer may or may not be a city employee and may be appointed for an extended period of time. The management services director shall assume responsibility for such publication of notice of the hearing as may be required by law. If a hearing officer is appointed, the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set out in this article.
(Prior Code, § 5-019)
Sec. 10-239. - City council hearing.
When the management services director has scheduled an appeal before the city council, at the time and date set therefore, the council shall receive all relevant testimony and evidence from the licensee, from interested parties and from city staff. The city council may sustain, overrule or modify the action complained of. The action of the city council shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 5-020)
Sec. 10-240. - Powers of hearing officer.
The hearing officer appointed pursuant to the procedure set out in this article may receive and rule on admissibility of evidence, hear testimony under oath and call witnesses as he may deem advisable with respect to the conduct of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 5-021)
Sec. 10-241. - Rules of evidence inapplicable.
The city council and the hearing officer shall not be bound by the traditional rules of evidence in hearings conducted under this article. Rules of evidence as applied in an administrative hearing shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 5-022)
Sec. 10-242. - Hearing officers—Report.
A.
The hearing officer shall, within a reasonable time not to exceed 30 days from the date such hearing is terminated, submit a written report to the board. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and state findings, conclusions and recommendations. All such reports shall be filed with the management services director and shall be considered public records. A copy of such report shall be forwarded by certified mail to the licensee/appellant the same day it is filed with the management services director, with addition copies furnished to the police department.
B.
The management services director shall place the hearing officer's report on the agenda of the next regular board meeting occurring not less than 15 days after the report is filed and shall notify the licensee/appellant of the date of such meeting at least ten days prior to the meeting unless the licensee/appellant stipulates to a shorter notice period.
(Prior Code, § 5-023)
Sec. 10-243. - Same—Action of city council.
The city council may adopt or reject the hearing officer's decision in its entirety or may modify the proposed recommendation. If the board does not adopt the hearing officer's recommendation, it may:
1.
Refer the matter to the same or another hearing officer for a completely new hearing or for taking of additional evidence of specific points, in either of such cases, the hearing officer shall proceed as provided in this article.
2.
Decide the case upon a review of the entire record before the hearing officer with or without taking additional evidence.
(Prior Code, § 5-024)
Sec. 10-244. - Violations; penalty.
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed an amount as determined from time to time by ordinance per violation or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. In addition to such fine or imprisonment, violation of this article shall also be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of the license issued hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5-025)
Sec. 10-245. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any adult entertainment establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article shall be and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The city may, in addition to or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence an action or actions, proceeding or proceedings for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such adult entertainment establishment, and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining an adult entertainment establishment contrary to the provisions of this article. In addition, violation of the provisions of this article shall be per se grounds for suspension or revocation of a license granted hereunder. Such suspension or revocation could possibly be deemed permanent.
(Prior Code, § 5-026)
Secs. 10-246—10-269. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS

Sec. 10-270. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Auction means the sale of real or personal property, or both, in which the sale price of the property offered is increased by competitive bids, regardless of the method, until the highest accepted bidder becomes the purchaser.
Consignment means any transaction where a person places goods into the custody of another but retains ownership until the goods are sold or legally transferred.
Pawnbroker any transaction wherein there is the lending of money secured by taking possession of jewelry, wearing apparel, household goods or other personal property, with interest charged thereon, shall be regulated according to all laws and legal guidelines set forth by the State of Georgia or federal laws, regulations and/or guidelines set forth by the United States government.
Refusal, revocation or suspension for just cause means, but is not limited to, a person, firm or corporation who has been previously convicted of any felony, any theft, fraud, receiving stolen property, drug offense in this state or any other state or territory of the United States or violation of this ordinance or any other provision as required by the City of Butler.
Second-hand dealer means any person, firm, partnership or corporation whose business is the retail buying, selling, buy-back, exchange, dealing in or dealing with second hand articles, including, but not limited to, jewelry, watches, precious stones, gems, gold, silver, other precious metals, musical instruments and equipment, cameras, furs, small collectibles, home and auto equipment, televisions, video equipment, tolls, computers, computer equipment, firearms, auto accessories and other collectible items.
(Ord. of 11-12-2013, § II)
Sec. 10-271. - Licensing procedure.
A.
No person, firm, partnership, or corporation shall operate, conduct, or engage in business as a second-hand dealer/pawnbroker unless such person, firm, partnership, or corporation shall first obtain all the necessary licenses needed to operate within the state; nor
B.
Shall any person, firm, partnership, or corporation conduct business as a second-hand dealer/pawnbroker without obtaining the necessary business licenses from the City of Butler.
(Ord. of 11-12-2013, § III)
Sec. 10-272. - Purchasing from minors.
No second-hand dealer/pawnbroker, nor any person employed by a second-hand dealer/pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly purchase any aforementioned article from anyone under 18 years of age, knowing or having reason to believe him or her to be such, except when said minor is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian, who shall sign the transaction record in person before said dealer.
(Ord. of 11-12-2013, § IV)
Sec. 10-273. - Records, inspections, re-sale, changes, alterations.
A.
Every second-hand dealer/pawnbroker, upon the acquisition of any aforementioned article, shall prepare transaction records upon forms approved by the city, stating full name, ID number and current residence address of the seller, date of the transaction, and a full, accurate and detailed description (to include make, model and serial number) of each article. One copy of the transaction record shall be delivered to the police department before to close of normal business hours each week in which business is transacted.
B.
Positive identification in the form of an approved governmental photo ID shall be required of the seller and the type of identification used shall be noted on the dealer's record.
C.
Said dealer shall retain copies of the purchase records in his possession, which, together with any article listed therein, may be inspected at any time by any duly authorized peace officer during regular business hours while making all reasonable efforts not to disrupt the normal course of business.
D.
All transaction record shall be kept by said second-hand dealer/pawnbroker for a minimum period of one year.
E.
All items purchased or pawned shall remain on the premises during the waiting period; items will not be placed on the sales floor if the original owner of said product is still within his waiting period on pawned items.
(Ord. of 11-12-2013, § V)
Sec. 10-274. - Auction items.
Any items auctioned, whether in person or otherwise, will be conducted in accordance with the laws, rules and regulation within the state.
(Ord. of 11-12-2013, § VI)
Sec. 10-275. - Removal of articles by duly appointed peace officers.
A.
If the police department or any other duly appointed law enforcement officer determines that an article is needed for evidence in a criminal investigation, said officer shall seize that evidence pursuant to applicable criminal procedures. The second-hand dealer/pawnbroker shall be issued a receipt for the article.
B.
Pursuant to state regulations regarding the rules of evidence, the aforementioned duly appointed peace officer and or agency shall keep seized articles under the court's direction as long as necessary to permit the article to be used as evidence. At the conclusion of all court proceedings or closure of the criminal investigation the aforementioned officer and/or agency shall notify the original owner, the second-hand dealer/pawnbroker, and any person who may have lawful interest that the property will be released within 30 calendar days to the original owner if no other claim is placed on the property.
(Ord. of 11-12-2013, § VII)
Sec. 10-276. - Penalties.
Any violation of this article shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or one year in prison.
(Ord. of 11-12-2013, § VIII)
