Chapter 28 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-001. - Littering prohibited.
No person shall place any garbage, rubbish, trash, paper or any litter of any kind whatsoever upon any street, sidewalk, alley, park, lane, or other public grounds of the city.
(Prior Code, § 29-001)
Sec. 28-002. - Obstructing ditches, drains.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to fill up any ditch or drain in any of the streets or alleys of the city or to purposely place any obstruction therein to prevent the free flow of water.
(Prior Code, § 29-002)
Sec. 28-003. - Obstructing streets, sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to convert any public street, sidewalk or alley in the city to his use, or place any obstruction in or upon them, or either or them such as wood, barrels and boxes, merchandise, timber or lumber, except necessarily for building purposes, and such obstruction shall be moved by the police or the street department at the expense of the owner or owners thereof or the person causing obstruction. Provided, however, that this section shall not prohibit the placing of goods, wares, merchandise, produce, boxes, barrels or other articles on the sidewalks within three feet from the wall of a building owned by the person placing such article.
(Prior Code, § 29-003)
Sec. 28-004. - Obstruction to vision at intersections.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge of any lot, parcel or piece of land within the city to allow any obstruction to vision in the triangle formed by the lines of two intersecting streets, or a street and an alley, and a line joining points of intersection by permitting any vegetation to grow or be maintained between the heights of three feet and ten feet above the grade of the center line of the intersection, or by construction or maintaining any fence or other structure which constitutes an obstruction to view within the triangle.
(Prior Code, § 29-004)
Sec. 28-005. - Street name signs—Changing without authority.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any sign designating street, avenue or other public place by a different name than that by which it is generally and legally known, or to refuse to remove the same from their property when requested to do so by an officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 29-005)
Sec. 28-006. - Same—Injuring or removing.
It shall be unlawful for any person willfully and maliciously to injure, deface or remove any of the street signs posted at or near the corner of the streets in the city.
(Prior Code, § 29-006)
Secs. 28-007—28-032. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCAVATIONS

Sec. 28-033. - Definitions.
The term "public place" as employed in this section shall be construed to mean a street, alley, sidewalk or other public property owned by the city or under its supervision.
(Prior Code, § 29-012)
Sec. 28-034. - Permit to excavate—Required.
A.
No person shall dig or excavate in any public place within the city or install, repair or replace any property or equipment in such public place, or do any other work in or on an public place, which requires the removal or breaking of the surface or under part of any such public place, unless and until such person shall first secure, in the manner provided in this chapter, permission to do so.
B.
If any person shall do any of the acts referred to in this section without first having secured permission to do so in the manner provided in this chapter, he shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in article I of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-013)
Sec. 28-035. - Same—Application.
Each person desiring permission to dig or excavate in any public place shall file with the city clerk a written or printed application, setting forth the character and location of such work to be done in any such public place, the probable number of square yards of surface to be removed and the probable date of beginning and the completion of the work.
(Prior Code, § 29-014)
Sec. 28-036. - Same—Fees and deposits.
In the event the application for the permit to excavate is qualified to perform the work himself, including replacing the street to its condition prior to the excavation, there shall be no charge for the insurance of the permit, If the city must fill and resurface the street or public way, the applicant shall deposit with the city at the time of the application, a sum of money which shall be fixed by the city engineer and shall be based on the cost per square yard of replacement plus ten percent.
(Prior Code, § 29-015)
Sec. 28-037. - Same—Grant or refusal.
Each application, as referred to in section 28-035 shall be delivered by the city clerk to the city engineer, who shall without unreasonable delay, either grant or reject such application. Upon rejection of the application, the applicant shall have the right to present the matter to the mayor and council, the deposit of money referred to in section 28-036 shall be returned to the person who deposited the same.
(Prior Code, § 29-016)
Sec. 28-038. - Failure to complete or restore.
Upon the failure of any person, whose application to dig or excavate shall have been granted and who shall have begun work, to complete the same without delay, or upon the completion of such work, to restore the public place to the same or as good a condition as the same was before such work done, or to comply with any reasonable rules or regulations of the city engineer from time to time given to such person for the completion and restoration of such public place, such person shall upon conviction, in addition to other penalties, forfeit to the city any deposit of money so made with the city clerk.
(Prior Code, § 29-017)
Sec. 28-039. - Restoration of city.
Upon the failure of any person to make such repairs as herein required in the manner or in the time required, the city engineer is empowered and authorized to cause such repairs to be made and such public place to be restored to its original condition, and the cost thereof, plus ten percent thereof, shall be charged to and paid by such person who failed to make such repairs, and such sum of money shall constitute and be a debt due from such person to the city.
(Prior Code, § 29-018)
Sec. 28-040. - Use or refund of deposit.
The deposit of money made under section 28-036 shall stand as a guarantee and may be employed by the city for the replacement of such public place in as good condition as the same was immediately before the excavation or digging, and upon default of the person so making such deposit to restore immediately the public place to as good condition as the same was immediately before such excavation or digging was done by him, the city engineer may employ the whole or any part of such deposit of money necessary for such restoration. Upon the restoration of the public place to such condition as the same was immediately before such digging or excavating, the city clerk shall, upon the certificate of the city engineer, restore to the person so making such deposit such sum of money so deposited, or in case any part thereof is employed by the city for such restoration of such public place, upon such certificate, the city clerk shall refund such part of such sum of money remaining.
(Prior Code, § 29-019)
Sec. 28-041. - Prompt work.
All digging or excavating to be done, as done, as provided in this article, shall be promptly started and completed without delay after permission shall have been granted, and such public place shall be, immediately upon the completion of such work, restored to the same or as good condition as the same was before such work was done thereon. Such work or restoration shall be at all times and in all respects in compliance with orders and supervision of the city engineer from time to time given to such person for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 29-020)
Sec. 28-042. - Warning devices; posting permit.
Upon the granting of an application for permission to dig or excavate in any public place, and in all other cases provided for in this chapter, it shall be the duty of the applicant, before beginning any such work, to enclose the place where such work is being done or otherwise afford adequate protection to street traffic. He shall post and keep posted at such place a placard showing that work is being done under permit granted by the city, with sufficient other information thereon to given ample warning to those using such public place that the same is out of repair or being repaired, and in addition thereto, he shall place sufficient markings at night by a red light, to notify those having the right to used the same that such a public place, or part thereof, is enclosed.
(Prior Code, § 29-021)
Sec. 28-043. - Decisions of mayor and council final.
Any controversy between the person making a deposit in order to dig or excavate in any public place and the city clerk or city engineer respecting any of the duties to be performed by any of them, may be submitted, the action of the mayor and council thereon shall be binding on all the parties.
(Prior Code, § 29-022)
Secs. 28-044—28-059. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ROAD ADDRESSING

Sec. 28-060. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose and intent of this article is to provide a uniform system of assigning addresses for all properties and buildings throughout the city in order to facilitate provision of adequate public safety and emergency response service, and to minimize difficulty in locating properties and buildings for public service agencies and the general public.
(Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 28-061. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Address program administrator means the official of the city charged with the administration of this article, including his authorized representative, the police chief or such person as may be designated by the city council, shall serve as the address program administrator.
Address program administrator assistant means the official of the city charged with assisting the address program administrator. The address program administrator assistant shall be the city clerk or such other person as designated by the city.
Building means a structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter of persons for residential or business use. When separated by division walls from the ground up without openings, each such enclosure may be deemed a separate building. Buildings without divisions, as described in the article, that are used as multifamily or multiuse facility may, at the discretion of the address program administrator, be assigned more than one address.
Concurrence means the mayor and council shall have the right to disapprove any action of the address program administrator by a majority vote. If the mayor and council shall fail to act within two regular meetings after the action of the address program administrator, the mayor and council shall be deemed to have concurred with the action.
Driveway means a private way, beginning at the property line of a lot abutting a public road, private road, easement or private right-of-way, and leading to a building, lot or physical location.
Private road means any one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or egress, serving two or more properties, but not for use by the general public.
Public road means any road, street, highway, thoroughfare, or other way of passage that has been irrevocably dedicated to the public or in which the public has acquired rights by prescription, without regard to whether it is open for travel.
Road address means the combination of numbers and road names assigned under the terms of this article which identifies a particular building, lot or other physical location.
(Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 28-062. - Administration and application.
The address program administrator and program assistant, with concurrence of the mayor and council will be responsible for interpretation and administration of the article including:
1.
Assigning all numbers for properties and buildings.
2.
Maintaining a database of addresses of each property and building.
3.
Designation of individuals unit addresses within multiple housing units in conformity with this article.
4.
Recommending to the mayor and council such changes to this article or the road name system as may be necessary to facilitate the perpetuation and efficiency of the address system.
(Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 28-063. - Display of road address numbers.
A.
Each location noted on the master address list for E911 shall be required to purchase an address sign as described herein. The city shall bill the residents or owner of the business the sum of $15.00 for each sign installed. The signs shall be installed on a metal post and metal sign with the display of official reflective address numbers so that they are clearly visible from the street or road on which the driveway to the property presents. The following criteria shall be used to properly display the numbers.
1.
Address numbers must meet the minimum size requirements indicated as follows:
a.
Post upon which they are mounted must bear reflective letters four inches in height.
b.
Residences and businesses, in the incorporated areas of the city must place a post bearing a six inch by 12 inch sign with white reflective address numbers four inches in height, and in immediate proximity to the driveway or private road that leads to such residence or business.
2.
Numbers for a multiple dwelling complex or nonresidential building shall be four inches in height and shall be placed on a post. Individual units within a multiple dwelling complex shall be required to display on a unit reflective numbers, which are four inches in height on the front door or immediately adjacent to the door.
3.
On corner lots, the house number shall face the street named in the address.
4.
The address program administrator and program assistant, with the concurrence of the mayor and council, will have the right to authorize and approve alternate methods of displaying numbers which meet the intent of the article when strict adherence to these standards cannot be met or impractical.
(Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 28-064. - Types of numbers.
The following two types of numbers are to be used under this article:
A.
A primary number is to be assigned to each street frontage of each improved property. The primary number must be posted on that property if the property is occupied by a dwelling unit; structure or active use and the owner, occupant or person in charge is notified.
B.
Secondary numbers may be used when a number of units, structures and uses coexist on the same parcel of land. Examples of secondary numbers include apartment projects, mobile home parks, office parks, planned unit developments, recreational vehicle parks, recreational areas, shopping centers and other uses where the use of secondary numbers would clarify the location of a unit or use for public safety purposes. To provide secondary numbers, the address program administrator shall work with the owner, manager or person in charge of the project to determine a logical numbering system.
(Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 28-065. - Roads.
Exempt and excluded structures:
A.
The intent of this section is to exclude from this article those structures that do not present a significant danger to human life if destroyed by fire or other events.
1.
The following structures shall be excluded from the provision of this article.
i.
Agricultural buildings not requiring a separate mailing address, such as a barn, poultry building, outbuilding or equipment storage building.
ii.
Storage and accessory buildings for use of the occupant of another building on the same property. Buildings used as dwelling units, offices or the nominal workstation of an employee or such building that requires a separate mailing address, shall be exempt.
(Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 28-066. - New road names.
A.
No new public roads in the incorporated area of the city shall be named without approval of the mayor and council.
B.
No private road names shall be recognized by this article or added to the city's list of road names without the approval of the mayor and council.
C.
The name of any public and/or private road shall not duplicate or be confusingly similar to an existing road name. This restriction shall not apply to extensions of existing roads.
(Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 28-067. - Implementation by city departments.
Every department and official under the jurisdiction of the mayor and council shall withhold non-emergency service until the occupant, owner, or requesting individual has provided the department with a valid assigned number. Non-emergency service includes any service except law enforcement, fire, rescue, or emergency medical service.
(Ord. of 1-14-2014)
Sec. 28-068. - Enforcement.
Owners or occupants of properties with existing structures which do not comply with this article will be notified and requested to meet the requirements within 60 days from the date of notification. A warning notice will be issued by registered mail or certified mail after the 60 days if the requirements have not been met. The owner or occupant who does not comply with this article within 30 days after delivery of a warning notice shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be prosecuted. Prosecution for violation of this article shall be upon citation, as provided in O.C.G.A. 15-10-62 and 15-10-63, in the municipal court of the city. Any person, business, establishment, congregation, group, hunting camp or other legal entity violating any of the above ordinances may be given a summons and tried in municipal court of the city. The address program administrator is authorized to issue citations for the enforcement of the provision contained within the article, as provided by O.C.G.A. 15-10-63.
(Ord. of 1-14-2014)
