Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The city Charter, articles II—IV, exhaustively sets out the administrative and governmental structure of the city.
State Law reference— Supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-3-1 et seq.; powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; powers relating to administration of municipal government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; provisions applicable to counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1 et seq.; provisions applicable to counties and municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-001. - When council meetings are conducted.
Regular meetings of the city council shall be held as determined from time to time in accordance with state law. Special meetings may be called by the mayor or by a majority of the members of the city council, as provided in the Charter, provided that written or verbal notice of said meetings shall be given to each councilmember at least two days in advance unless said notice is waived and consented to by said councilmember.
(Prior Code, § 3-001)
Sec. 2-002. - Document copy charges.
A.
Any person desiring a certified copy of copies of any minutes, resolution, ordinance, court sentence, receipt, document or other record pertaining to the city, or any excerpt from such record, shall pay to the city a fee, as determined from time to time by ordinance, for each such certified copy.
B.
Said charge shall be paid to the city by the person requesting such copy before the copy shall be released by the city clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-002)
Sec. 2-003. - Airport manager.
The county owns the airport thereby releasing the city any direct accountability for this facility.
(Prior Code, § 3-003)
Sec. 2-004. - City clerk to be purchasing agent.
A.
He will supervise the operation of the city office, and in connection with duties as purchasing agent will be responsible for supervising all purchases relating to the operation of all city departments and functions. Upon receipt of purchases requests from the department head, he will thereupon, within authority designated by the mayor and city council, approve purchases requested and issue purchase orders for same.
B.
He will be responsible for maintaining a proper purchasing system and records. This shall include a receiving copy of the purchase order that must be signed by the department head or his agent receiving such items of purchase before being approved for payment in the accounts payable department.
C.
He will be responsible for coordination with the department heads, proper maintenance of records on vehicles used in the metering department and for the proper care and maintenance of vehicles in these departments.
(Prior Code, § 3-004)
Secs. 2-005—2-026. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-027. - Social security—Authorized.
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend at the earliest date possible under the agreement entered into by the state and the federal security administration, to the employees and officials, thereof, and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this Code, the benefits of the system of old age and survivors' insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto, including Public Law 761 of the 83rd Congress, and as provided for in chapter 99-21 of the state code. In pursuance of such policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-012)
Sec. 2-028. - Same—Authority to execute agreements.
The mayor, or other chief executive officer, of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the employees' retirement system of the state and officials as provided for in section 2-027.
(Prior Code, § 3-013)
Sec. 2-029. - Same—Withholdings from salaries and wages.
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in section 2-027 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-014)
Sec. 2-030. - Same—Contributions by city.
The city is authorized to appropriate such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal law or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses, and a guaranty fund to assure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in section 2-027. Such funds shall be paid over to the employees' retirement system of the state in accordance with regulations established by such agency.
(Prior Code, § 3-015)
Sec. 2-031. - Same—Records to be kept by city.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-016)
Sec. 2-032. - Same—Exclusion of employees not authorized to be covered.
There is hereby excluded from any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position, or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-017)
Sec. 2-033. - City attorney and city judge excluded.
For social security purposes only, the individual performing services in the position of city attorney and city judge on retainer fee basis or other professional persons on retainer fee basis are considered to be in fee service position and are not to be covered by social security (unless they request it) and employees' retirement system of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-018)
Sec. 2-034. - Workmen's compensation for employees.
The city clerk is authorized to obtain workmen's compensation insurance for all city employees, including volunteer firemen.
(Prior Code, § 3-019)
Sec. 2-035. - Retirement plan for employees.
A.
Upon becoming eligible for participation, a participant may designate one and only one beneficiary on a form provided for that purpose. In so doing, he specifically provides thereby that in the event the participant's employment is terminated by reason of his death prior to his retirement, there shall be paid to his designated beneficiary a monthly death benefit actuarially equivalent to the reserve required for the participant's anticipate normal retirement benefit. In calculating the normal retirement benefit under the provisions of this section, the following assumptions shall be used:
1.
The participant's age at the time of his death is 65, or his attained age if his attained age is greater than 65; and
2.
The total credited service shall include the amount of total credited service accrued prior to the date of the participant's death. The death benefit under this section shall be calculated in accordance with the joint trust agreement with the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System.
B.
Designation of a beneficiary may be changed by the participant in writing on a form provided for that purpose at any time prior to actual retirement. Only the last such designation of a beneficiary prior to retirement shall have effect and any new designation of a beneficiary invalidates, supersedes, and revokes any prior designation.
C.
Any failure by a participant to designate a beneficiary prior to retirement under the provisions of this article, or any failure of a designated beneficiary to survive the participant, shall preclude the payment of any benefit authorized herein.
D.
Life annuity factors. Said ordinance is further amended by adding a new section as follows: life annuity factors to be used for computing benefits in the event of death prior to retirement.
EXPAND
Age Factor Age Factor
21 12.5773 43 11.4236
22 12.5567 44 11.3274
23 12.5337 45 11.2264
24 12.5082 46 11.1207
25 12.4804 47 11.0102
26 12.4501 48 10.8952
27 12.4170 49 10.7755
28 12.3809 50 10.6509
29 12.3416 51 10.5213
30 12.2994 52 10.3869
31 12.2541 53 10.2479
32 12.2056 54 10.1041
33 12.1535 55 9.9552
34 12.0976 56 9.8010
35 12.0383 57 9.6415
36 11.9754 58 9.4769
37 11.9088 59 9.3076
38 11.8384 60 9.1331
39 11.7640 61 8.9537
40 11.6855 62 8.7698
41 11.6026 63 8.7698
42 11.5154 64 8.3903
  E.
The rights and obligations under the plan with respect to persons whose employment or term of office with the employer is terminated for any reasons whatsoever prior to the effective date of this article are fixed and shall be governed by such plan as existed and were in effect at the time of such termination.
(Prior Code, § 3-022; Ord. of 11-8-1994)
Secs. 2-036—2-059. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-060—2-076. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RECREATION COMMISSION

Sec. 2-077. - Recreation commission for Butler, Reynolds and Taylor County—Established; membership, terms.
A.
Under the provisions of House Bill 794, approved February 1, 1946, there is hereby established a county recreation commission. This commission shall consist of a minimum of five members. A minimum of two of the members shall be residents of the city appointed by that council, one of the members shall be residents of the City of Reynolds appointed by that council, and two of the members shall be residents of the county appointed by the commissioners of roads and revenues of the county.
B.
The terms of office shall be for five years, or until their successors are appointed and qualified.
C.
Vacancies in such boards occurring otherwise than by expiration of term, shall be filled by the mayor or presiding officer of the governing body only for the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 3-028)
Sec. 2-078. - Same—Organization, officers; regulatory power.
Immediately after their appointment, they shall meet and organize by electing one of their members' president and such other officers as may be necessary. The commission shall have the power to adopt by-laws, rules and regulations for the proper conduct of recreation for the cities and county.
(Prior Code, § 3-029)
Sec. 2-079. - Same—Authority to accept, handle property.
The recreation commission shall provide, conduct and supervise public playgrounds, playfields, indoor recreation centers, and other recreation facilities owned or controlled by the cities and county. It shall have the power to conduct any form of recreation or cultural activity that will employ the leisure time of the people in a wholesome or constructive manner. It may conduct such activities on properties under its own control, on public properties with the consent of the authorities of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 3-030)
Sec. 2-080. - Same—Employment of superintendent.
The recreation commission shall have the power to appoint or designate someone to act as superintendent who is trained or properly qualified for the work, and such other personnel as the commission deems proper.
(Prior Code, § 3-031)
Sec. 2-081. - Same—Budget.
Annually, the recreation commission shall submit a budget to the governing authority for approval. The commission may also solicit or receive any donation to be applied, principal or income, for either temporary or permanent use for playgrounds or other recreational purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-032)
Sec. 2-082. - Same—Annual report.
The recreation commission shall make an annual report to the governing bodies and such other reports as from time to time may be requested.
(Prior Code, § 3-033)
Sec. 2-083. - Same—Repeal of other ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions, or parts thereof, in conflict with the provisions and intent of this resolution are hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 3-034)
Secs. 2-084—2-109. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - AREA PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 2-110. - Established.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the municipality and the West Central Georgia area which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the River Valley regional commission, hereinafter referred to as the area planning commission, is hereby created and established as authorized by state law, and said area planning commission shall be organized and empowered as set out in sections 2-111 and 2-112, inclusive.
(Prior Code, § 3-035)
Sec. 2-111. - Membership.
The area planning and development commission shall consist of three members from each of the counties participating in the area planning commission. Of the said three members from each county, one shall be appointed by the governing authority of the municipality wherein the county seat is located and the other two shall be appointed by the governing authority of the said county.
(Prior Code, § 3-036)
Sec. 2-112. - Term of office; vacancies; removal; compensation.
The term of office for all members shall be two or three years. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the governing authority making the appointment that has become vacant. The appointing authority shall also have the power to remove any member it may appoint for cause, on written charges, after public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 3-037)
Secs. 2-113—2-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PURCHASING CARD AND CREDIT CARD ORDINANCE FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS AND DESIGNATED PERSONNEL

Sec. 2-121. - Definitions.
Authorized elected official means an elected official designated by public vote of the city council to receive a county issued government purchasing card or credit card.
Card administrator means the purchasing card and credit card administrator designated by the council for the City of Butler.
City means the City of Butler and/or the council for the City of Butler.
City purchase card, city p-card or city credit card means a financial transaction card issued by any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, used by a city official to purchase goods, services and other things of value on behalf of the city.
Designated personnel means any employee of the City of Butler designated by resolution of the mayor and council for the City of Butler as an authorized user of a city purchase or credit card.
Financial transaction card means an instrument or device as the term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-9-30(5).
User agreement means the required agreement between the council for the City of Butler and the authorized elected officials which restricts the use of a city purchasing card or credit card.
(Ord. of 1-12-2016, § I)
Sec. 2-122. - Authorized users.
The mayor and council for the City of Butler ("city"), in its discretion, may authorize specific city elected officials or designated personnel to use a city purchasing card or credit card by adoption of a resolution in a public meeting.
No authorized elected official or designated personnel may use a city purchasing card or credit card until and unless he or she has executed the city's purchasing card and credit card user agreement.
The city will not make payments to any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, for amounts charged by an elected official or designated personnel to any purchasing cards or credit cards that are not issued pursuant to this article or for any purchases that are not authorized by this article.
(Ord. of 1-12-2016, § II)
Sec. 2-123. - Card administrator.
The council for the City of Butler shall designate a city purchasing card and credit card administrator. The responsibilities of the card administrator include:
1.
Manage city issued purchasing cards and credit cards.
2.
Serve as the main point of contact for all city purchasing card and credit card issues.
3.
Serve as liaison to the elected officials and designated personnel authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff, as well as to the issuer of the purchasing card or credit card.
4.
Provide training on card policies and procedures to the elected officials and designated personnel authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff.
5.
Develop internal procedures to ensure timely payment of cards.
6.
Assist authorized elected officials and designated personnel to dispute transactions when necessary.
7.
Establish internal procedures to ensure compliance with the ordinance from which this article is derived, city procurement ordinances and policies, city purchasing card and credit card user agreements, applicable agreements with the business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, issuing card, and state law, specifically, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-9-37 and 36-80-24.
8.
Document internal controls, audits and other measures to prevent and detect misuse or abuse of the cards.
9.
Audit and reconcile transactions monthly.
10.
Maintain records for at least seven years or as otherwise provided by the city's record retention policy.
(Ord. of 1-12-2016, § III)
Sec. 2-124. - Use of cards.
A.
Authorized purchases. City purchase cards and credit cards may be used to purchase goods and services directly related to the public duties of the authorized elected official or designated personnel only. (Examples of authorized purchases include, but are not solely limited to, the purchase of lodging, fuel, food, non-alcoholic beverages, education and training materials while on city business, or emergency purchases necessary to protect city property.) All purchases are subject to the terms of this article, the city purchasing card and credit card user agreement, city procurement policies and ordinances, and the adopted budget.
Only authorized elected officials and designated personnel may use a city purchase card or credit card for purchases or payments. The cards, and use of the cards, are not transferrable to employees not designated by resolution of the mayor and council for the City of Butler. The authorized elected official or designated personnel shall use care to ensure that others do not have access to the card account number, expiration date and security code.
Unless otherwise approved by the governing authority or established in the city purchasing card and credit card user agreement, the transaction limits are as follows:
Per transaction .....$500.00
Per month .....1,500.00
B.
Unauthorized purchases. City purchasing cards and credit cards shall not be used for goods and services not directly related to the official responsibilities of the authorized elected official or designated personnel. Additionally, cards shall not be used to avoid compliance with the city's purchasing ordinances and procedures, to purchase goods and services that are not approved in the city's budget, to purchase goods and services exceeding the per transaction or per month limit, or to make purchases not in compliance with the city purchasing card and credit card user agreement. (Examples of unauthorized purchases includes but is not limited to items for personal use, cash refunds or advances, alcohol or liquor of any kind, or any item otherwise restricted by city policy unless a specific exemption is granted, in writing, by the mayor and city council.)
C.
Receipts and documentation. Receipts, invoices and other supporting documentation of all purchases made with a city purchasing card or credit card shall be obtained and maintained by the authorized city elected official or designated personnel for five years or as otherwise provided by the city's record retention policy. If an original or duplicate cannot be produced, a sworn affidavit of the authorized elected official or designated personnel may be substituted. The documentation must include the supplier or merchant information (i.e., name and location), quantity, description, unit price, total price, price paid without sales tax and an explanation of the purchase sufficient to show that the expense was in the performance of official city duties.
D.
Public records. All receipt and other documentation of purchases are public records and subject to the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.
(Ord. of 1-12-2016, § IV)
Sec. 2-125. - Review of purchases and audit.
Proper documentation of purchases, internal controls, and other measures prevent and allow detection of misuse or abuse of city issued purchase cards and credit cards. Authorized elected officials, designated personnel, and the staff that process payments under this program shall cooperate and comply with the procedures established by the city.
1.
Review of purchases. All purchases shall be reviewed according to the following procedure: The card administrator, in an effort to ensure compliance with city policy and state law, will conduct monthly/quarterly reviews and audits of all government purchasing card or government credit card transactions. The review is designed to ensure compliance, identify non-compliance issues and misuse, and through corrective measures assist the city with improving compliance. The monthly/quarterly review and audit should happen within seven days of the start of a new month/quarter. After completing the monthly/quarterly audit the card administrator shall notify cardholders of any violations or questions the card administrator has that occurred within that previous month/quarter. Depending on the severity of the violation, the card administrator may temporarily suspend or revoke the use of the government purchasing card or government credit card after notification to the cardholder and to the municipal governing authority, but only after consultation with the city attorney. Any unresolved violations shall be reported to the municipal governing authority and the city attorney in writing within five business days of discovery of such discrepancy.
2.
Audits. The card administrator shall perform an annual review of the card program to ensure adequacy of internal policies and procedures, cardholder spending limits, monthly reconciliation procedures and documentation for transactions. Elected officials, designated personnel, and staff shall cooperate with such review.
(Ord. of 1-12-2016, § V)
Sec. 2-126. - Violations.
A.
An elected official or designated personnel shall reimburse the city for any purchases made with a city issued purchase card or credit card in violation of this article or the user agreement.
B.
In the discretion of the city governing authority, failure to comply with the procedures outlined in this article may result in:
1.
A warning;
2.
Suspension of the elected official's or designated personnel's authority to use a city purchase card or credit card; or
3.
Revocation of the elected official's or designated personnel's authority to use a city purchase card or credit card.
C.
Nothing in this article shall preclude the city governing authority from referring misuse of a purchase card or credit card for prosecution to the appropriate authorities.
(Ord. of 1-12-2016, § VI)
