Chapter 4 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); dogs generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1 et seq.; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-001. - Definitions.
The words, terms, and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings given them in this section unless the context clearly requires a different interpretation. The use of the term "shall" means "mandatory," while the term "may" means "permissive".
Abandonment means releasing or leaving an animal on any property, public or private, with the intention of deserting the animal.
Adequate food means palatable, uncontaminated, and nutritionally correct food sufficient in amount and appropriate for the particular type of animal to prevent starvation, or significant risk to the animal's health from the lack of it.
Adequate shelter means a structure having at least three sides, a top, and a bottom, suitable for the animal's size to protect it from cold, wind, rain, and other elements with sufficient bedding inside the shelter during cold weather.
Adequate water means clean, fresh, potable water sufficient in the amount and appropriate for the particular type of animal to prevent dehydration or significant risk to the animal's health from the lack of it.
Animal means any living vertebrate other than humans and rodents.
Animal control officer means any person designated by the city council to administer and enforce this chapter.
Animal shelter means any facility operated by the designated animal control officer for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter.
Citations means any person who violates the provisions of this chapter may be issued a citation for that violation and ordered to appear in the court of the city. Such citation may be issued by an animal control officer and based upon his own personal knowledge, or upon a sworn written statement of another person who has witnessed the violation. In the latter case, the witness shall be subject to subpoena to testify for the city at the hearing of the case.
Guard dog means any dog maintained for the purpose of safety or security, which dog is reasonably expected to attack other persons or animals either independently or on command.
Humane care of animals means the provision of adequate food, adequate water, and adequate shelter to an animal consistent with its normal requirements.
Impoundment means the action of taking physical control of an animal by an animal control officer and/or other officers empowered to act by law and the transporting of such animal to the animal control facility.
Inhumane treatment or care of animals means any act, omission, or neglect, which causes unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death to any animal.
Inoculation against rabies means the injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, of rabies vaccines approved by the state department of public health, administered under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian with a certificate of vaccination or inoculation issued by the veterinarian.
Joint government services means the county and/or the representatives of any municipality in the county may contract and enter into formal agreements with the city for joint animal control services and codes for the shared use of personnel, facilities, and equipment used in the provision of such services.
Jurisdiction of this chapter means all of the incorporated areas of the city.
Livestock means all animals so defined by the O.C.G.A. § 4-3-2(1) as follows: all animals of the equine, bovine or swine class, including goats, sheep, mules, hogs, cattle, and other grazing animals, and all ratites, including, but not limited to, birds, ostriches, emus, and rheas. Also included are poultry, deer, giraffe, and other even-toed and hoofed animals.
Owner means any person, partnership or corporation owning, possessing, and keeping or harboring one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed harbored if fed and/or sheltered for seven or more consecutive days.
Public nuisance means if an animal:
1.
Is permitted to go upon the property of another person other than its owner without the express consent of the person owning or occupying the other property;
2.
Attacks or acts so as to menace pedestrians or other persons using public ways;
3.
Barks, whines, or howls in an excessive, continuous, or untimely fashion;
4.
Is repeatedly at large; or
5.
Trespasses on school grounds.
Records of appropriate authority includes records of:
1.
Any designated municipal animal control agency;
2.
County board of health;
3.
Federal state, or local court; or
4.
The city animal control officer designated under this chapter.
Restraint means:
1.
Having an animal on a leash or at heel or beside a competent person and obedient to that person's commands.
2.
Having an animal within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets and roads of the city.
3.
Having an animal in a fenced area within the real property limits of the owner, or otherwise authorized by the city. Invisible fence systems may be allowed if maintained in good working order and if they keep the animal contained. Any person using an invisible fence shall post a sign near the entrance to the property indicating an invisible fence is in use. A chain, cable, rope, or other stakeout or tie out device may not be used.
Running at large means any animal off the property of its owner and not under the control of a competent person.
Violations and penalties of this chapter means any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in the city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-001; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-002. - Designation of animal control officer.
A.
The mayor of the city shall designate an individual or department to carry out the duties of the animal control officer as provided in this chapter.
B.
One animal control agency may carry out the duties of animal control for more than one local government by written agreement.
C.
Animal control officers are authorized to make whatever inquiry is deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the terms of this chapter. Law enforcement officials of the city shall cooperate with animal control officers in enforcing the provisions of this chapter and with authorizing the animal control officer's entry onto private property to remove stray animals.
D.
Animal control officers shall not be authorized to make arrests under this chapter unless they are also certified as law enforcement officers by the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-002; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-003. - Interference with animal control officer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, interfere, harass, or otherwise obstruct any animal control officer in the official performance of his duties.
(Prior Code, § 4-003; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-004. - Keeping of wild or non-domesticated animals prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to raise, keep, or permit to be raised or kept, on any property located in the city any wild or non-domesticated animal unless specifically permitted by O.C.G.A. § 27-5-4.
(Prior Code, § 4-004; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-005. - Livestock exempted from this chapter.
The keeping, raising and/or producing of livestock in any manner shall be exempt from the provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-005; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-006. - Restraint of animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to keep under restraint any animal owned by or in the custody or control of such person.
(Prior Code, § 4-006; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-007. - Creation of public nuisance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to create a public nuisance as defined by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-007; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-008. - Confinement of female animals in season.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having custody or control of a female animal that is in season to fail to confine such female animal to prevent contact with a male animal, except for intentional breeding purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-008; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-009. - Animal care.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having custody of an animal to fail to provide his animals with adequate food, water, shelter, and humane care, and to fail to provide veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering.
(Prior Code, § 4-009; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-010. - Cruelty to animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in cruelty to animals as prescribed by O.C.G.A. § 16-24-4 and to engage in dog fighting as prescribed by O.C.G.A. § 16-121-37.
(Prior Code, § 4-010; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-011. - Abandonment of animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon an animal.
(Prior Code, § 4-011; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-012. - Exposure to poison.
It shall be unlawful for any person to expose a poisonous substance, mixed with food or other items so that the substance is liable to be eaten by any animal, provided that, it shall be unlawful for any person to expose on his own property common rat poison mixed with any vegetable substances.
(Prior Code, § 4-012; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-013. - Removal of waste.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in control of an animal to fail to immediately remove excrement deposited by his animal on public property, public walks, or recreation areas.
(Prior Code, § 4-013; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-014. - Confinement and quarantine of biting animals.
Any animal that is known to have bitten a person is required to be confined by the owner for the purpose of quarantine for not less than ten days at the expense of the owner. The method of quarantine shall be determined by the county health department in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1.
(Prior Code, § 4-014; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-015. - Rabies inoculation for dogs and cats.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat kept in the city to fail to have the animal inoculated against rabies and to have rabies tag attached to the animal's collar. The owner shall be liable for the inoculation of the animal. This provision is adopted in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 31-19-3 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 4-015; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-016. - Number of dogs and cats per residential lot.
It is unlawful for there to be more than five dogs and/or five cats on any residential lot or lots subject to the following exceptions:
1.
Pet owners currently in compliance with any prior ordinance limiting the number of dogs and cats shall be allowed to continue to keep said number of animals.
2.
A litter of puppies or kittens will be permitted to remain on owner's property for a period of 12 weeks after their birth.
3.
Residential lots of five or more acres.
4.
Foster home operators, breeders, or other individuals who have been granted a waiver.
(Prior Code, § 4-016; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-017. - Waiver to animal limitations.
A.
Upon written application and upon review and approval based the criteria set forth below, the mayor and council may grant a waiver of section 4-016. In order to grant a waiver, the board must find that:
1.
There are exceptional and extraordinary circumstances existing that a waiver should be granted.
2.
Granting the waiver will not confer upon the applicant any special privileges that are denied to others.
3.
The waiver will not be injurious to other neighbors or to the general welfare of neighborhood.
4.
The applicant can demonstrate a special use or need to house animals in greater number than allowed under section 4-016. Examples of such special use or need include, but are not limited to, participation in a licensed animal rescue organization, use of animal for therapeutic or other purposes, and emergency care of pet owned by other persons.
B.
The written application for waiver shall be accomplished by an application fee as determined from time to time by ordinance.
C.
The owner shall post a conspicuous sign, large enough to read from any public thoroughfare adjacent to the owner's property, stating that a waiver of the animal limitation section has been applied for and the date, time, and location of the hearing to be held on the application. The sign must be posted not less than 15 days prior to hearing on the application.
D.
Any decision denying a waiver, may be reviewed by the mayor and city council at their discretion, and any granting of a waiver may be revoked upon a finding that the owner is in violation of the public nuisance provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-017; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-018. - Warning notice on premises using guard dogs.
The owner, tenant, or custodian of property upon or within which a guard dog is located shall conspicuously and prominently post a notice on the outside of the property, which notice shall contain block letters easily read distance of 50 feet, which block letters shall read "Warning Guard Dog". These letters shall be either red or black on a white background. If the dog is kept in a fence, the posted warning shall be placed on the fence at the intervals of not more than 50 feet apart and at the entrance and exit of fence. In the case of apartments, or businesses, the notice shall be posted at every entrance and exit to the apartment or business.
(Prior Code, § 4-018; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-019. - Violations and penalties.
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter will be punished by a fine as determined from time to time by ordinance or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 4-019; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Secs. 4-020—4-041. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - IMPOUNDMENT

Sec. 4-042. - Animals subject to impoundment.
The animal control officer, at the direction of the chief of police and/or police officers, may impound any animal that is out of control or unattended or otherwise in violation of this article, whether or not the animal is on private or public property.
(Prior Code, § 4-051; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-043. - Redemption of impounded animals.
If the owner of an impounded animal is known or can reasonably be identified, the animal control officer shall notify that person by telephone or by mail within two working days of the impoundment. The owner may claim and take custody of the animal within four working days of the impoundment by the payment of an impoundment fee, and upon providing proof of rabies inoculation. If the impounded animal is not current on rabies inoculation, the animal may be released to the owner who shall have the animal inoculated within five working days of the release and who shall provide a copy of the rabies certificate to the animal control officer. Failure to provide the certificate shall result in new impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 4-052; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-044. - Impoundment fee.
The mayor and city council shall set all fees for impoundment and may change them from time to time in their discretion. Impoundment fees are distinct from penalties for violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-053; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-045. - Disposition of unclaimed animals.
If an impounded animal has remained unclaimed for ten days, if injured or suffering and in great pain, and if such animal does not display an identification tag and no determination of the owner can be made from reasonable investigation; the animal control officer shall be authorized to dispose of the animal in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-3-5 and other applicable code sections humane and painless a manner as possible or to donate any animal to a public or private nonprofit institution or agency. Disposal of an animal under this section does not relieve the owner from any other liabilities. If the owner is known or ascertainable, the animal control officer shall be authorized to hold the animal for a reasonable time until such owner can be reached. If the owner fails or refuses to reclaim the animal within ten days of receipt of notice of impoundment, the animal control officer may dispose of the animal as provided for above.
(Prior Code, § 4-054; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Secs. 4-046—4-063. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CONTROL OF DANGEROUS DOGS

Sec. 4-064. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Dangerous dog means any dog that, according to the records of an appropriate authority:
1.
Inflicts a serve injury on a human being without provocation on public or private property.
2.
Aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans without provocation after the dog has been classified as a potential dangerous dog after the owner has been notified of such classification.
3.
Inflicts a serve injury on another animal without provocation on public or private property.
Potentially dangerous dog means any dog that, unprovoked, attempts to bite or bites a human being on private or public property.
Proper enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, while on the owner's property, securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen, fence, or structure suitable both to prevent the entry of young children and to prevent the dog from escaping. Such pen or structure shall have secure sides and top. If the dog enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence are of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape. Such enclosure shall also provide adequate shelter for the dog.
(Prior Code, § 4-071; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-065. - Exemptions.
Any dog being used by a law enforcement officer to assist in official duties shall be exempt form the provisions of this article even if it inflicts injury, if the person injured:
1.
Was committing a willful trespass or tort;
2.
Was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog;
3.
Had tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog;
4.
Was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
(Prior Code, § 4-072; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-066. - Violations of this article.
Provisions regarding the violation of this article, and the penalties therefore, shall be applied in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-8-28, and other applicable sections of the state code.
(Prior Code, § 4-073; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-067. - Animal control board.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-8-22(d) the mayor and city council, hereby establishes an animal control board to conduct all hearings required under this article. The membership, terms, and procedures of the board shall be as the mayor and council of the city shall provide. All members of the animal control board shall be residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-074; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-068. - Investigation; notice to owner.
Investigations by animal control officers regarding the classifications of dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs, notice to owners, and the classification process of such dogs shall be applied in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 4-8-23 and 4-8-24.
(Prior Code, § 4-075; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-069. - Procedures for classification.
Provisions pertaining to procedures for classification of the dog as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, notice requirements and hearings shall be applied in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-8-24, or as amended or any other applicable section of the state code.
(Prior Code, § 4-076; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-070. - Duties of owners of dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs; registration fee.
The provisions of this section shall be applied in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-8-25. In accordance with that section, any person possessing or intending to possess a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog must provide the city with proof of liability insurance, issued by an insurer licensed to do business in the state, in an amount of not less than $50,000.00, which policy of insurance must provide coverage against liability for any personal injuries inflicted by the dog during the term of the coverage. A separate policy must be maintained for each dog classified as dangerous or potentially dangerous. In the alternative, the owner may provide a surety bond in an amount not less than $50,000.00, issued by a surety company authorized to do business in the state providing payment of the bond to any person who recovers in a court of law for injuries inflicted by the dog up to the amount of the recovery or the bond, whichever is lesser. In addition, the owner of each dog classified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall pay an annual registration fee as determined from time to time by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-077; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-071. - Confinement.
All provisions permitting dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs to be outside a proper enclosure shall be applied by the animal control officer in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-8-26.
(Prior Code, § 4-078; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
Sec. 4-072. - Confiscation of dogs.
All confiscation of dogs shall be done in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-8-27.
(Prior Code, § 4-079; Ord. of 10-9-2007)
