PART I - CHARTER[1]
Content of Act/Resolution
LOCAL AND SPECIAL ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA 1988
1988 Vol. 2—Page: 4202
Sequential Number: 148
Short Title: CITY OF BUTLER — NEW CHARTER.
Law Number: No. 986
Origin: (House Bill No. 1810).
Type: AN ACT
To provide a new charter for the City of Butler; to provide for incorporation, boundaries, and powers of the city; to provide for a governing authority of such city and the powers, duties, authority, election, terms, method of filling vacancies, compensation, qualifications, prohibitions, and removal from office relative to members of such governing authority; to provide for inquiries and investigations; to provide for organization and procedures; to provide for ordinances and codes; to provide for the office of mayor and certain duties and powers relative to the office of mayor; to provide for administrative responsibilities; to provide for boards, commissions, and authorities; to provide for city officials and other personnel; to provide for rules and regulations; to provide for a municipal court and the judge or judges thereof; to provide for practices and procedures; to provide for taxation and fees; to provide for franchises, service charges, and assessments; to provide for bonded and other indebtedness; to provide for accounting and budgeting; to provide for purchases; to provide for the sale of property; to provide for bonds for officials; to provide for eminent domain; to provide for penalties; to provide for definitions and construction; to provide for other matters relative to the foregoing; to repeal a specific Act; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Act No. 987, originating as House Bill No. 1810 in the 1988 legislative session, provided a new charter for the City of Butler. Sections listed below are from the original act, unless a section-specific editor's note indicates later amendment or creation.

ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Section 1.01. - Incorporation.
The City of Butler in Taylor County is reincorporated by the enactment of this charter and is constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name of the "City of Butler." References in this charter to "the city" or "this city" refer to the City of Butler. The city shall have perpetual existence. The city may contract and be contracted with, may bring and defend actions, and plead and be impleaded in all courts of law and equity and in all actions whatsoever and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Section 1.02. - City boundaries.
The corporate limits of the City of Butler shall extend one mile in every direction from the Taylor County courthouse in said city, thereby forming a circle, the center of which is the Taylor County courthouse.
Section 1.03. - Corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the mayor and council, shall include the power:
(1)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(2)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions;
(3)
To appropriate and borrow money to provide for payment of the debts of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose or for matters of national or state interest; and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with applicable state law governing bonds issued by municipalities;
(4)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property inside or outside the corporate boundaries of the city;
(5)
To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate boundaries of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the mayor and council under applicable state law;
(6)
To acquire, construct, operate, distribute, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a waterworks system, sewerage system, a natural gas system, and a community antenna television system, both inside and outside the corporate limits, subject to the provisions of applicable general law. For water and gas furnished and for all sewerage and sanitary service rendered said city may prescribe the charges, rates, fares, fees, regulations, and standards and conditions of service to be provided and shall have a lien against any property of the persons served, said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes;
(7)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services including but not limited to those stated in this section, not to exceed periods of 20 years. The mayor and council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Public Service Commission;
(8)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, education, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under applicable state law;
(9)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(10)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse; and to exercise all necessary and proper means to keep the city limits free from garbage, trash, and filth. Charges or fees may be imposed to cover the costs of such services which, if unpaid, shall constitute a debt which shall be subject to a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes;
(11)
To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city;
(12)
To define a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement. The judge of the municipal court shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten days after written notice and hearing from the city to do so;
(13)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(14)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court shall work out such sentences in any public works or on the public streets of the city as provided by ordinances; or the mayor and council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to any county work camp or jail or to any other governmental agency, by agreement with the appropriate county officers or any other government agencies;
(15)
To regulate and license or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition, by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when such animals or fowl are not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted under this charter;
(16)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles;
(17)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(18)
To provide that upon the conviction of the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation, or order, any person shall be punished as provided by ordinance but not exceeding the limitations prescribed by this charter;
(19)
To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising said city, its advantages, and resources so as to bring new capital, commercial, manufacturing, and other enterprises into the city; and also to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city for the support of public hospitals and libraries;
(20)
To regulate and control public streets, public alleys, and ways; and in the discretion of the mayor and council by ordinance to alter, open, or close public streets and public alleys and ways; and
(21)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter, as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated in this charter; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under the Constitution or general laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the Constitution or applicable state law.
Section 1.04. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules, and regulations now in force in said city, not inconsistent with this charter, are declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the mayor and council of said city.
ARTICLE II. - CITY GOVERNMENT

Section 2.01. - Establishment of city government.
The corporate governmental powers of the City of Butler shall be vested in a mayor and five councilmen to be known as the "Mayor and Council of the City of Butler." The mayor shall be elected by the qualified voters of the city at large and the councilmen shall be elected by the qualified voters of their respective districts and the mayor and council shall exercise their powers in such manner as prescribed by this charter, the Constitution and applicable general laws of the State of Georgia or, if not so prescribed, in such manner as prescribed by the duly established ordinances of the City of Butler.
Section 2.02. - Qualification for mayor and councilmen.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman, elected or appointed, a person must be at least 21 years of age; must meet the requirements of a qualified elector for members of the General Assembly, as prescribed by state law; must be a registered voter in the City of Butler; and must be a bona fide resident of the City of Butler and, if a councilman, of the election district from which he seeks election for one year next preceding the time and holding of the election in which he offers as a candidate.
Section 2.03. - Elections.
(a)
The mayor and councilmembers in office on the effective date of this Act shall continue to serve until the special election provided for in subsection (d) of this section is held and their successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
For the purpose of electing the five members of the city council, the City of Butler shall consist of two council districts. District 1 shall contain two numbered posts, designated as Post 1 and Post 2, and District 2 shall contain three numbered posts, designated as Post 3, Post 4, and Post 5. The election districts shall be as follows:
Council District: 1
TAYLOR COUNTY
VTD: 0001 1 (Part)
Tract: 9503.
Block(s): 106A, 112A, 117A, 118, 119, 120A, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 142, 143, 201B, 223A, 228A, 229A, 230, 231, 232A, 233, 234, 235, 245, 246A, 250A, 256, 257
Council District: 2
TAYLOR COUNTY
VTD: 0001 1 (Part)
Tract: 9503.
Block(s): 112B, 125, 236, 237, 238, 239, 240, 242, 251A, 252, 253, 254, 255, 301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 331, 333
VTD: 0006 6 (Part)
Tract: 9503.
Block(s): 131A, 132, 241, 243, 244, 258, 306, 307, 308, 309, 310, 311, 312, 313, 314, 315, 316, 317, 318, 319, 320, 321, 322, 323, 324, 325, 326, 327, 328, 329, 330, 332, 334, 335, 336A, 337, 338, 339, 340, 341, 342, 343, 344
(c)
For purposes of this section:
(1)
The terms 'Tract,' 'Block,' and 'VTD' shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 1990 for the State of Georgia;
(2)
The term 'Precinct' is synonymous with the term 'voting precinct' and means a geographical area designated by Article 7 of Chapter 2 or 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., within which all electors vote at one polling place;
(3)
Precinct names and designations following VTD designations are included for convenience only; and in the event the description of any council district contains a conflict between the geographical boundaries of any VTD and the boundaries of the following named precinct, the geographical boundary of the VTD as shown on the census maps for the United States decennial census of 1990 for the State of Georgia shall control;
(4)
Any part of the City of Butler which is not included in any council district described in this section shall be included within that council district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 1990 for the State of Georgia; and
(5)
Any part of the City of Butler which is described in this section as being included in a particular council district shall nevertheless not be included within such council district if such part is not contiguous to such council district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that council district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 1990 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
Each person seeking election to the council shall designate the post for which such person seeks election. The person who receives a majority of the votes cast for mayor shall be elected mayor and the person who receives a majority of the votes cast for each post shall be elected to that post. Persons so elected shall serve for terms of office of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast for an office, a run-off election shall be held in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Municipal Election Code.'
(e)
A special municipal election shall be held in 1992 for the purpose of electing a mayor and five councilmembers. The special election shall be held, unless prohibited by the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, as soon as is permissible and reasonably practicable under the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, and under the general laws of this state.
(1)
At the special election provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection, members of the council representing Post 1, Post 2, and Post 3 shall be elected for an initial term expiring December 31, 1995, and until their successors are elected and qualified, and the mayor and members of the council representing Post 4 and Post 5 shall be elected for an initial term expiring December 31, 1993, and until their successors are elected and qualified. The mayor and members of the council elected at the special election provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall take office at the first council meeting following their election.
(2)
Thereafter, the mayor and all members of the council shall be elected for terms of office of four years at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of their terms of office.
Editor's note— An Act providing for a new charter for the City of Butler, approved March 24, 1988 (Ga. L. 1988, p. 4202), is amended by striking Section 2.03 in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the above information from the Law No. 806 (Ga. L. 1992, p. 5585), originating as House Bill No. 1800.
Section 2.04. - Term of office.
The terms of office for mayor and councilmen shall begin at the first regular council meeting in January next succeeding the election and shall continue until their successors are elected and qualified.
Section 2.05. - Council.
The council shall meet in special sessions on written call of the mayor or mayor pro tempore and three councilmen and when notice of which has been served on the other members personally or left at their residences at least 12 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice of a special meeting shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is convened. Only the business stated in the written call may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the city council. A majority of the city council shall constitute a quorum. The city council may provide by ordinance for punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in the presence of the council.
Section 2.06. - Mayor as presiding officer.
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the city council; shall have a vote only in the case of a tie vote by the council; shall have veto powers in which case the mayor shall have five days after meetings of the council in which to file in writing with the clerk his dissent, but the council may at the same meeting or any subsequent meeting within 31 days, pass any such ordinance, order, or resolution, notwithstanding the veto, by a vote of two-thirds of the total number of councilmen, to be taken in ayes and nays and entered upon the minutes; shall be ceremonial head of the city; shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage; may obtain short-term loans in the name of the city when authorized by the council to do so; and shall perform such other duties as may be imposed by this charter and duly adopted ordinances.
Section 2.07. - Mayor pro tempore.
The council at the first regular meeting, and after the newly elected councilmen have taken office following each regular election, shall elect from its membership a mayor pro tempore for a term of one year. Upon the city council's failure to elect a mayor pro tempore at its first meeting in January of each year, the incumbent councilman who received the highest number of votes, when last elected, shall be declared mayor pro tempore. The mayor pro tempore shall perform the duties of the mayor during his absence from the city, his sickness, his disqualification, or until the replacement of the mayor by a special election upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of mayor.
Section 2.08. - Vacancy in office of mayor or councilman.
(a)
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilman resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, or is absent from four consecutive regular meetings of the governing authority, except if granted a leave of absence by the city council which leave shall be entered upon the minute books; or if he is adjudged incompetent or is convicted of malfeasance in office or of a felony or of any violation of election laws.
(b)
The mayor and council shall appoint a qualified person to fill any such vacancy in the office of councilman, said person to hold office until the next regular election.
(c)
At no time shall there be more than one councilman so appointed holding office; and if a vacancy occurs on the city council with one member already so appointed on the council, a special election conducted in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. shall be held within a period of 45 days after the office becomes vacant pursuant to a call or a special election as provided by this charter; however, if a special election is called pursuant to this charter, the vacancy previously filled by appointment and the second vacancy shall both be filled for the unexpired terms at such regular election.
(d)
In the event a vacancy shall occur in the office of the mayor, a special election shall be called and held in the manner prescribed by Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Georgia Municipal Election Code."
Section 2.09. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and council may determine the salary of the mayor and councilmen by ordinance; provided, however, no ordinance increasing the salary of the mayor or councilmen shall become effective until the date of commencement of the terms of mayor and councilmen elected at the next regular election. Each councilman and the mayor, when authorized by the mayor and council and upon presentation of itemized vouchers, shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
Section 2.10. - City clerk.
(a)
The mayor and council shall appoint a city clerk who shall be ex officio treasurer. He shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the council; attending meetings of the mayor and council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered and the text of each resolution or ordinance considered, and preparing and certifying copies of official records in his office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinances; and performing such other duties as may be required by the council or mayor.
(b)
The mayor and council shall require the clerk-treasurer, before entering upon discharge of his duties, to give good and sufficient bond in an amount to be decided by the mayor and council but not less than $5,000.00, said bond payable to the City of Butler for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriation, or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the mayor and council and the premium thereon shall be paid by the city.
Section 2.11. - City legislation.
Any action of the mayor and council having a regulatory or penal effect or required to be done by ordinance under this charter shall be done only by ordinance. Each ordinance shall be in written form before being voted upon. A majority vote of those present shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk.
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Section 3.01. - Organization.
The city government shall continue as presently organized, unless and until otherwise provided by ordinance. The mayor and council, by such ordinances, may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city; may provide that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city.
Section 3.02. - Administrative duties of mayor.
The mayor shall be the executive head of the city government, responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, and franchises in the city. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such powers and duties as may be provided by ordinance not inconsistent with this charter.
Section 3.03. - City attorney.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as provided by the mayor and the city council.
Section 3.04. - Oath of office.
Before a person takes any office in the city government, he shall take before an officer of the state authorized to administer oaths the following such oath or affirmation:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the State of Georgia; that I will in all respects observe the provisions of the charter and ordinances of the City of Butler; and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of _______. So help me God."
Section 3.05. - Political activity prohibited.
No officer or employee of the city other than the mayor and councilmen shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination of election to any city office.
Section 3.06. - City planning and renewal.
The mayor and council may create and establish a planning commission pursuant to the provisions of general law as they now exist or as they may hereinafter be amended.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Section 4.01. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of city government shall begin on the first day of July and end on the thirtieth day of June of each year, but a different fiscal year may be established by ordinance for the entire city government or for any utility thereof. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for fiscal accounting and reporting of every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by law.
Section 4.02. - Mayor to submit annual budget.
On or before a date fixed by the mayor and council but not later than 45 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed operating budget for the next fiscal year, showing separately for the general funds, each utility, and each other fund the following:
(1)
The revenue and expenditures during the preceding fiscal year;
(2)
Appropriations and estimated revenue and expenditures for the current fiscal year;
(3)
Estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year;
(4)
A comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the preceding fiscal year and estimated assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year; and
(5)
Such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the mayor and council.
Section 4.03. - Action by council on budget.
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the council shall adopt an appropriate ordinance, based on the mayor's budget, with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department, office, and agency unless otherwise directed by the council. The council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, or lives, safety or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city, provided the council unanimously agrees that there is such an emergency. If conditions prevent the adoption of an appropriations ordinance before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment as provided by ordinance specifically passed for such purpose.
Section 4.04. - Additional appropriations.
The council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budget at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose, but any such additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unappropriated surplus.
Section 4.05. - Lapse of appropriations.
All unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget at the end of the fiscal year shall lapse into the general fund as unappropriated surplus or reserves.
Section 4.06. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before a date fixed by the council but not later than 45 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing each improvement. The council shall have the power to accept with or without amendments or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening lives, health, or property of inhabitants. Such capital improvements budget may be revised and extended each year with regard to the capital improvements still pending or in the process of construction or acquisition.
(b)
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the council shall adopt an appropriate ordinance based on the proposed capital improvements budget, with such modification as the council considers necessary or desirable. No appropriations provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned, provided the mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a majority vote of the council.
Section 4.07. - Annual audit.
The mayor and council shall employ a certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report which shall be furnished or made available to the mayor and every councilman.
Section 4.08. - Publication of financial statement.
As soon as practicable after the close of the fiscal year, but within six months after the close thereof, the mayor and council shall cause to be published in a local newspaper a statement of financial condition which shall contain a statement of revenues and expenditures showing all municipal accounts as of the close of such preceding fiscal year. Such statement of financial condition shall be prepared so as to fairly represent the general financial condition of the city, as of the close of the preceding fiscal year.
Section 4.09. - Property taxes.
(a)
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1 in each year, shall be returned for taxes on or before April 1 in each year.
(b)
If such return is not made by the property owner, the assessing authority, which can be either the board of assessors of the city, which shall consist of two councilmen and a property owner, the county assessing authority, or such other authority as the council by ordinance may designate, shall assess such property for taxation from the best information the authority can obtain as to the property's value for the year in default and notify said owner of the valuation, which shall be final, unless the owner shall claim that it is excessive, said claim to be asserted as provided by general law.
(c)
Any assessment made by the assessing authority, as designated by the mayor and city council, shall, unless otherwise provided by this charter, be subject to arbitration. The arbitration procedures for determining the correctness or validity of any assessment shall be as provided by state law. Taxes shall be due on October 1 of each year and shall become past due or delinquent if not paid on or before December 20 of each year. The mayor and city council by ordinance may provide for an independent city assessment as provided by Georgia law or may elect to use the county assessment for the year in which city taxes are to be levied. If an independent city assessment is made, a board of equalization consisting of three resident property owners of the city appointed by the mayor and city council, with compensation fixed by ordinance, shall hear appeals of taxpayers taken within ten days after the city clerk has sent a notice, by regular mail, or appeals of a new or increased assessment. Except as otherwise provided in this section, appeals involving city property assessments may be taken as now or as may hereinafter be provided by general law.
Section 4.10. - Tax levy.
The mayor and council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for any other public purpose in addition to a sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations.
Section 4.11. - Tax due date and tax bills.
(a)
The due date of property taxes shall be October 1 of each year. The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers, showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates, and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent if not paid on or before December 20 of each year, which time may be changed by ordinance, and at which time a penalty of 10 percent in addition to fi. fa. charge shall be added; and, thereafter, such taxes shall be subject to interest at the rate of 9 percent per annum from the due date until paid. On and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court of record.
(b)
The city shall have the right, power, and authority to provide by ordinance for the return of all real and personal property for taxation; to provide for the compelling of such return and to provide penalties for failure to do so; to double tax defaulters, after due notice and hearing to be prescribed by the mayor and council, for the current or any previous year, so long as not in conflict with any limitation prescribed by laws of Georgia; to provide the time or times at which said returns are due; and to provide the time or times when said taxes shall be due and payable.
Section 4.12. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by the chief of police under the same procedure provided by laws governing execution of such process from the superior court or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of January 1 of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens, except that it shall have equal dignity with those for federal, state, or county taxes.
Section 4.13. - Transfer of executions.
The clerk of the City of Butler shall be authorized to transfer and assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for street, sewer, or any other assessment in the same manner, upon the same terms, and to the same effect and thereby vest the purchaser or transferee with the same rights as in cases of sales or transfers of fi. fas. as now provided by law; and in all sales of property hereafter made under execution in behalf of the city for the collection of street, sewer, and other assessments, the owner or owners, as the case may be, are authorized to redeem same within the same time and on compliance with the same terms and payment of the same premium, interest, and costs as in cases of redemption of property where sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fa. as the same now exists or as may from time to time be provided by law.
Section 4.14. - Special assessments.
The mayor and council may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent 30 days after their due dates and shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of 10 percent and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of 9 percent per annum from due date until paid. A lien for such amounts plus fi. fa. charges, interest, and penalties shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes; and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this charter for city property taxes.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Section 5.01. - Regular elections.
The regular election for mayor and city council, or for councilmembers, as the case may be, shall be held on the first Tuesday following the first Monday in November of each odd-numbered year. Officials elected at any regular election shall take office at the first regular council meeting following such election.
Editor's note— An Act providing for a new charter for the City of Butler, approved March 24, 1988 (Ga. L. 1988, p. 4202), is amended by striking Section 5.01 in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the above information from the Law No. 806 (Ga. L. 1992, p. 5585), originating as House Bill No. 1800.
Section 5.02. - Qualifications of candidates.
Any person desiring to become a candidate in any regular election shall file written notice of his candidacy with the municipal election superintendent not less than 15 nor more than 45 days, as prescribed by ordinance, prior to the date fixed for the holding of any such election. Any person desiring to become a candidate in any special election shall file written notice of his candidacy with the municipal election superintendent not less than ten days nor more than 30 days, as prescribed by ordinance, prior to the date fixed for holding any such election.
Section 5.03. - Nomination petitions.
Nominations of candidates for public office may also be made by nomination petitions, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Georgia Municipal Election Code." The mayor and council may provide by ordinance all rules and requirements regulating the use and validity of such petitions. In order for the name of any candidate to be placed on a ballot by nomination petition, said petition must be signed by a sufficient number of valid signatures equal to 10 percent of the number of qualified voters registered to vote in the last general election in the city.
Section 5.04. - Qualifications of electors.
Any person meeting the qualifications of an elector for members of the General Assembly under state law who has been a bona fide resident of the City of Butler for 90 days next preceding the election in which he desires to vote, or for such period as may otherwise be provided by Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," shall be qualified to register as an elector in any city election held in this charter.
Section 5.05. - Applicability of general laws.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the election of all officials of the City of Butler, where provision is made for election by the qualified voters thereof, shall be held in accordance with applicable provisions of Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Georgia Municipal Election Code." Whenever any time period established by the "Georgia Municipal Election Code" is altered so as to change or supersede any time period provided in this charter, it shall be considered that the time periods provided in this charter will be correspondingly changed so as to avoid any conflict between this charter and the general law of the state.
Section 5.06. - Time of election.
The polls shall be opened from 7:00 A.M. local time to 7:00 P.M. local time.
Section 5.07. - Place of elections.
The polling place or places for holding elections shall be prescribed by the mayor and council and shall be published in the election notice as required by law; provided, however, any change in a polling place shall be effected as provided by Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Georgia Municipal Election Code."
Section 5.08. - Voter registration.
In all elections held in the City of Butler, whether special or general primaries or elections, the voters, in addition to the qualifications already prescribed, shall be registered as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Section 5.09. - Rules.
The mayor and council are hereby authorized to enact by ordinance such additional rules consistent with this charter and general laws as are deemed necessary for the conduct of elections.
Section 5.10. - Call for election.
Any call for an election which is required to be made by the laws of this state shall be made by the municipal election superintendent.
ARTICLE VI. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Section 6.01. - Creation.
There is established a court to be known as the "Municipal Court of the City of Butler," which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against laws and ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance; to punish any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage, or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the City of Butler constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof; to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations and to prescribe the conditions of forfeiture of the same; and to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary and proper to the conduct of said court. The presiding officer of such court shall be known as the judge. Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof. The court shall sit at a place designated by the mayor and council.
Section 6.02. - Judge.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as judge of the municipal court unless he or she has attained the age of 21 years. The judge shall be appointed by the mayor and council and shall serve at the discretion of the mayor and council. The compensation of the judge shall be fixed by the mayor and council. Nothing contained in this charter shall disqualify the mayor or any councilmember from serving as judge or judge pro tempore.
(b)
The judge pro tempore shall serve in the absence of the judge, shall have the same qualifications as the judge, and shall be appointed by the mayor and council.
(c)
Before entering on duties of his office, the judge or the judge pro tempore shall take an oath, before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state, that he will truly, honestly, and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. This oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the meeting of the mayor and council.
Editor's note— An Act providing for a new charter for the City of Butler, approved March 24, 1988 (Ga. L. 1988, p. 4202), is amended by striking subsection (a) of Section 6.02 in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the above information from the Law No. 806 (Ga. L. 1992, p. 5585), originating as House Bill No. 1800.
Section 6.03. - Jurisdiction.
The judge shall have power to impose fines, costs, and forfeitures for the violation of any law or ordinance of the City of Butler passed in accordance with this charter, for each offense, in an amount not to exceed $1,000.00, to imprison offenders for a period of not more than 60 days, or to labor on the roads and streets or other public works of said city for not more than 60 days, and said judge shall have the power and authority to impose any one or more of these punishments when he shall find that the facts of the case so justify. Said judge shall not have the authority to inflict a greater punishment for contempt than to impose a fine of $200.00 or imprisonment not exceeding 20 days, or any combination of the two. He shall be to all intents and purposes a magistrate so far as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the limits of the City of Butler, which warrants may be executed by any officer of said city and to commit the offenders to jail or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearance at the next term of a court of competent jurisdiction. The municipal court shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with that of magistrates over offenses against the criminal cases of the state committed within the corporate limits. Except as may be otherwise specified, the judge is vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers as to the entire area within the corporate limits of the City of Butler. The municipal court is specifically vested with all jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area within the corporate limits granted by state laws generally to municipal courts and particularly such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances. Said judge is authorized to administer oaths.
Editor's note— An Act providing for a new charter for the City of Butler, approved March 24, 1988 (Ga. L. 1988, p. 4202), is amended by striking Section 6.03 in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof the above information from the Law No. 806 (Ga. L. 1992, p. 5585), originating as House Bill No. 1800.
Section 6.04. - Right of appeal.
The right of appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs on appeal to the Superior Court of Taylor County from the municipal court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the magistrate court; provided, however, any person convicted of an offense shall have ten days to file his appeal. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Section 6.05. - Court costs.
In all cases in the Municipal Court of the City of Butler, the costs incurred and allowable may be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing costs in the magistrate courts of said state, or the mayor and council may establish a schedule of fees to defray the costs of operation; and the city shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the superior court for violations of state law. The mayor and council may also provide a uniform scale of costs of the clerk and police officers of said city and for all services in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the municipal court and the issuance and collection of tax and other executions and for their collection and payment into the city treasury. The judge is authorized to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses to said municipal court and to issue such other processes as may be necessary to the proper administration of said court.
Section 6.06. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the mayor and council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of said court; provided, however, that the mayor and council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedures of the operation of the superior courts under the general laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 7.01. - Specific repealer.
(a)
An Act incorporating the City of Butler, approved August 18, 1919 (Ga. L. 1919, p. 849), as amended, is repealed in its entirety, and all amendatory Acts thereto and all prior charters for such city are likewise repealed in their entirety.
(b)
An Act incorporating the City of Butler, approved April 3, 1972 (Ga. L. 1972, p. 3884), as amended, is repealed in its entirety, and all amendatory Acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety.
Section 7.02. - General repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
NOTICE OF INTENTION TO INTRODUCE LOCAL LEGISLATION
Notice is given that there will be introduced at the regular 1988 session of the General Assembly of Georgia a bill to provide a new charter for the City of Butler; and for other purposes.
This 1st day of February, 1988.
HONORABLE WARD EDWARDS REPRESENTATIVE, 112th DISTRICT
GEORGIA, FULTON COUNTY
Personally appeared before me, the undersigned authority, duly authorized to administer oaths, Ward Edwards, who, on oath, deposes and says that he is Representative from the 112th District, and that the attached copy of Notice of Intention to Introduce Local Legislation was published in the Taylor County News which is the official organ of Taylor County, on the following date: February 11, 1988.
/s/ Ward Edwards Representative, 112th District
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 19th day of February, 1988.
/s/ Connie F. Smith
Notary Public, Clayton County, Georgia
My Commission Expires Nov. 21, 1989
(SEAL)
Approval Date: Approved March 24, 1988.
