ARTICLE III. - EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

Sec. 114-51. - Statement of policy.
It is the policy of the mayor and city council to provide equal employment opportunity in city government for all qualified persons; to prohibit discrimination in employment because of race, color, religion, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, veteran's status or national origin; and to promote the full realization of equal employment opportunity through a positive, continuing program in each department and agency of the city government. The policy of equal opportunity applies to every aspect of city employment, policy and practice.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Sec. 114-52. - Equal employment opportunity program for city departments and agencies.
(a)
Duties of heads of departments and agencies. The head of each executive department and agency shall establish and maintain a positive program of equal employment opportunity for all employees and applicants for employment.
(b)
Duties of mayor. The mayor, upon the advice and guidance of the women's advisory council, civil service board and other individuals, groups or organizations as may be of assistance in realizing the objectives of this article, shall facilitate, supervise, monitor and evaluate achievement of a model program for equal employment opportunity in city government, including but not limited to the following objectives:
(1)
Review job qualifications, specifications and descriptions to ensure that the requirements do not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, veteran's status or national origin and are a factual reflection of the needs of each job classification in city government.
(2)
Review current in-service training programs to assess their effectiveness in meeting the needs of incumbent employees.
(3)
Design training and education programs to focus on upgrading incumbent personnel and to afford women and other minority employees the opportunity to develop new and improved skills.
(4)
Hold special meetings with supervisory personnel at all levels in each city department and agency to explain the intent of the EEO policy in this article and each individual's responsibility for its implementation.
(5)
Inform local recruiting sources, at least annually, of the EEO policy of the city in this article and request them to describe their ability to recruit actively and make referrals of women and other minorities for all positions.
(6)
Communicate to employees the existence of the city's EEO policy and program and how they can avail themselves of its benefits.
(c)
Report. The mayor shall, annually, at the last council meeting in December of each year, submit to the council a written report on the implementation of the program for equal employment opportunity in city government.
(Ord. No. 2007-22(06-O-2700), § 1, 3-27-07)
Secs. 114-53—114-75. - Reserved.
