DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-1101. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the procurement and real estate code of the city.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1102. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
Actual offeror means any firm that has submitted a bid or proposal in response to the particular solicitation in question. Individual joint venturers, subcontractors, subconsultants, or individuals or entities comprising a part of the bidder or proponent team are not actual offerors.
Annual contract means any contract entered into for a period of one year or multiple one-year periods (including options to renew for additional one year periods), with a contractor, to provide the city upon request with a specified product or service at a predetermined rate or price.
Award means when legislation authorizing the award of the contract has been adopted by the council and approved by the Mayor, provided, however, that the contract will not become binding upon the city and the city will incur no liability under it until it has been duly executed by the contractor, returned to the city with all required submittals, including insurance and bonding, if applicable, executed by the Mayor, attested to by the municipal clerk, approved by the city attorney as to form and delivered to the contractor.
Business means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint stock company, joint venture, firm or any other private legal entity.
Change order (unilateral) means a written order signed and unilaterally issued by the chief procurement officer or other authorized individual, directing the contractor to make changes that the changes clause of the contract authorizes without the consent of the contractor.
Chief procurement officer means the person holding the position created in and governed by code sections 2-222, 2-250, 2-251, 2-252 and division 2 of this article, and any other Charter or Code provisions applicable.
Clock calibration means coordination of the bid clock with the time as indicated by the National Bureau of Standards.
Construction means the process of building, altering, repairing, remodeling, improving or demolishing any public structure or building or other public improvements of any kind to any public real property. It does not include the routine operation, routine repair or routine maintenance of structures, buildings or real property.
Contract means all types of city agreements, including purchase orders, regardless of what they may be called, for the procurement or disposal of supplies, services, construction, professional or consultant services and for the transfer of interests in real property.
Contract modification or change order means any written alteration in specifications, delivery point, time and rate of delivery, period of performance, price, quantity or other provision of any contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.
Contractor means any person having a contract with the city.
Cost analysis means the evaluation of cost data for the purpose of arriving at costs actually incurred or estimates of costs to be incurred, prices to be paid and costs to be reimbursed.
Cost data means factual information concerning the cost of labor, material, overhead and other cost elements that are expected to be incurred or which have been actually incurred by the contractor in performing the contract.
Cost reimbursement contract means a contract under which a contractor is reimbursed for costs, which are allowable and allocable in accordance with the contract terms and this article, and a fee or profit, if any.
Data means recorded information, regardless of form or characteristics.
Days means calendar days. In computing any period of time prescribed by the procurement code, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted. If the last day falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the party shall have through the following Monday. When the last day falls on a legal holiday observed by the city, the party shall have through the next day.
Designee means a duly authorized representative of a person.
Discussions means an exchange of information or other manner of negotiation during which the offeror and the city may alter or otherwise change the conditions, terms and price of the proposed contract. Discussions may be conducted in connection with competitive sealed proposals, sole source and emergency procurement. Discussions are not permissible in competitive sealed bidding, except to the extent permissible in the first phase of multi-step sealed bidding, when all competitive bids exceed available funds but the responsive bid does not exceed such funds by more than five percent or as otherwise permitted by applicable law.
Employee means an individual drawing a salary or compensation from the city, whether elected or not.
Firm means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint venture or other legal entity permitted by law to practice or offer professional or consultant services.
Grant agreement means any written agreement between the city and a grantor, or donor, or a proposed grant recipient, or beneficiary, which states in specific terms the amount and purposes of the grant, the conditions of the grant, if any, and pursuant to which a grant award is disbursed or otherwise satisfied. A grant agreement may also relate to gifts, bequests or donations.
Invitation for bids means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference, utilized for soliciting sealed bids.
Prequalification means the determination that a prospective offeror satisfies the criteria established for inclusion on the prequalified offeror's list.
Price analysis means the evaluation of price data, without price analysis of the separate cost components and profit as in cost analysis, which may assist in arriving at prices to be paid and costs to be reimbursed.
Price data means factual information concerning prices for items substantially similar to those being procured. Prices in this definition refer to offered or proposed selling prices. The definition refers to data relevant to both prime and subcontract prices.
Procurement means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services or construction. It also includes all functions that pertain to the obtaining of any supply, service or construction, including a description of requirements, selection and solicitation of sources, preparation and award of contracts and all phases of contract administration.
Professional and consultant services means those services within the scope of the practices of architecture, investment banking, professional engineering, planning, landscape architecture, land surveying, the medical arts, management and analysis, accounting or auditing, law, psychology or any other similar kind or type of professional practice. For purposes of this division, professional and consultant services shall not include investment management services.
Proposal means solicited submission of information from a prospective offeror in accordance with the terms of the applicable request for proposals and applicable law.
Purchase description means the words used in a solicitation to describe the supplies, services or construction to be purchased, including specifications attached to or made a part of the solicitation.
Purchase order means a short form of contract which is issued by the chief procurement officer at the written request of the using agency for the procurement of supplies, goods or services.
Qualified products list means an approved list of supplies, services or construction items described by model or catalogue numbers that, prior to competitive solicitation, the city has determined will meet the applicable specification requirements.
Request for proposals means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by reference, utilized for soliciting proposals.
Responsible offeror means any person who has the capability in all respects to perform fully the contract requirements and the tenacity, perseverance, experience, integrity, reliability, capacity, facilities, equipment and credit which will ensure good faith performance.
Responsive offeror means a person who has submitted an offer that conforms in all material respects to the invitation for bids or request for proposals.
Solicitation means an invitation for bids, a request for proposals, a request for quotations or any other document issued by the city concerning its soliciting bids or proposals to perform a city contract or purchase order.
Service means the furnishing of labor, time or effort by a contractor, not involving the delivery of a specific end product other than reports which are merely incidental to the required performance.
Supplies means all property, including, but not limited to, equipment, materials, printing, insurance and leases of real property, excluding land or a permanent interest in land.
Using agency means any city entity that utilizes any supplies, services, construction, professional or consultant services, real property and leases procured under this article.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1103. - Severability.
If any section or part of a section of this article or any application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other sections or part of a section or application of this article which can be given effect without the invalid section or part of a section or application, and to this end the sections and parts of sections of this article are declared to be severable.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1104. - Interpretation; purposes and policies.
(a)
Interpretation. This article shall be construed and applied to promote its underlying purposes and policies.
(b)
Purposes and policies. The underlying purposes and policies of this article are to:
(1)
Simplify, clarify, consolidate and modernize the law governing procurement and real estate for this city;
(2)
Permit the continued development of explicit and thoroughly considered procurement and real estate policies and practices;
(3)
Provide for centralized procurement for this city;
(4)
Ensure the fair and equitable treatment of all persons who deal with the procurement system and real estate transactions of this city;
(5)
Provide increased economy in city procurement and real estate activities and maximize to the fullest extent practicable the purchasing value of city funds;
(6)
Foster effective broad-based competition for public procurement within the free enterprise system; and
(7)
Provide safeguards for the maintenance of a procurement and real estate system of quality and integrity.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1105. - Application of article.
(a)
General application. This article applies to contracts for the procurement of supplies, services, construction, professional and consultant services and real estate, solicited or entered into by this city after 12:01 a.m. on November 1, 1983, unless the parties agree to its application to a contract solicited or entered into prior to such date.
(b)
Application to city procurements and real estate transactions. This article shall apply to every expenditure of public funds, irrespective of the source. It shall apply to the disposal of city supplies, as provided in division 8 of this article pertaining to supply management and to the disposal of city real property, as provided in division 14, subdivision III of this article pertaining to sale and disposition of real estate. Nothing in this article shall prevent any public agency from complying with the terms and conditions of any grant, gift, donation or bequest that are otherwise consistent with law and the operational procedures promulgated by the chief procurement officer as authorized in division 17
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1106. - Supplementary general principles of law applicable.
Unless displaced by the particular sections of this article, the principles of law and equity, including the uniform commercial code of the state, the law merchant, the law of real property and the law relative to capacity to contract, agency, fraud, misrepresentation, duress, coercion, mistake or bankruptcy, shall supplement this article.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1107. - Good faith actions.
This article requires all parties involved in the negotiation, performance or administration of city contracts to act in good faith. The term "good faith" means honesty in fact in the conduct or transaction concerned and the observance of reasonable commercial standards of fair dealing.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1108. - Procurement records.
(a)
Contract file. All determinations and other written records pertaining to the solicitation, award or performance of a contract or purchase order shall be maintained by the city in a contract file by the chief procurement officer.
(b)
Retention. All procurement records shall be retained and disposed of by the city in accordance with records retention guidelines and schedules approved by the city council. If a contract is being funded in whole or in part by assistance from a federal agency, all procurement records pertaining to that contract shall be maintained for three years from the closeout date of the assistance agreement or the final disposition of any controversy arising out of the assistance agreement.
(c)
Public access. Procurement information shall be a public record to the extent required by the laws of the state.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1109. - Compliance with federal requirements.
When the procurement or real estate transaction involves the expenditure of federal assistance or contract funds, the procurement or real estate transaction shall be conducted in accordance with any applicable mandatory federal law and authorized regulations which are not reflected in this article. Notwithstanding, where federal assistance or contract funds are used in a procurement or real estate transaction, requirements that are more restrictive than federal requirements shall be followed.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1110. - Construction of water treatment plant.
The construction and operation of a water treatment plant and appurtenances in North Fulton County, as a joint venture of the city and Fulton County, being necessary to serve the joint needs of the city and Fulton County in ensuring an adequate supply of potable water for their citizens, the Atlanta-Fulton County Water Resources Commission is authorized to contract for goods and services and to make purchases of real and personal property, in connection with the water treatment plant and appurtenances, subject to the following limitations:
(1)
The funds for the purchase of goods and services are available to the commission in line item appropriations of its approved budget.
(2)
Such contracts or purchases of goods and services do not exceed $20,000.00, except that contracts exceeding that amount are authorized:
a.
For goods or services for which the entity providing the goods or services is listed by name in its approved budget; or
b.
When the chair of the commission certifies that emergency circumstances exist and that failure to contract for goods or services to correct such circumstances would result in the loss of operations of the facilities and that insufficient time is available to secure specific approval of the contract by the city and Fulton County.
(3)
Such contracts are made pursuant to purchasing and minority participation procedures as determined by the commission.
(4)
Regardless of the amount and when jointly authorized by resolution of the city council and of Fulton County, all contracts that are reasonable and necessary for the construction of the water treatment facilities and appurtenances, including professional and consultant contracts, may be executed, provided that the funds for the contracts are available to the commission in line item appropriations of its approved budget.
(5)
All pertinent requirements of the joint venture agreement for the making of contracts and purchases have been met.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1111. - Limitation on work orders authorized under annual contracts.
Any using agency or bureau may expend up to $100,000.00 under an annual contract individually or in the aggregate with any one contractor. This limitation of $100,000.00 is imposed for the term of the contract. Where the expenditures under an annual contract by any using agency or bureau exceeds $100,000.00 for an individual project or work order or $100,000.00 in the aggregate for a particular contractor, such expenditures shall be subject to the approval of the city council, unless such contract authorizes the issuance of work authorizations or similar directives to the contractor in excess of $100,000.00 without further council approval.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1112. - Multiple awards; limitations on multiple awards.
(a)
Multiple awards. Unless otherwise provided in this section, or unless otherwise provided by law, two or more offerors may be awarded separate city contracts, at the discretion of the city, on the basis of one solicitation for the same or similar work, supplies or services if the city reserves the right to do so in the solicitation. Multiple contracts may be awarded, in the discretion of the city, for the procurement of annual contracts for supplies, annual contracts for construction, annual contracts for services, and annual contracts for professional and consultant services. The solicitation shall also include a statement that the city may, in its discretion, elect to award only one contract if the chief procurement officer, after consultation with the head of the using agency, determines in writing that one contract is sufficient for the needs anticipated by the city at the level of quality desired. Awards shall be made in accordance with the provisions of division 4 of this article. Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, however, if multiple awards are not anticipated in a solicitation prior to the deadline established for receipt of bids, proposals or quotations, multiple awards shall not be made under that solicitation.
(b)
Prohibition against multiple awards for the procurement of construction, services or professional and consultant services that are not annual contracts. Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, or unless otherwise provided by law, multiple city contracts shall not be awarded under one solicitation for the procurement of construction, services or professional and consultant services which are not annual contracts.
(c)
Inapplicability. This section shall not apply to the purchase, sale or disposition of real estate, nor shall this section apply to grant agreements, intergovernmental agreements or emergency procurements.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Sec. 2-1113. - Monetary limits; effective date.
To the extent that any monetary limits in this article specifically relate to monetary limits set forth in Article 3, Chapter 1, section 3-104(14), and Article 6, Chapter 4, section 6-402 of the City's Charter, to become effective on September 30, 2008, such monetary limits in this article will also become effective on September 30, 2008. Prior to such date, the previous monetary limits in this article will apply.
(Ord. No. 2009-78(09-O-1876), § 1, 12-15-09)
Secs. 2-1114—2-1137. - Reserved.
