DIVISION 5. - TAXICABS

Sec. 162-116. - Color scheme.
Each taxicab company shall have all of its taxicabs painted the same color, such color to be chosen by the company and approved by the bureau, and shall have all of its taxicabs marked with a uniform logo or insignia.
(Code 1977, § 14-8015)
Sec. 162-117. - Use of open stands.
(a)
The bureau shall maintain a list of all open taxicab stands. Taxicab stands shall be created by the bureau based on the criteria of traffic conditions, public necessity and convenience and the effect on police functions.
(b)
Open stands shall be used exclusively by taxicabs for which CPNCs have been issued by the city. No taxicab shall be placed upon or occupy any taxicab stand except for the purpose of being held forth for hire. Taxicabs shall be placed on stands only from the rear and shall be moved forward and to the front of the stand immediately as space becomes available by the departure or movement of preceding taxicabs. Violation of this rule constitutes line jumping and shall be grounds for suspension of a driver's permit. When a taxicab stand is occupied to its full capacity, no taxicab shall wait outside of a cab stand in violation of any traffic laws of the city. The driver of any taxicab occupying a stand shall not leave that taxicab unattended.
(c)
For purposes of this section, the airport taxicab waiting area known as the bull pen shall be considered a taxicab stand.
(Code 1977, § 14-8016; Ord. No. 1995-37, § 16, 7-11-95)
Sec. 162-118. - Schedule of fares.
(a)
All taxicab companies and drivers shall charge the following schedule of fares, except as otherwise provided in this section:
(1)
The first one-eighth mile, $2.50.
(2)
Each additional one-eighth mile, $0.25.
(3)
Waiting time, $21.00 per hour.
(4)
For each additional passenger in excess of one riding in the vehicle on the same trip, $2.00 per person. Only one child in the company of an adult will be charged the additional passenger fee; any additional children will not be charged any additional passenger fee. Children under six will not be charged.
(5)
There shall be no charge for use of additional space for luggage, trunks or cargo for which the trunk space in a four-door sedan would not be adequate.
(6)
A 20 percent discount on a metered fare be given to a disabled or senior citizen.
(7)
Fuel surcharge. Once the gasoline price for regular unleaded fuel has averaged between $2.90 and $4.39 over a 14 consecutive day period according to the AAA published data, there shall be imposed a fuel surcharge of $2.00 per trip.
(8)
Initial airport fare. A charge of $1.50 shall be applied to all taxicab services originating from the Atlanta Airport. No mileage, waiting time, or other charges are included in the initial airport fare. Additional Atlanta Airport flat rate zone fares shall apply in the manner set forth in this section.
Once the gasoline price for regular unleaded fuel has averaged more than $4.40 over a fourteen consecutive day period according to the AAA published data, there shall be imposed a fuel surcharge of $3.00 per trip.
(b)
For taxicab trips between (to and from) the Atlanta airport and destinations within the Downtown Flat Rate Zone described in subsection (d) of this section, passengers shall be charged a flat rate fare of $30.00, with an additional $2.00 charge for each passenger. In addition to such flat rate fares, a charge of $21.00 per hour of waiting time shall be imposed. If passengers on the same trip desire different destinations within the same flat fare zone, after the first stop, a $1.00 charge, in addition to the per-passenger fare, will be assessed to each passenger discharged.
For taxicab trips between (to and from) the Atlanta Airport and to a destination within the Buckhead Flat Rate Zone described in subsection (d) of this section, passengers shall be charged a flat rate fare of $40.00, with an additional $2.00 charge for each passenger. In addition to such flat rate fares, a charge of $21.00 per hour of waiting time shall be imposed. If passengers continue in the same flat fare zone, after the first stop, a $1.00 charge, in addition to the per-passenger fare, will be assessed to each passenger discharged.
For taxicab trips between (to and from) the Atlanta Airport and to a destination within the Midtown Flat Rate Zone described in subsection (d) of this section, passengers shall be charged a flat rate fare of $32.00, with an additional $2.00 charge for each passenger. In addition to such flat rate fares, a charge of $21.00 per hour of waiting time shall be imposed. If passengers continue in the same flat fare zone, after the first stop, a $1.00 charge, in addition to the per-passenger fare, will be assessed to each passenger discharged.
All fares listed in this section shall include applicable sales tax.
(c)
If two or more passengers enter the same taxicab at the airport and the destinations of such passengers are not all within the downtown zone, the passenger going to the downtown zone shall pay the flat rate as set out in subsection (b) of this section, and the remaining passenger shall pay the same fare as the first passenger plus the fare computed on the meter as set out in subsection (a) of this section for the remaining segment of the trip. If passengers on the same trip desire different locations within the same flat fare zone, after the first stop, a $1.00 charge or $0.50 for senior and disabled citizens, in addition to the per-passenger fare, will be addressed to each passenger discharged.
(d)
The legal description of the Downtown Flat Rate Zone shall be as follows:
Starting at the intersection of Ashby Street and North Avenue, then proceeding east on North Avenue to the intersection of North Avenue and Boulevard. Then proceeding south on Boulevard to the intersection of Boulevard and Atlanta Avenue. Then proceeding west on Atlanta Avenue to the intersection of Atlanta Avenue and Interstate 75/85. Then proceeding north on Interstate 75/85 to the intersection of Interstate 75/85 and Georgia Avenue. Then proceeding west on Georgia Avenue to the intersection of Georgia Avenue and Glenn Street. Then proceeding west on Glenn Street to Ralph David Abernathy Boulevard continuing west on to the intersection of Ralph David Abernathy Boulevard and Ashby Street. Then proceeding north on Ashby Street to the intersection of Ashby Street and North Avenue and the starting point.
The legal description of the Midtown Flat Rate Zone shall be as follows:
Starting at the intersection of North Avenue and Interstate 75/85, then proceeding east on North Avenue to the intersection of North Avenue and Boulevard. Then proceeding north on Boulevard to Monroe Drive continuing to the intersection of Monroe Drive and Piedmont Avenue. Then proceeding north on Piedmont Avenue to the intersection of Piedmont Avenue and Interstate 85. Then proceeding south on Interstate 85 to the intersection of Interstate 85 and Interstate 75. Then proceeding north on Interstate 75 to the intersection of Interstate 75 and Northside Drive. Then proceeding south on Northside Drive to the intersection of Northside Drive and North Avenue. Then proceeding east on North Avenue to the intersection of North Avenue and Interstate 75/85 and the starting point.
The legal description of the Buckhead Flat Rate Zone shall be as follows:
Starting at the intersection of Peachtree Road and Wieuca Road and proceeding east on Peachtree Road to Roxboro Road. Then proceeding south on Roxboro Road to West Roxboro Road continuing south of West Roxboro Road to the intersection of West Roxboro Road and Shady Valley Road. Then proceeding south on Shady Valley Road to Buford Highway continuing south to the intersection of Buford Highway. Then proceed south on Buford Highway to the intersection of Buford Road and Sidney Marcus Boulevard. Then proceed west on Sidney Marcus Boulevard to the intersection of Sidney Marcus Boulevard and Piedmont Road. Then proceed north on Piedmont Road to the intersection of Piedmont Road and East Wesley Road. Then proceed west on East Wesley Road, continuing to West Wesley Road to the intersection of West Wesley Road and Northside Drive. Then proceed north on Northside Drive to the intersection of Northside Drive and Hillside Drive. Then proceeding east on Hillside Drive to the intersection of Hillside Drive and Powers Ferry Road. Then proceeding north on Powers Ferry Road to the intersection of Powers Ferry Road and Wieuca Road. Then proceeding east on Wieuca Road to the intersection of Wieuca Road and Peachtree Road and the starting point.
(e)
For taxicab trips originating from a business (e.g. hotel, restaurant, mall, or other commercial enterprise) and concluding at another business within the Buckhead Flat Rate Zone described in subsection (d) above, a single passenger shall be charged $8.00. Each additional passenger on the same trip shall be charged $2.00. Trips engaged within the zone but destined to terminate outside the zone will be metered. Drivers are prohibited from engaging another passenger whose destination is more than a two-block diversion from the destination of any other passengers already engaged.
(f)
For taxicab trips originating from a business (e.g. hotel, restaurant, mall, or other commercial enterprise) and concluding at business within the Downtown Flat Rate Zone described in subsection (d) above, a single passenger shall be charged $8.00. Each additional passenger on the same trip shall be charged $2.00. Trips engaged within the zone but destined to terminate outside the zone will be metered. Drivers are prohibited from engaging another passenger whose destination is more than a two-block diversion from the destination of any other passengers already engaged. Drivers will be permitted to load and unload passengers at any location within the Downtown Zone unless such loading or unloading impedes the traffic flow or is unsafe for any other reason.
For taxicab trips originating from a business (e.g. hotel, restaurant, mall, or other commercial enterprise) and concluding at business within the Midtown Flat Rate Zone described in subsection (d) above, a single passenger shall be charged $8.00. Each additional passenger on the same trip shall be charged $2.00. Trips engaged within the zone but destined to terminate outside the zone will be metered. Drivers are prohibited from engaging another passenger whose destination is more than a two-block diversion from the destination of any other passengers already engaged.
(g)
The schedule of rates established in this section shall be mandatory and shall be charged by all taxicab drivers of all companies unless the mayor and council shall by ordinance provide otherwise.
(Code 1977, § 14-8020(a)—(g); Ord. No. 1995-37, § 18, 7-11-95; Ord. No. 1995-38, § 5, 7-11-95; Ord. No. 1996-10, 3-11-96; Ord. No. 2002-43, §§ 1—3, 5-28-02; Ord. No. 2002-69, §§ 1—5, 9-25-02; Ord. No. 2005-66, § 1, 10-25-05; Ord. No. 2005-79, § 1, 11-30-05; Ord. No. 2008-56(08-O-1125), §§ 1, 2, 7-14-08; Ord. No. 2009-25(08-O-2296), § 1, 5-12-09)
Sec. 162-119. - Abuse of driver by passenger prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for a taxicab passenger to abuse a taxicab driver.
(Code 1977, § 17-3020)
Secs. 162-120—162-130. - Reserved.
