APPENDIX A - GEORGIA CONSTITUTION 1983
ARTICLE IX. - COUNTIES AND MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS
****
SECTION II. HOME RULE FOR COUNTIES AND MUNICIPALITIES
Paragraph III. Supplementary powers.
(a)
In addition to and supplementary of all powers possessed by or conferred upon any county, municipality, or any combination thereof, any county, municipality, or any combination thereof may exercise the following powers and provide the following services:
(1)
Police and fire protection.
(2)
Garbage and solid waste collection and disposal.
(3)
Public health facilities and services, including hospitals, ambulance and emergency rescue services, and animal control.
(4)
Street and road construction and maintenance, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights, and devices to control the flow of traffic on streets and roads constructed by counties and municipalities or any combination thereof.
(5)
Parks, recreational areas, programs, and facilities.
(6)
Storm water and sewage collection and disposal systems.
(7)
Development, storage, treatment, purification, and distribution of water.
(8)
Public housing.
(9)
Public transportation.
(10)
Libraries, archives, and arts and sciences programs and facilities.
(11)
Terminal and dock facilities and parking facilities.
(12)
Codes, including building, housing, plumbing, and electrical codes.
(13)
Air quality control.
(14)
The power to maintain and modify heretofore existing retirement or pension systems, including such systems heretofore created by general laws of local application by population classification, and to continue in effect or modify other benefits heretofore provided as a part of or in addition to such retirement or pension systems and the power to create and maintain retirement or pension systems for any elected or appointed public officers and employees whose compensation is paid in whole or in part from county or municipal funds and for the beneficiaries of such officers and employees.
(b)
Unless otherwise provided by law.
(1)
No county may exercise any of the powers listed in subparagraph (a) of this Paragraph or provide any service listed therein inside the boundaries of any municipality or any other county except by contract with the municipality or county affected; and
(2)
No municipality may exercise any of the powers listed in subparagraph (a) of this Paragraph or provide any service listed therein outside its own boundaries except by contract with the county or municipality affected.
(c)
Nothing contained within this Paragraph shall operate to prohibit the General Assembly from enacting general laws relative to the subject matters listed in subparagraph (a) of this Paragraph or to prohibit the General Assembly by general law from regulating, restricting, or limiting the exercise of the powers listed therein; but it may not withdraw any such powers.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (b) of this Paragraph, the General Assembly shall act upon the subject matters listed in subparagraph (a) of this Paragraph only by general law.
