ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 74-1. - Reserved.
Sec. 74-2. - Fire hydrant testing, maintenance and identification.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to provide a standard system for hydrant color identification and establish a practice of maintenance for fire hydrants within the service area of the Bartow County Fire Department. These provisions shall incorporate by reference the American Water Works Association (AWWA) manual M17, "Installation, Field Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Hydrants"; the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 291 latest edition, defining Fire Flow Testing and Marking Hydrants; and Insurance Service Organization (ISO) standards for fire hydrant testing, collectively referred to herein as the "Standards."
(b)
Testing required. All fire hydrants within the service area of the Bartow County Fire Department shall be flowed and tested in accordance with the Standards. The testing shall determine the gallons per minute (GPM) fire flow for that hydrant. Testing shall be coordinated with the water system that operates the system upon which the hydrant is located. Proper public notice shall be issued in advance of any testing to ensure the public is aware of potential water discoloration.
(c)
Color coding. After testing, each hydrant shall then be color coded in accordance with NFPA 291, as follows:
Standard Hydrants
EXPAND
GMP Flow rate Paint Color
Barrels: Any Safety Yellow
Bonnets and Caps: less than 500 Safety Red
500 to 999 Safety Orange
1,000 to 1,499 Safety Green
1,500 or greater Safety Blue
Trim of Bonnet: Any Silver or White Reflective (if available)
  Disclaimer: Color coding is only descriptive of what GPM flow was at the time of the last documented test. It in no way guarantees that the hydrant will flow that GPM at the time of an incident and does not take into account any high demands, broken mains, closed valves or other events that could affect GPM flow. Color coding is only used as a general reference to what the potential flow may be at any given time and citizens and staff should be aware and prepared for GPM changes.
Special Hydrants:
EXPAND
Bastard thread hydrant (Non-NST): Caps — gloss black
Private hydrant: Barrel, bonnet and caps — solid red
Out of service hydrant: Barrel, bonnet and caps — safety yellow or clearly marked with a covering to identify out of service status.
  (d)
Maintenance procedures. An annual maintenance schedule and visual check program shall be established by the Bartow County Fire Department. Personnel and citizen safety shall be a high priority. All fire hydrants are to be opened and closed very slowly to prevent water hammer, line damage and equipment failure.
(e)
Recording data. All test data shall be maintained in the Bartow County Fire Department records as well as the records of the relevant water system owning the hydrant. A record of malfunctions, corrections and system changes shall be recorded. Any malfunction of the system, while performing work on the system, is to be immediately reported to the battalion chief, who will in turn notify appropriate water system officials.
( Ord. of 9-10-2014, § I )
Secs. 74-3—74-30. - Reserved.
