DIVISION 9. - CERTIFICATES

Sec. 18-321. - Certificate of occupancy required.
A new building shall not be occupied or a change made in the occupancy, nature or use of a building or part of a building until after the building official has issued a certificate of occupancy (C.O.). Said certificate shall not be issued until all required electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing and fire protection systems have been inspected and are in compliance with the standard building codes and other applicable laws and ordinances and released by the building official.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-322. - Issuance of certificate of occupancy.
Upon satisfactory completion of construction of a building or structure and installation of electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems in accordance with the standard building codes, reviewed plans and specifications, and after the final inspection, the community development director, or his/her designee, shall issue a certificate of occupancy stating the nature of the occupancy permitted.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1); Ord. of 11-4-2020(2) , § V)
Sec. 18-323. - Temporary/partial C.O.
A temporary/partial certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion of a building, which may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-324. - Application requirements.
A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the building official and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with the standard building codes for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the opinion of the building official, two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of the standard building codes and other applicable laws and ordinances for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-325. - Certificate of completion.
Upon satisfactory completion of a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, a certificate of completion may be issued. This certificate does not grant authority to occupy a building, such as a shell building, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Secs. 18-326—18-345. - Reserved.
