DIVISION 5. - PERMITS

Sec. 18-161. - Permits.
The building official is authorized to issue permits under the standard building codes, and to make inspections in relation to enforcing and administering those codes and this chapter.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-162. - Exemptions.
A building permit shall not be required for the following structures or mechanical work:
(1)
A personal storage building or personal garage which is less than 200 square feet and will not be used for income producing activities nor as a living quarters;
(2)
A structure used for housing animals, poultry, etc., or for other agricultural practices, which is not open to the public;
(3)
Any portable heating appliance;
(4)
Any portable ventilation equipment;
(5)
Any portable cooling unit;
(6)
Any steam, hot or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling equipment regulated by the Code;
(7)
Replacement of any part which does not alter its approval or make it unsafe;
(8)
Any portable evaporative cooler; or
(9)
Any self-contained refrigeration system containing ten pounds (4.54 kg.) or less of refrigerant and actuated by motors of one horsepower (746 W) or less.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1); Ord. of 3-7-2018(1) )
Sec. 18-163. - Minor repairs exempted.
Ordinary minor repairs may be made without a permit, provided that such repairs shall not violate any of the provisions of the standard building codes.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-164. - Consultation for Rome Cartersville development corridor project.
(a)
Parcels of land potentially affected by the Georgia Department of Transportation Project (PI 0013238), known as the "Rome Cartersville Development Corridor" (RCDC) are shown on the map entitled "Rome-Cartersville Development Corridor Parcel Map," dated September 15, 2021 and maintained in the office of the Community Development Department at 135 W Cherokee Avenue, Cartersville. Said map is incorporated herein by reference. This map shall be referred to herein as the "RCDC Parcel Map."
(b)
The community development department shall review the RCDC parcel map for all building permits requested after the date of adoption of this section. If the building permit is requested for a parcel shown as potentially affected by the RCDC on the RCDC parcel map, the community development department shall review the application and decide if it can be concluded with certainty that the proposed construction will not have a potential impact of on the RCDC project (for example, an applicant seeks to build a small garage that is hundreds of feet from any proposed right-of-way on a large parcel). If it can be clearly determined there will be no impact, the community development department can proceed with normal permit review and approval. However, if that cannot be clearly determined, applicants shall be required to do the following further consultation:
(1)
Contact GDOT District 6 Office (located at 30 Great Valley Parkway, White, GA) and obtain the latest plans for the RCDC.
(2)
Show such proposed plans on their building or site plan.
(3)
Schedule a meeting to consult with GDOT regarding whether their project impacts the RCDC.
(4)
Work with GDOT to find a mutually satisfactory solution so that the proposed project does not negatively impact the RCDC project.
(c)
Direct access to the RCDC is not permitted by GDOT and the applicant shall have to show access to their property via other roadways.
(d)
Bartow County will not approve building permits subject to this section unless the county receives a letter of concurrence from GDOT District 6 that the proposed project or activity does not have a negative impact on the RCDC.
(Ord. of 9-15-2021(2) , § I)
Sec. 18-165. - Applications and review.
All applicants for a building permit shall submit an application as required, with the information specified in division 6 and such other information as is required. The building official shall examine or cause to be examined each application for a permit and the accompanying documents, consisting of drawings, specifications, computations, or such other data as is required by the building official, and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the construction appears to be in accordance with the requirements of the standard building codes and all other pertinent laws or ordinances.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-166. - Permit decision.
The building official shall act upon an application for a permit without unreasonable or unnecessary delay, within 30 days from the submission of an application deemed complete. If the building official is satisfied that the work described in an application for a permit and the contract documents filed therewith conform to the requirements of the standard building codes and other pertinent laws and ordinances, he shall issue a permit to the applicant.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-167. - Permit issuance.
When the building official issues a permit that requires plans to be submitted, he shall endorse, in writing or by stamp, both sets of plans "Reviewed for Issuance of Construction Permit." One set of drawings so reviewed shall be retained by the building official and the other set shall be returned to the applicant. The permitted drawings shall be kept at the site of work and shall be open to inspection by the building official or his authorized representative. In the event the particular permit does not require plans to be submitted, only a copy of the permit shall be kept by the building official.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-168. - Permit duration.
A permit issued shall be construed to be a license to proceed with the work and not as authority to violate, cancel, alter, or set aside any of the provisions of the standard building codes, nor shall issuance of a permit prevent the building officer from thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans, construction, or violations of this chapter. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is completed within 12 months after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 12 months after the time the work is commenced. One or more extensions of time, for periods not more than 12 months, may be allowed for the permit.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-169. - Permit posted.
Work requiring a permit shall not commence until the permit holder or his agent posts the permit card in a conspicuous place on the premises. Such permits must be placed on a post or other structure at least three feet off the ground and no more than two feet back from the right of way, so as to be easily visible to the inspectors and passers-by. The permittee shall be responsible for insuring a clear and legible permit is on display at all times. If permit is not properly posted, no scheduled inspections will occur, and a re-inspection fee will be charged before any further inspections will be scheduled. In the event of damage or loss, a replacement permit shall be immediately obtained and displayed. This permit card shall be maintained in such position by the permit holder until the certificate of occupancy or completion is issued by the building official.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-170. - Reserved.
Sec. 18-171. - Denial of permit.
If the application for a permit and the accompanying contract documents describing the work do not conform to the requirements of the standard building codes or other pertinent laws or ordinances, the building official shall not issue a permit, but shall return the contract documents to the applicant with his refusal to issue such permit. Such refusal shall, when requested, be in writing and shall contain the reason for refusal. Appeals shall be to the construction board of adjustments and appeals.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-172. - Special foundation permit.
When an application for permit to erect or enlarge a building has been filed and pending issuance of such permit, the building official may, at his discretion, issue a special permit for the foundation only. The holder of such a special permit is proceeding at his own risk and without assurance that a permit for the remainder of the work will be granted nor that corrections will not be required in order to meet provisions of the standard building codes.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-173. - Compliance with licensing requirements.
It shall be the duty of every contractor who contracts for the installation or repairs of building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical, sprinkler or plumbing systems, for which a permit is required, to comply with all state or local rules and regulations concerning licensing which the county has adopted. In cases where the state requires a contractor to have obtained a state license before they are permitted to perform work, the contractor shall supply the local government with their license number before receiving a permit for work to be performed.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Secs. 18-174—18-200. - Reserved.
