DIVISION 10. - ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES

Sec. 74-438. - Notification of violation.
When the superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of violation. Within seven days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof to include specific required actions shall be submitted by the user to the superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 53)
Sec. 74-439. - Consent orders.
The county may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance with a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to sections 74-440 and 74-441 of this article and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 54)
Sec. 74-440. - Show cause hearing.
The superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the superintendent and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. If the superintendent chooses to have such a hearing, notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least 30 days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 55)
Sec. 74-441. - Compliance orders.
When the superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, device or other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established or pretreatment standard or requirement, not does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 56)
Sec. 74-442. - Cease and desist orders.
(a)
When the superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the superintendent may issue an order to the user and/or owner directing them to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
(1)
Immediately comply with all requirements; and
(2)
Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
(b)
Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 57)
Sec. 74-443. - Administrative fines.
(a)
When the superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to exceed $1,000.00 per day. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
(b)
Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 15 calendar days, be assessed an additional penalty of 15 percent of the unpaid balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of one and one-half percent per month. A lien against the user's property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties but only in circumstances where the sewer user (or account holder) is the owner of the property.
(c)
Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for the superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit, the superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The superintendent may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
(d)
Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against or a prerequisite for taking any other action against the user.
(e)
Bartow County reserves the right to impose unpaid charges, fees, penalties and interest from an account in arrears onto any other Bartow County account held by the same person or entity.
(f)
Bartow County reserves the right to require payment for any unpaid charges, fees, penalties and interest incurred by a person or entity in connection with a current or former account prior to establishing any new water or sewer service for such person or entity.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 58; Ord. of 4-6-2005(1), § II)
Sec. 74-444. - Emergency suspensions.
(a)
The superintendent may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after informal notice to user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The superintendent may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
(1)
Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The superintendent may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the superintendent that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings under this section are initiated against the users.
(2)
A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrences to the superintendent prior to the date of any show cause or termination hearing under section 74-439 and this section of this article.
(b)
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 59)
Sec. 74-445. - Termination of discharge.
(a)
In addition to the other provisions in this article, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge termination:
(1)
Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
(2)
Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of its discharge;
(3)
Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
(4)
Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
(5)
Violation of the pretreatment standards in this article.
(b)
Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under section 74-440 of this article why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the superintendent shall not be a bar to, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 60)
Sec. 74-446. - Termination of service; creation of lien for unpaid amounts; interest.
(a)
In addition to, or in lieu of, taking any other action available under this article, in order to enforce the operation of this article, the county shall have the power and authority to enter upon the property of any user who has violated any provision of this article following issuance of a cease and desist order (as provided in section 74-442) to terminate the user's sewer and/or water service in any manner deemed necessary and appropriate by the county. The county may also enter upon property and terminate service when an account is overdue, without further notice.
(b)
In the event of such termination under this section, the county shall retain all rights to collect unpaid bills or amounts owed by the terminated user according to law or other provisions of this article. Unpaid charges for a terminated service may be sought from the account holder and imposed on any other account the account holder has with Bartow County, or may be imposed if the account holder ever seeks to reestablish water or sewer service with Bartow County.
(c)
Past due amounts shall bear interest at the rate of one and one-half percent per month.
(d)
Past due amounts shall constitute a lien upon the premises served, but only in circumstances where the sewer user (or account holder) is the owner of the property.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 61; Ord. of 4-6-2005(1), § III)
Secs. 74-447—74-460. - Reserved.
