DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 18-21. - Title
This chapter shall be known as the "Bartow County Building Code Ordinance."
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-22. - Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the administration and enforcement of the Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes heretofore adopted by the State of Georgia and additional optional codes as hereinafter designated and adopted by Bartow County. It is further the purpose of this chapter to:
(1)
Protect the public health, safety and welfare by ensuring that new construction is built according to the Standard Building Codes and in a safe and sound manner, so as not to pose a hazard to the occupants or other structures or persons;
(2)
Protect the public health, safety and welfare by ensuring that existing repairs and renovation of existing buildings are constructed according to the Standard Building Codes and in a safe and sound manner, so as not to pose a hazard to the occupants or other structures or persons;
(3)
Achieve compliance with all applicable state and federal regulations;
(4)
Provide for and require the erection of safe structures, to provide for adequate sanitation and health, and to provide for adequate fire protection, proper load bearing and other safety measures;
(5)
Prevent the erection of unpermitted or unsafe structures and to prevent the unsafe repair of structures; and
(6)
Prevent nuisances and to provide for abatement of nuisances, and to prevent public hazards, unsafe or unfit structures and the associated negative impacts on neighboring properties.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-23. - Definitions.
The following words shall have the following meanings in this chapter. Except as specifically defined herein all words used in this chapter shall carry their customary meaning as defined by a standard dictionary:
Accessory use means a use located on the same lot as the principal use, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the permitted use and which does not change the character of such use, including, but not limited to, private garages, bathhouses, greenhouses, tool sheds, storage buildings, or similar.
Building means any structure intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property, and usually having a roof supported by columns or by walls.
Building, accessory means a detached structure designed for the use of which is clearly incidental to and subordinate to the principal structure or use of the land, and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use.
Building, principal means a building in which is conducted the main use of the lot on which said building is located.
Building official means the Bartow County Community Development Director, or a duly authorized designee, which includes the Bartow County Building Official.
Commercial means an activity undertaken for profit, income, or other business purposes, including sales or manufacture of goods or items, sale of animals, and boarding, training, and breeding of animals, and similar activities.
Department means the Bartow County Community Development Department.
Developer means the owner of, or person responsible for, a development.
Development or to develop means subdividing a tract of land into three or more lots whether for sale or rental, for commercial, industrial, office or residential purposes, or some combination thereof. It shall also include redevelopment of existing development. It shall also include the construction of any commercial, industrial, multi-family or office building or structure, even if on a single lot, and shall include the construction of a manufactured home park. In order that the purposes of this chapter shall not be evaded by piecemeal development or subdivision, subdividing a tract of land existing on November 9, 2005 into two tracts shall not be a development, but any further split of either tract shall be a development.
Dwelling means a building or other structure designed, arranged, or used for temporary or permanent living quarters for one or more persons.
Dwelling unit means a building or portion thereof, providing complete living facilities for one family.
Family means an individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption living together in a dwelling unit; or a group of not more than six persons who need not be related by blood, marriage, or adoption, living together in a dwelling unit. For purposes of this chapter, "a family" may include five or fewer foster children placed in a family foster home licensed by the State of Georgia, but shall not include fraternities, sororities, nursing homes, or rest homes.
Hazardous occupancy means any occupancy involving sufficient quantities of highly combustible or explosive materials which because of their inherent characteristics constitute a special hazard. Also, buildings and structures occupied for the manufacturing, processing, dispensing, use or storage of hazardous materials. Also, any occupancy defined as Group H in the Standard Building Codes.
Industrialized housing means a factory fabricated dwelling or commercial unit built in one or more sections designed to fit together on a foundation but which usually does not originally have wheels for movement and which is constructed in accordance with the Georgia Industrialized Building Act (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110) and which bears the seal of approval issued by the commissioner of community affairs.
Land-disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land, but not including agricultural operations and forestry.
Land disturbance permit means a permit granted under the Bartow County Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance that provides the authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of that ordinance and this chapter.
Line, lot means the boundary line of a lot.
Line, yard means a line drawn parallel to a lot line at a distance therefrom equal to the depth of the required setback.
Lot means a developed or undeveloped tract of land having defined boundaries and legally transferable as a single unit of land; does not refer to public rights-of-way.
Lot of record means any lot identified on a final subdivision plat approved by Bartow County and recorded in the office of the Clerk of Bartow Superior Court is a lot of record. Any lot described in a deed, sales contract or survey, that was recorded in the office of the Bartow County Recorder before September 30, 1993 is a lot of record. Any lot described in a deed, sales contract, or survey that was recorded after September 30, 1993 and the present, and which complied with the zoning requirements in effect at the time of its creation, is a lot of record.
Lot, depth of means the mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
Lot, width of means the distance between side lot lines.
Manufactured house (mobile home) means a detached, single-family dwelling unit designed for long-term occupancy and constructed in one of more units with wheels for movement (whether or not such wheels are later removed) and which has plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems, whether or not such unit is subsequently installed on a foundation or other internal or external changes are made. See sections 18-120 through 18-123 for further regulations.
Occupancy means the use or intended use of a building or part thereof or a premises outside of the buildings.
Setback means the open space between the lot line and the yard line, which shall be unobstructed by any structure other than as expressly permitted in the Bartow County Zoning Ordinance.
Standard building codes means the state minimum standard codes as defined by O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B)(i)(I) through (XI), as amended from time to time by the department of community affairs. Codes included are as follows:
(1)
International Building Code (ICC);
(2)
National Electrical Code (NFPA);
(3)
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC);
(4)
International Mechanical Code (ICC);
(5)
International Plumbing Code (ICC);
(6)
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings (ICC);
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code (ICC); and
(8)
International Fire Code (ICC).
Swimming pool means any artificial water-holding structure with a closed-loop circulation of water through a water treatment system with a return to the pool that is intended for use as a swimming pool and that is over 24 inches in depth at any point and that has a water surface area exceeding 250 square feet, and/or a water volume exceeding 3,250 gallons.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1); Ord. of 3-11-2020(1) , § I; Ord. of 11-4-2020(2) , § III)
Secs. 18-24—18-30. - Reserved.
