Chapter 8 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Bingo, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-50 et seq.; Amusement Ride Safety Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-15-50 et seq.; Carnival Ride Safety Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-15-80 et seq.; operators of billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 8-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Gameroom, as used herein, means any establishment which realizes any portion of its revenue from coin-operated pool or billiard tables or coin-operated game machines of any kind, such as, for example only, pinball, baseball, or video games.
Poolroom and billiard hall, when used herein, shall have the same definitions as used for the terms "billiards" and "billiard room" in O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1, as said statute now exists or shall be amended from time to time.
(Code 2000, § 14-1; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1.
Sec. 8-2. - Application; filing form; contents.
All persons 18 years of age or older desiring to obtain a license required for the operation of a poolroom, gameroom, or billiard hall shall make written application at the city business license office. Such application shall state the name and address of the applicant; the place where the proposed business is to be located; the nature and character of the business to be carried on; if a partnership, the names of the partners; if a corporation, the names of the officers and stockholders; and such other information as may be required by the director of the business license office or the police department; and be sworn to by the applicant or agent thereof. All persons desiring an application shall pay to the city a fee of $75.00.
(Code 2000, § 14-3; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-3. - Investigation of applicant.
(a)
All applicants shall be investigated by the city police department, and a report shall be made to the city clerk. This requirement shall be waived if a current investigation report is on file. The term "current" is defined as being within the past six months.
(b)
The police reports shall be sent to the city clerk to be placed in the applicant's file.
(Code 2000, § 10-151; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-4. - Grounds for refusal of license.
(a)
No license shall be issued to any person, partnership, corporation, or any individual having an interest, directly or indirectly, either as owner, partner, or principal stockholder, who shall have been convicted or shall have taken a plea of nolo contendere, within the past five years immediately prior to the filing of said application, for any felony of any state or of the United States. The term "conviction" shall include an adjudication of guilt, a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime.
(b)
No license shall be issued where there is evidence that the granting of such license will have an adverse impact on the health, safety, or welfare of the public.
(Code 2000, § 14-4; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-5. - Sanitary and toilet facilities.
The place of business shall have separate restrooms for males and females. Such restrooms must be kept clean, and the premises shall be in compliance with all applicable rules and regulations of the county health department or departments of the city.
(Code 2000, § 14-5; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-6. - Serving food.
If food is served, the applicant shall have a valid health certificate issued by the county health department before any license can be issued.
(Code 2000, § 14-6; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-7. - Hours of operation.
Licensees for the operation of a poolroom, gameroom, or billiard hall shall be permitted to engage in such activities between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Code 2000, § 14-7; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-8. - Violations and grounds for revocation of license.
The commission of any of the following acts by a licensee, agent, or employee of a poolroom, gameroom, or billiard hall shall be a violation of law and grounds for revocation of a billiard license:
(1)
Engaging in, or permitting or allowing on the premises, sales, in violation of state or federal law, of "controlled substances," as that term is defined by state and/or federal law. The terms "permitting" and "allowing," as used herein, include sales where the owner or operator in charge knew, or, in the exercise of ordinary care, should have known, that such sales were taking place and failed to take effective action to stop them.
(2)
Permitting persons to loiter on the premises without legitimate business reasons, who are known to the owner or operator or manager in charge of such business, or who, in the exercise of ordinary care, should be known to them, or who are reputed to be illegal sellers or purveyors of controlled substances as heretofore defined.
(3)
Permitting any gambling or betting in the place of business or on the premises.
(4)
Permitting or committing any violation of state law or city ordinance.
(5)
It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to play billiards in, or for any other purpose to enter or remain in, a poolroom, gameroom, or billiard hall during hours and times when alcoholic beverages are sold, consumed, or dispensed therein. This subsection shall not apply to persons under 18 years of age who are accompanied by a parent or guardian. Any person desiring admission thereto during hours and times when alcoholic beverages are sold, consumed, or dispensed who is or appears to be under 18 years of age shall produce satisfactory identification and age verification, certify his age in writing, or produce a written permit before he shall be allowed entry.
(Code 2000, § 14-8; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-9. - Transferability of license.
A license for the operation of a poolroom, gameroom, or billiard hall shall not be transferable except by application to the license review board in the same form and manner as an original application.
(Code 2000, § 14-9; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-10. - Gambling devices prohibited.
No dice, cards, dominoes, or other games of chance shall be permitted, nor any form of gambling allowed, in any poolroom, gameroom, or billiard hall or in any other business place operated in connection therewith; and such games as kelly pool, keno, pigeon pool, star pool, scrub, and similar gambling devices are prohibited. No racing or other betting pool shall be exhibited or sold in such place of business. The use of baseball tickers and the posting of results of sporting events is expressly prohibited in billiard rooms or in any place operated in connection therewith. No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, served, or allowed to be used in or on the premises of any poolroom, gameroom, or billiard hall or any place operated in connection therewith, except that this prohibition shall not apply if such premises or establishment is an establishment which is authorized to sell alcoholic beverages.
(Code 2000, § 14-10; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-11. - Further restrictions.
It shall be unlawful for any poolroom, gameroom, or billiard hall to maintain connections with any place where gambling or illegal activity is conducted or where persons congregate for the illegal consumption, sale, possession, barter, manufacture, exchange, purchase, dispensation, delivery, or other dealing in of alcoholic beverages for any immoral purpose.
(Code 2000, § 14-11; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-12. - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the police or other constituted authorities to inspect all public poolrooms, gamerooms, and billiard halls in the city for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not the provisions of this chapter are being observed; and it shall be the duty of such officer to report all violations promptly to the city attorney and furnish the city attorney such information and assistance, as is necessary for the prosecution of such violations. Whenever the state shall revoke any permit or license held by the licensee, the license shall thereupon be automatically revoked without any action of the city council.
(Code 2000, § 14-12; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-13. - Exemption.
This chapter shall not apply to billiard tables or billiard rooms operated by private industrial concerns; Young Men's Christian Associations; religious orders; charitable institutions; state, county, or city institutions; fraternal orders; or bona fide clubs using such tables for members or employees only.
(Code 2000, § 14-13; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-14. - Additional grounds to revoke or suspend a license to operate a poolroom, gameroom, or billiard hall.
In addition to revocation or suspension of a license for the reasons hereinabove specified, the license to operate a poolroom, gameroom, or billiard hall may be further revoked for violation of any of the following standards:
(1)
In the event the licensee permits public drunkenness and disorderly conduct among his patrons or employees after having been warned by a city officer, such failure to act shall be grounds for revocation or suspension.
(2)
In the event the licensee receives notice from police, city, or county officials of any violations of any section other than the above, without correction thereof, such failure to act shall be grounds for automatic revocation.
(3)
In the event of the violation of any state or federal laws by the licensee or by his agents or servants on the premises, said violations shall be grounds for revocation or suspension.
(4)
In the event of conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude by the licensee off premises, said conviction shall be grounds for revocation or suspension.
(Code 2000, § 14-14; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-15. - Appeals.
(a)
No license required by this chapter shall be denied, suspended, or revoked without the opportunity for a hearing.
(b)
The business license director shall provide written notice to the owner/applicant and licensee of his order to deny, suspend, or revoke the license. Such written notification shall set forth, in reasonable detail, the reasons for such action and shall notify the owner/applicant and licensee of his right to appeal under the provisions of this chapter. Any owner/applicant or licensee who is aggrieved or adversely affected by a final action of the business license director may have a review thereof, in accordance with the appeal procedures specified in this chapter.
(Code 2000, § 14-15; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-16. - Notices.
For the purposes of this chapter, notice shall be deemed delivered when personally served or when served by mail within three days after the date of deposit in the U.S. mail.
(Code 2000, § 14-16; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 8-17. - Penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter may, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment in the common jail of the county for a period not to exceed 180 days for each offense.
(Code 2000, § 14-17; Ord. of 8-6-2001, § 1(exh. A))
