Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local licensing of malt beverage sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-40 et seq.; local licensing of wine sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40; public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41; furnishing alcoholic beverages to persons under 21 years of age, etc., jurisdiction of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10; driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, etc., O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bar means any premises at which a retailer, licensed pursuant to this chapter to sell alcoholic beverages, derives 75 percent or more total annual gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises.
Conviction means an adjudication of guilt or a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere, or the forfeiture of bond by a person charged with a crime.
Disciplinary action means any citation or arrest arising out of the violation of any law, rule, regulation, resolution, or ordinance of a governmental entity relating to the manufacture, distribution, sale, or possession of alcoholic beverages against a licensee, an employee of a licensee, or any person holding a financial interest in the license of a licensee on the premises or place of business of any licensee.
Distance shall be measured by the most direct route traveled on the ground.
Governmental entity means the United States government, any state government, any local government, and any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof.
License means the authorization by the city council to engage in the sale of malt beverages and/or wine.
Licensee means any person issued a license pursuant to this chapter by a governmental entity to operate a bar.
Malt beverages and wine mean those beverages defined as such by O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Minor means any person to whom the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
On-premises consumption means the consumption of an alcoholic beverage by the drink on the premises where the drink is purchased.
Premises means the definite, closed or partitioned-in locality, whether a room, shop, or building, wherein malt beverages and/or wine are sold and any and all surrounding and adjacent areas, whether enclosed or not, which are owned by or under the control of the person to whom the license is issued.
Retail sale means selling or offering for sale any malt beverage and/or wine to any member of the public.
School or college means such state, county, city, church or other school that teaches the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of the state, to include licensed preschool and/or kindergarten facilities, and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects, such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations, and other special subjects are taught.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.1); Ord. No. 2016-0606-4, § 4, 6-6-2016)
Sec. 6-2. - Public possession or consumption.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any alcoholic beverage upon city property or upon any open premises adjacent to any public business in the city, whether or not such person is located in a vehicle.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his hand any open container used, or which has been used, for alcoholic beverages upon city property or upon any open premises adjacent to any public business in the city.
(c)
This section shall not be applicable to the parking lot or other premises of a duly licensed business selling alcoholic beverages where curb service is regularly provided by employees of such a business; however, this section is expressly applicable to such businesses where customers service themselves, which is to say, where the customer makes his purchase and returns to a vehicle or the outside premises of such business.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.2))
Sec. 6-3. - Minors on premises.
It shall be unlawful to allow any minor on the premises of any business or establishment when 30 percent or more of the gross receipts of the business during the prior license year were from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.3))
State Law reference— Alcohol and underage persons, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23 et seq.
Sec. 6-4. - General operational regulations.
(a)
No holder of a license authorizing the retail sale of alcoholic beverages in the city, or any agent or employee of the licensee, shall permit on the licensed premises any disorderly conduct or breach of peace.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for establishments to permit the sale or consumption of any alcoholic beverage upon the premises without obtaining the appropriate license permitting such sale or consumption.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.4); Ord. No. 2016-0606-4, § 2, 6-6-2016)
Sec. 6-5. - Hours of operation.
(a)
Retail and wholesale dealers of malt beverages and wine shall not engage in the sale of such beverages except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 1:30 a.m. on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays; between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:30 a.m. on Thursdays and Fridays; between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Saturdays; and on Sundays between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. No licensee under this chapter shall permit such person's place of business to be open for the sale of alcoholic beverages on days during which or upon which the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by law.
(b)
Establishments having an on-premises consumption license issued pursuant to section 6-34(d) and realizing 50 percent or greater of their business, as measured by gross receipts, from the sale of food, may be permitted to be opened for any reason on Sundays, Christmas Day, or any other days on which the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by state law. Provided, however, no alcoholic beverages may be sold.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.5); Ord. of 7-6-2015, § 1)
State Law reference— Restrictions of days of sale of alcohol, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 6-6. - Use of licensed wholesalers.
Alcoholic beverages shall be received at or delivered to the premises of the retail licensee by no other means than by a conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a permit from the state and a license from the city to make deliveries in the city. Transportation of such beverages by any other means shall be grounds for revocation of the retail license or wholesale license.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.6))
Sec. 6-7. - Penalties.
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute an offense punishable as provided in section 1-8.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.8))
Secs. 6-8—6-32. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MALT BEVERAGES, WINE, AND DISTILLED SPIRITS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 1, adopted Dec. 6, 2021, changed the title of art. II from "Malt Beverages and Wine" to read as herein set out.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-33. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Doerun Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance."
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.11))
Sec. 6-34. - General provisions.
(a)
The sale of alcoholic beverages shall be legal in the city, subject to the following terms, conditions, and restrictions, and upon full compliance by all persons engaged in business under the provisions of this article.
(b)
The license granted hereunder shall be a mere grant or privilege to carry on a business during the term of the license, subject to all the terms and conditions imposed herein and by related laws located in the applicable provisions of state law and other city ordinances relating to business licenses.
(c)
Licenses may be granted for the purpose of package sales of malt beverages and/or wine.
(d)
Licenses may be granted for the purpose of the sale of malt beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold if the establishment seeking the license, during the 12 months immediately preceding the granting of the annual license, or such portion thereof as it shall have been in operation, realized 50 percent or more of its gross income from the sale of food.
(e)
Licenses may be granted for the purpose of package sales of distilled spirits.
(f)
No more than two licenses for the package sale of distilled spirits shall be granted within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.12); Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 2, 12-6-2021; Ord. No. 2022-09 , § 1, 2-7-2022)
Sec. 6-35. - Excise tax—Malt beverages.
There is hereby levied and imposed upon all wholesale dealers selling malt beverages within the city a specific excise tax in the amount of $0.05 per 12-ounce container, or any portion thereof, so as to graduate the tax on bottles, cans, and containers of various sizes of malt beverages sold by each wholesale dealer within the city, and an excise tax on tap or draft beer in the amount of $6.00 for each container sold, as hereinafter specified, containing not more than 15½ gallons, and at a like rate for fractional parts, where the beverage is sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, such beverage being commonly known as tap or draft beer.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.13))
State Law reference— Local excise tax, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80 et seq.
Sec. 6-36. - Same—Wine.
(a)
Rate of levy. There is hereby set and levied on the sale of wine, excluding fortified wine, an excise tax in the sum of $0.22 per wine liter and in similar proportion for bottles and containers of various sizes.
(b)
Against whom levied. The wine excise tax shall be paid by each licensed wholesale dealer in wine in the city.
(c)
Due date and required report. The wine excise tax shall be paid on or before the tenth day of the month following the calendar month in which the beverages are sold or disposed of, and payment shall be accompanied by a report itemizing the exact quantities of wine sold for the preceding calendar month by the size of the container.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.14))
State Law reference— Local excise tax, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60 et seq.
Sec. 6-37. - Excise tax—Distilled spirits.
(a)
Rate of levy. There is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate of $.22 per liter on all distilled spirits sold, displayed or stored in the city.
(b)
Against whom levied. The distilled spirits excise tax shall be paid by each licensed wholesale dealer in distilled spirits in the city.
(c)
Due date and required report. The distilled spirits excise tax shall be paid on or before the tenth day of the month following the calendar month in which the beverages are sold or disposed of, and payment shall be accompanied by a report itemizing the exact quantities of distilled spirits sold. The tax imposed by this section shall be prorated down on one-half pints, pints, fifths, quarts, half-gallons, gallons and other authorized sizes so that each bottle or each individual size container shall be taxed on the basis set forth in this section.
(Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 3, 12-6-2021)
Secs. 6-38—6-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES

Sec. 6-61. - Application fee.
There shall be a nonrefundable fee of $75.00 which must be submitted simultaneously with an application for any license covered under this chapter. No such application shall be processed and considered by the city council until such fee has been paid.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.20))
Sec. 6-62. - Licensee qualifications.
(a)
All applicants shall be investigated by the city police or by such other person or entity as may be designated by the city council. The report of such investigation shall be presented to the city council for consideration with the application.
(b)
No alcoholic beverage license required by this chapter shall be issued to the following persons or for the following locations:
(1)
To any person who is not a resident of the city, unless such person designates a resident of the city who shall be responsible for any matter relating to the license.
(2)
To a person who, in the opinion and judgment of the city council, is not of good moral character and reputation in the community in which such person resides.
(3)
To a person found by the city council to have been guilty of the violation of any federal, state, or local law or regulation respecting the manufacture, possession, or sale of any alcoholic beverage within the last five years, or who has forfeited a bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation within the last five years.
(4)
To any person who is the previous holder of an alcoholic beverage license and is, in the judgment and discretion of the city council, an unfit person to have a license because of the manner in which such person conducted business thereunder as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection, in order to prevent the violation of any laws or regulations relating to such business.
(5)
For a location not suitable in the judgment and discretion of the city council because of traffic congestion, the general character of the neighborhood, or by reason of the effect which such establishment would have on the adjacent and surrounding properties.
(6)
For a location within an area where, in the judgment of the governing body, the number of alcoholic beverage licenses already granted makes it contrary to the public interest and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(7)
For a location at which a previous alcoholic beverage license has been denied, revoked, or suspended, and where, in the judgment of the city council, the problems which have arisen from the operation of an alcoholic beverage license at such location indicate that it is not in the best interest of public health, safety, welfare, or morals that the sale of alcoholic beverages be permitted at such location.
(8)
To any person who has made any false statement on an application for a license under this chapter or any previous application for a license under this chapter.
(9)
To any person who has been convicted of a felony or a violation of the laws or regulations of any state or political subdivision relating to the use or sale of drugs or alcoholic beverages, or who has been convicted of a misdemeanor involving the use of firearms, theft, violence, or a crime of moral turpitude. The forfeiture of bond or collateral, a plea of nolo contendere, or a plea of guilty shall be considered a conviction for the purpose of this section.
(10)
To a person who is related within the first degree of consanguinity and affinity, as computed according to the Cannon law, to any person who has been previously denied a license or had a license revoked or suspended, if such previous applicant or holder of a license has any ownership interest in the applicant's business.
(11)
To a person who has had a license revoked within the last five years.
(12)
For a location for the sale of malt beverages and wine within 100 yards of any school building, educational building, school grounds or college campus.
(13)
For a location which does not have adequate off-street facilities or other parking available for its patrons.
(14)
To any corporation, unless all directors, officers and stock holders are residents of the city and unless such corporation designates a resident of the city who shall be responsible for any matter relating to the license.
(15)
To any employee or elected official of the city, including the mayor and city council.
(16)
To anyone making a statement on an application for a license that is found to be false.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.21))
Sec. 6-63. - Malt beverages—License required.
Each brewer, wholesale dealer, and retail dealer of malt beverages, as such terms are defined in O.C.G.A. §§ 3-1-2 and 3-5-1, who does business within the city shall be required to obtain an annual license from the city clerk. Each brewer, wholesale dealer, and retail dealer shall make application in the manner prescribed by the city clerk prior to January 1 of each year. Each application shall be considered by the city council no later than the first regularly scheduled meeting in January. No new applicant for an alcohol license may engage in the sale of alcohol without approval by the city council. Applicants for renewal may continue the sale of alcoholic beverages until the license application is denied by the council.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.22))
Sec. 6-64. - Same—Fees.
The annual license fee for malt beverage brewers, retail dealers, and wholesale dealers shall be $400.00.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.23))
Sec. 6-65. - Wine—License required.
Each retail or wholesale dealer of wine, as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. §§ 3-1-2 and 3-5-1, who does business within the city shall be required to obtain an annual license from the city clerk. Each such dealer shall make application in the manner prescribed by the city clerk prior to January 1 of each year. Each application shall be considered by the city council no later than the first regularly scheduled meeting in January. No new applicant for an alcohol license may engage in the sale of alcohol without approval by the city council. Applicants for renewal may continue the sale of alcoholic beverages until the license application is denied by the council.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.24))
Sec. 6-66. - Same—Fees.
The annual license fee for each place of retail wine distribution in the city shall be $400.00. The annual license fee for each wholesale dealer of wine shall be $400.00.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.25))
Sec. 6-67. - Distilled spirits—License required.
Each retail or wholesale dealer of distilled spirits, as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 who does business within the city shall be required to obtain an annual license from the city clerk. Each such licensee shall make application in the manner prescribed by the city clerk prior to January 1 of each year. Each application shall be considered by the city council no later than the first regularly scheduled meeting in January. No applicant for an alcohol license may engage in the sale of alcohol without approval by the city council. Applicants for renewal may continue the sale of alcohol beverages until the license application is denied by the council.
(Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 4, 12-6-2021)
Sec. 6-68. - Same—Fees.
The annual license fee for retail and wholesale distributors of distilled spirits shall be $___________.
(Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 5, 12-6-2021)
Sec. 6-69. - On-premises consumption.
(a)
On-premises consumption of malt beverages and wines is permitted, subject to the payment of the license fees only on the premises of an establishment which, during the 12 months immediately preceding the granting of each annual license, or such portion thereof as it shall have been in operation, realized 50 percent or more of its gross income from the sale of food.
(b)
License fees for on-premises consumption of malt beverages shall be $400.00 for each premises. License fees for on-premises consumption of wines shall be $400.00 for each premises. The foregoing license fees for the consumption on the premises shall be in addition to all other fees imposed by this article.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.26))
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2021-07 , § 6, adopted Dec. 6, 2021, renumbered §§ 6-67—6-71 as 6-69—6-73.
Sec. 6-70. - Change of location and/or licensee.
A license issued under the provisions of this section shall permit the sale or manufacture of alcoholic beverages only on the premises described in the application under the supervision of the named licensee. Any license transfer to a location other than the premises described in the original application. There shall be an application fee of $50.00 for the transfer to a new location. No license under this article shall be transferable to any person. It shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender his license to the city council when he ceases to operate the business.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.27))
Editor's note— See editor's note for § 6-69.
Sec. 6-71. - Suspension and revocation—Grounds for suspension or revocation.
(a)
The city council may suspend or revoke any alcohol license. Should the council revoke a license, such license may not be reinstated for five years. Provided further, a license shall not be granted to any person who is related in the first degree of consanguinity and affinity as is computed according to common law or to any person who has had an ownership interest or management with responsibility of the applicant's business. Should the council suspend any license, the license shall be suspended for a specific period of time and shall be reinstated at the end of the suspension period upon payment of a $150.00 reinstatement fee, without further action by the city council; provided, however, should an alcohol license be suspended beyond the end of the calendar year, the city council shall approve or deny the license at the conclusion of the suspension period. Upon such approval, the applicant shall pay a $150.00 reinstatement fee and the annual license fees prescribed herein.
(b)
The following shall be grounds for the suspension or revocation of an alcoholic beverage license; whether or not such grounds exist shall be determined by the city council in its sole discretion:
(1)
The violation by the license holder of any federal, state, or local law or ordinance relating to the use and sale of drugs or alcoholic beverages or involving the use of firearms, theft, violence, or a crime of moral turpitude.
(2)
The failure of the license holder to report promptly to the sheriff's department any violation of law or municipal ordinance, breach of the peace, disturbance, or altercation occurring inside the premises.
(3)
Any conduct on the part of the license holder or license holder's employee on- or off-premises contrary to the public health, safety, or morals of the citizens of the city.
(4)
Operating or conducting the business on the licensed premises in a manner contrary to the public welfare, safety, health, or morals of the citizens of the city or in such manner as to constitute a nuisance.
(5)
Upon the business or the operation or location thereof, or the owner or any person connected therewith, ceasing to meet any of the qualifications for the issuance of a license as stated under section 6-62.
(6)
The failure of the license holder or license holder's employees to keep the licensed premises free and clear of any disturbances of the peace; loud or boisterous conduct; lewd, obscene, or immoral entertainment; or violation of any federal, state, or local law or ordinance relating to the use and sale of drugs or alcoholic beverages or involving the use of firearms, theft, violence, or a crime of moral turpitude.
(c)
The determination of whether the license holder or license holder's employee has violated this section shall be made by the city council. An actual conviction in a court for any offense shall not be necessary in order to suspend or revoke the license.
(d)
The police chief shall report any violation of this article or any state or federal law by any license holder or any disturbance or violation of law of any kind at any location that alcoholic beverages are sold to the city clerk. The report shall be placed on the agenda at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the city council.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.28))
Editor's note— See editor's note for § 6-69.
Sec. 6-72. - Same—Procedure; appeal.
(a)
After the city council shall deny any application for a license or the transfer of any license or shall suspend or revoke any existing license, the applicant or license holder, as the case may be, shall be given notice in writing with the reasons therefor stated.
(b)
Any applicant or license holder aggrieved by the decision of the city council shall have the right to request, within ten days after receipt of notice, a hearing on such decision. Upon receipt by the city council of a request for such hearing, a hearing shall be scheduled within 20 working days; and the applicant or license holder, as the case may be, shall be notified of the date, time, and place of such hearing. At such hearing, the licensee or applicant shall have the right to appear in person and by attorney, to have witnesses appear on his behalf, and to cross-examine opposing witnesses. The witnesses shall testify under oath, and the technical rules of evidence shall not apply.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.29))
Editor's note— See editor's note for § 6-69.
Sec. 6-73. - Permits for alcoholic beverage handlers.
(a)
All persons who are employed at an establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages hereunder shall be required to have a permit to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages.
(b)
Current employees shall have until August 1 to obtain a permit, while employees hired after the date of this section shall obtain a permit within 15 days from the date of initial employment.
(c)
Application for such permit shall be made to the city clerk, at which time an application fee of $20.00 shall be paid. The application shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name, address, date of birth, height, weight, color of hair, and color of eyes of the applicant and the name of the establishment at which the applicant will be employed.
(2)
A statement that the applicant has not been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude within the last ten years.
(d)
The applicant shall be fingerprinted, and a record search for any criminal record shall be conducted by the police department. The application shall be denied if:
(1)
The applicant has entered a plea of guilty to, a plea of nolo contendere to, or was convicted of any felony crime, any crime involving moral turpitude, or any crime involving the illegal sale or transfer of alcoholic beverages to a minor within the previous ten years; or
(2)
The applicant served any part of a sentence, including, but not limited to, incarceration or probation, within the previous ten years, which sentence was related to a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere, or a conviction of any felony crime, any crime involving moral turpitude, or any crime involving the illegal sale or transfer of alcoholic beverages to a minor.
(e)
If the application is granted, an identification card shall be issued to the applicant, who shall carry the same on his person at all times while on the job.
(f)
The permit shall expire after four years, at which time applicant may apply to have the same renewed.
(g)
If an application is denied or a permit suspended or revoked, an appeal may be made to the city council at its next regular meeting.
(h)
Whenever a permit holder becomes employed by an establishment other than the one named on the identification card, he shall obtain a new card showing the name of the current establishment at which he is employed within 15 days of such change of employment.
(i)
Any permit holder who shall sell alcoholic beverages to a person who is not of legal age to purchase the same, sell to an intoxicated person, or sell alcoholic beverages on Sunday or at other times or when same cannot be legally sold, shall have his permit suspended for a period of two weeks and until a reinstatement fee of $50.00 is paid; provided, however, that no permit shall be suspended or revoked for selling to a person not of lawful age to purchase alcohol when such sale was induced by the furnishing of false identification by the purchaser. For a second offense within 12 months, said permit shall be suspended for a period of 30 days and until a reinstatement fee of $100.00 is paid. Furthermore, any permit holder who commits a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude shall have his license permanently revoked.
(Ord. of 6-15-2015, exh. A(10.30))
Editor's note— See editor's note for § 6-69.
