Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - REFUNDING BONDS[1]
A Resolution to propose to the qualified voters of Georgia an amendment to Article 7, Section 7, Paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Georgia, so as to authorize the City of Doerun, in Colquitt County, Georgia, to refund its present or any future bonded indebtedness legally incurred that may be or become unpaid, provided that the funds raised from the refunding bonds shall be used exclusively for the retirement of the said existing bonded indebtedness, and to authorize the governing authorities of the City of Doerun, without a vote of the people, to authorize the issuance of said refunding bonds, and to provide for the submission of this amendment for ratification by the voters of Georgia and for other purposes.

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 26), page 73, which amendment to Ga. Const. (1877), art. VII, § 7, ¶ I was carried forward by 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 103) page 3717. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original charter. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines have been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Constitution amended.]
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same that, Article 7, Section 7, Paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Georgia, which has heretofore been amended, shall be further amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph in the following words, to wit:
"And except that the City of Doerun, in Colquitt County, Georgia, for its present or any future bonded indebtedness that is not paid at maturity may issue serial refunding bonds not in excess of the unpaid outstanding bonded indebtedness, including principal and interest, for the purpose of refunding and retiring said bonded indebtedness of said City of Doerun and may provide for the assessment and collection of an annual tax sufficient in amount to pay the principal and interest of said refunding bonds as they shall fall due, the proceeds of such refunding bonds as may be issued as herein provided to be used exclusively for the purpose of paying and retiring said bonded indebtedness that is due or that may become due and unpaid, and said refunding bonds may be issued when authorized by a vote of the governing body of the City of Doerun, now the City Council, and they shall be validated as is provided by law."
Sec. 2. - [Referendum.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that when said amendment shall be agreed to by two-thirds vote of the members of each House, with the "ayes" and "nays" thereon, the Governor is hereby directed to have this proposal published in one or more newspapers in each Congressional District in this State for two months previous to the time for holding the next general election, at which proposed amendments to the Constitution of this State may be voted on, and shall at said general election be submitted to the people for ratification. All persons voting at said election in favor of adopting the said proposed amendment to the Constitution shall have written or printed on their ballots the words, "For ratification of amendment of Article 7, Section 7, Paragraph 1, of the Constitution, authorizing the City of Doerun to issue refunding bonds," and all persons opposed to the adopting of said amendment shall have written or printed on their ballots the words, "Against ratification of amendment of Article 7, Section 7, Paragraph 1, of the Constitution, authorizing the City of Doerun to issue refunding bonds." And if a majority of the electors qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly, voting thereon, shall vote for ratification thereof as provided by law, the result shall be consolidated as now required by law in elections for members of the General Assembly, and the said amendment shall become a part of Article 7, Section 7, Paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the State, and the Governor shall make a proclamation therefor as provided by law.
Sec. 3. - [Repealer.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that all laws or parts of laws in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed.
Approval Date: Approved March 26, 1941.
