ARTICLE VI. - NATURAL GAS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 90-319—90-339. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING AND COLLECTION

Sec. 90-340. - Meters—Required; installation and maintenance; cut off of service.
(a)
All buildings, structures or premises supplied with gas by the city gas system shall be controlled by a meter.
(b)
The meter shall be of the design, type and size to be approved by the natural gas services director of the city and shall be provided and installed by the city gas department at a charge adequate to cover the purchase and installation costs of said meter. After installation, such meter shall be under the control of the gas department of the city; and if such meter becomes damaged by negligence of the property owner or tenant, the expense of any replacement or repair to such meter by the city gas department shall be borne by the property owner; otherwise, the city gas department will replace any such meter at the city's expense when, in the judgment of the city gas department, such meter is defective or in need of replacement.
(c)
If any person shall refuse to comply with the provisions of this section, the supply of gas to such service shall be cut off.
(Code 1986, § 13-100)
Sec. 90-341. - Same—Separate connections.
Each house, store, building, place of business, or residential premises which desires to have gas service shall have a separate meter and be separately connected to said meter, except as hereinafter provided.
(Code 1986, § 13-101)
Sec. 90-342. - Same—Tampering with meter or lock.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any gas meter in the city so as to cause said meter to misregister or fail to register the volume of gas furnished to the owner or user of gas through said meter.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any gas meter lock in the city so as to cause the service to be cut back on when the city has terminated the service for a reason.
(Code 1986, § 13-102)
State Law reference— Theft of service, O.C.G.A. § 16-8-5.
Sec. 90-343. - Service deposit—Nonsingle-family, commercial and industrial customers; nonprofit organizations.
(a)
All categories of consumers of gas in the city other than single-family residences shall be required to pay a minimum amount established by ordinance as a service deposit before gas service is made available, and in the case of all existing commercial, industrial and other residential gas customers an average will be taken of the previous customer's six months of gas usage and the deposit required will be one month's bill to be computed and rounded off to the nearest dollar amount; and provided further, however, in the case of a previous consumption history not being available for a new commercial, industrial or nonsingle-family residential gas customer, a monthly figure will be estimated, based on a similar type commercial, industrial or nonsingle-family gas customer, and a followup computation will be calculated after six months of gas usage to ascertain the accuracy of such estimated deposit amount charged, and an adjustment either up or down will be made at that time, based on the average six months of gas usage.
(b)
Nonprofit organizations shall be required to pay a service deposit calculated in the same manner as set out in subsection (a) of this section; provided, however, that the finance director shall be authorized to waive such service deposit for nonprofit organizations where the nonprofit organization has established its credit worthiness from such documentation or other information presented to the finance director.
(Code 1986, § 13-103; Ord. No. O-87-12-27, 12-21-1987; Ord. No. O-95-03-10, 3-23-1995; Ord. No. O-04-12-33, 12-16-2004)
Sec. 90-344. - Same—Exceptions, refunds.
(a)
An advance service deposit in the amount established by ordinance is required before gas service is made available to the consumers of gas in the city, except those who have presented a letter from another utility company establishing their credit worthiness or have had a utility account in good standing with the city. For these customers, the advance service deposit may be waived by the finance director.
(b)
The service deposit required of residential customers under subsection (a) of this section shall be refunded after the customer has maintained service at the same address for a minimum of 24 months with no delinquencies. The city utility billing department shall accomplish the refunding at least annually by applying the customer's deposit to his bill and notifying the customer when it has been done.
(Code 1986, § 13-104; Ord. No. O-87-12-27, 12-21-1987; Ord. No. O-04-12-33, 12-16-2004)
Sec. 90-345. - Senior citizens' discount on residential gas bill.
Qualifying senior citizens. There shall be a ten percent discount applied to the residential rates for natural gas services for qualifying senior citizens. A qualifying senior citizen is one who meets all of the following qualifications:
(1)
The qualifying senior citizen shall be 62 years of age or older.
(2)
The qualifying senior citizen shall complete and sign an application attesting to all required information. Such application may be combined with an application for such discount with respect to city water and sewer bills.
(3)
The qualifying senior citizen shall have the natural gas account in the name of the qualifying senior citizen.
(4)
The residence for which such discount is sought shall be the primary residence of the qualifying senior citizen.
(5)
The qualifying senior citizen shall be current in the payment on all of his or her city water, sewer, and natural gas bills at the time the application is submitted; otherwise, the application shall be denied.
(Code 1986, § 13-105; Ord. No. O-93-02-08, 3-26-1993; Ord. No. O-01-01-05, 1-18-2001; Ord. No. O-2020-4, 1-23-2020)
Sec. 90-346. - Purchase gas adjustment.
(a)
The customer rates for all classifications of firm natural gas customers are based upon the city's paying a commodity charge to the natural gas supplier. Under applicable federal statutes and regulations; namely the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's Regulation section 154.38(d)(4), regulations under the Natural Gas Act and section 282.601 of the regulations under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, the commodity charges imposed upon the city by the supplier have been rapidly increasing and otherwise fluctuating. Such rapid product cost fluctuations make it practically impossible for the city to establish firm natural gas customer rates at realistic levels to ensure normal revenues that will cover the purchase cost of gas, distribution and transportation costs, natural gas department operating expenses, and an established margin.
(b)
To provide for fluctuations in the city's cost of natural gas purchased and other costs to the city that may be incurred in the delivery of natural gas to the city gate, the rates for firm natural gas imposed upon the various classifications of natural gas customers shall be subject to a purchase gas adjustment (hereinafter called "PGA") that will be calculated in accordance with subsection (d) of this section.
(c)
The PGA shall not be reflected separately on the utility customer's monthly billing.
(d)
The PGA shall be supplied on a monthly basis by the Municipal Gas Authority of Georgia (MGAG) to the city. The natural gas variable rates for all classifications of firm delivery customers shall be calculated monthly and shall be equal to the cost of gas plus the PGA plus the operating expenses and the appropriate rate of return on the city's investments in the natural gas system as determined by the city council from time to time. The Municipal Gas Authority of Georgia will provide the cost of natural gas each month prior to the city's billing cycle. In establishing the PGA, all fractions of cents shall be rounded up to the nearest whole cent.
(e)
The city shall have available in the office of the finance director the applicable PGA and corresponding rates for the current calendar month and for the previous 24 calendar months so that interested parties may determine fluctuations in the city's natural gas rates to all classifications of firm load customers.
(f)
Anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the city shall not consider any price fluctuations in its cost for propane in determining the purchase gas adjustment under this section unless the price fluctuations negatively impact the city's overall gross margin.
(Code 1986, § 13-106; Ord. No. O-97-01-01, 1-23-1997; Ord. No. O-04-12-33, 12-16-2004)
Sec. 90-347. - Discontinuance of service for failure to pay natural gas bill; reconnection charges.
All natural gas charges must be promptly paid or natural gas service will be discontinued and a reconnection fee in an amount established by ordinance shall be charged for turning the natural gas service on again. In addition, the current advance natural gas service payment required shall be paid in full to the city before the city shall turn the natural gas service on again in the event of a disconnection.
(Ord. No. O-09-03-07, 3-19-2009)
Sec. 90-348. - Reconnection of natural gas services after business hours.
In addition to the provisions of section 90-170 of this article, any person whose natural gas service has been turned off for nonpayment, or for other violation or violations of the City Code, and who requests reconnection services which must be performed after normal business hours, which are Monday—Friday 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., shall be required to sign an "after hours service agreement" with the city before the reconnection services will be performed by the city. Such agreement shall provide that the customer requesting reconnection services must pay the service agreement fee, reconnection fees, and any past due amounts by 10:00 a.m., on the next business day. In the event that the customer does not pay such amounts within such time frame in violation of the agreement, the city shall be authorized to disconnect the natural gas for such customer again, and the charges incurred for the reconnection shall be added to the customer's natural gas service account. In the event that the customer fails to pay the amounts due under the after hours service agreement prior to the deadline for payment thereof, service shall not be reinstated for the customer all amounts owed by the customer to the city in connection with the customer's natural gas service are paid in full. In the event that the original disconnection is deemed to be an error on the part of the city, the service agreement fee and the reconnection fees will be waived. The amount of the service agreement fee and reconnection fees shall be established by ordinance.
(Ord. No. O-09-03-07, 3-19-2009)
Secs. 90-349—90-364. - Reserved.
