ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 90-1. - Discontinuance of city services when charges for services from the city's combined public utility system are unpaid or past due.
(a)
The city's water, sewerage, natural gas, and stormwater utilities (hereinafter "utility services") are hereby combined into a single utility system to serve the city and the geographic area outside of the city where the city provides such utility services. The system shall be operated and maintained as a combined public utility system with various departments of the city being responsible for the day-to-day operations of the utilities as set out in this Code.
(b)
In the absence of a written agreement with the city creating a property interest or a legitimate expectation of continued services, all utility services may be terminated due to violation of published rules, regulations, and procedures governing service delivery and billing practices of the combined utility system. If amounts owed by utility services customers for either water, sewerage, natural gas, or stormwater management are not timely paid, all such services shall be subject to disconnection in accord with city utility disconnection policies. Payment of amounts owed for each separate utility is a condition of service as to the remaining utilities. Failure by a customer to receive a bill for the current period shall not constitute a defense for non-payment when such services are shown to have been accepted at the service address.
(Ord. No. O-2019-3, 7-18-2019)
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-2019-3, adopted July 18, 2019, repealed the former § 90-1, and enacted a new 90-1 as set out herein. The former 90-1 pertained to discontinuance of city services when charges remain unpaid and derived from the Code of 1962, § 10-22; the Code of 1986, § 13-1; and Ord. No. O-04-12-33, adopted Dec. 16, 2004.
Sec. 90-2. - Refunds of utility payments.
(a)
In the event that a city utility customer claims that he has overpaid a utility bill or that he has been charged more than was legally due for the use of city utilities, then such customer may file a claim for a refund with the finance director at any time within three years after the date of the payment of the amount for which a refund is claimed. The claim for refund shall be in writing, and shall be in a form and contain the information required by the finance director. Such claim shall include a summary statement of the grounds upon which the customer relies in claiming the refund. The customer may be required to provide such additional information as may be requested by the finance director in order for the clerk to consider the claim.
(b)
Upon receipt of the claim, and any additional information required from the customer by the finance director, the finance director shall consider the claim and determine whether or not the customer is entitled to a refund, but in no event shall any refund be provided for any payments made more than three years prior to the date of filing the claim for refund. The finance director shall only grant the claim for refund if the finance director determines that the amount for which the refund is sought was billed to the customer erroneously or illegally.
(c)
The finance director shall notify the customer of the finance director's decision regarding the refund claim within 30 days from the date that the finance director receives all information necessary in order for the finance director to make a determination regarding the refund claim.
(d)
Any customer whose claim for refund is denied by the finance director may appeal such denial to the city council within 30 days of the date of the finance director's decision. The city council shall authorize such refund only in the event that it finds that the funds for which the refund is sought were billed to the customer either erroneously or illegally. The decision of the city council regarding the claim for refund shall be final.
(Code 1986, § 13-2; Ord. No. O-97-11-36, 11-20-1997; Ord. No. O-04-12-33, 12-16-2004)
Secs. 90-3—90-22. - Reserved.
