Chapter 50 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Courts, ch. 26; law enforcement, ch. 38.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND MORALS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 50-31—50-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SMOKING IN COUNTY BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 30.

Sec. 50-51. - Purpose.
This division is enacted for and is designed for the following purposes, among others to:
(1)
Protect the public health and welfare of the general public by prohibiting smoking in all public buildings and facilities of the county;
(2)
Establish the priority that the general public is entitled to breathe air free of smoke; and
(3)
Prevent litter which normally results from smoking in public buildings and facilities.
(Ord. No. 36, § 1, 4-2-1996)
Sec. 50-52. - Definitions.
The following, words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Public buildings and public facilities means and includes all those buildings and facilities owned and/or occupied by the county and its employees. Open land areas outside public buildings and public facilities are not included in this definition.
Smoke or smoking means the act of burning a tobacco product of any kind in a cigarette, cigar or pipe.
(Ord. No. 36, § 2, 4-2-1996)
Sec. 50-53. - Signs.
"No Smoking" signs shall be placed clearly and conspicuously at all entrances to public buildings and facilities and in such other places and areas as deemed necessary to give notice to the general public of the no smoking policy put into effect by this division.
(Ord. No. 36, § 3, 4-2-1996)
Sec. 50-54. - Enforcement.
(a)
Enforcement of the provisions of this division shall be by the county sheriff, his lawful deputies and any and all other law enforcement officers who have arrest powers under the general laws of this state, and also the code enforcement officer in the employment of the county.
(b)
Prosecutions for the violations of this division shall be by citation or accusation and made returnable to the court having jurisdiction of ordinance violations.
(c)
Jurisdiction for violations of this division shall be the magistrate court of the county.
(d)
Any person violating any provision of this division, and being found guilty thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $500.00, or 60 days imprisonment, or both.
(e)
O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq. shall govern in all matters under this division.
(Ord. No. 36, § 4, 4-2-1996)
Secs. 50-55—50-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS

Sec. 50-81. - Definition; violation.
(a)
Any person who shall be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud, or unbecoming language, is guilty of the offense of "public drunkenness."
(b)
Public drunkenness as defined in subsection (a) of this section shall constitute a violation of this division.
(Ord. No. 49, §§ 1, 2, 6-12-2003)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-82. - Violation; penalty.
(a)
A violation of this division occurring in any part of the unincorporated area of the county shall be enforced by any law enforcement officer authorized by law to arrest for such conduct as permitted and provided by applicable sections of the Official Code of Georgia, Annotated.
(b)
Prosecution for violations of this division, trials for violations of this division, and punishment for violations of this division shall be as provided by O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60—15-10-66.
(c)
A violation of this division shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be tried in the magistrate's court of the county and, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not in excess of 60 days, as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 49, §§ 3—5, 6-12-2003)
Secs. 50-83—50-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - DISORDERLY CONDUCT

Sec. 50-101. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Artifice means an artful device or strategy, or trickery.
Assemble means to bring or gather into a group.
Befoul means to soil or make dirty.
Brawl means a noisy argument or fight.
Congregate means to bring or come together in a crowd.
Damage means impair or injure the usefulness or value of person or property.
Device means a plan or scheme.
Endanger means to expose to danger or harm.
Epithets means a derogatory or abusive word or phrase used as a descriptive substitute for the name or title of a person or thing.
Fighting words means words used in an argument or quarrel which are assertive or combative.
Fraudulent scheme means a deliberate plan, deception, or trick practiced so as to secure an unfair or unlawful gain over someone.
Gaming means gambling or betting money on the outcome of a game or contest, or to play a game of chance for stakes.
Hazardous means dangerous.
Lawful occupation means any regular employment which is allowed, established, sanctioned or recognized by the law.
Lawful pursuits means any activity regularly engaged in which is allowed, established, sanctioned or recognized by the law.
Obscene means offensive to the accepted standards of decency, or offensive, or repulsive to the senses.
Physically offensive means disagreeble to the senses.
Provoke means to cause someone or something to take action.
Public property means any property which is maintained for or used by the people or community.
Riotous conduct means unrestrained, disorderly, or uncontrolled behavior which causes a disturbance of the public peace.
Trick means an indirect, often deceptive or fraudulent means of achieving an end.
Tumultuous means confusedly or violently agitated so as to cause commotion, noise or a great disturbance.
Turmoil means utter confusion or agitation.
Unlawful activities means any activity engaged in which is not allowed, established, sanctioned or recognized by the law.
Utters means to express by means of speech.
Violent means characterized or cause by great physical force or rough action.
(Ord. No. 50, § 2, 6-12-2003)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-102. - Violation; prohibited acts of disorderly conduct.
(a)
Disorderly conduct as listed in subsection (b) of this section shall constitute a violation of this division.
(b)
Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following in the unincorporated area of the county shall be guilty of disorderly conduct:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear of the safety of such person's life, limb, or health.
(2)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person, whereby public property or the property of any other person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(3)
Endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence or threats of bodily harm.
(4)
Cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl, or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or public property.
(5)
Assemble or congregate with another or others and cause, provoke or engage in any fight or brawl.
(6)
Collect in bodies or in crowds and engage in unlawful activities.
(7)
Assemble or congregate with another or others and engage or attempt to engage in gaming.
(8)
Frequent any public place and obtain money from another by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, tricks, artifice or device, or attempt to do so.
(9)
Assembles with another or others and engages in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person, or attempts to do so.
(10)
Utters, in a public place or any place open to the public, any obscene words or epithets.
(11)
Frequents any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed or tolerated.
(12)
Uses fighting words directed towards any person who becomes outraged, and thus creates turmoil.
(13)
Assemble or congregate with another or others and do bodily harm to another.
(14)
By acts of violence, interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(15)
Congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having authority.
(16)
Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically offensive condition.
(17)
Assembles or congregates with others in a group or a crowd of more than five people in the parking lot or on the premises of a business establishment which is open and available to the public, not for the purpose of transacting business at the establishment, but for the purpose of socializing, hanging out, or consuming products purchased inside the business establishment, so as to interfere with or hinder the operation of the business activities conducted on the property or in the establishment served by such parking lot or premises by taking up parking spaces which are intended to be available for customers of the business, hampering access to the business establishment or by the existence of a group or crowd in the parking lot or on such premises discouraging potential customers from entering the premises of the business establishment; provided that the owner, manager or operator of the business establishment has complained about the situation to the sheriff's department and the sheriff or his deputy has advised the people in the group or crowd of the complaint of the business establishment, requested all those in the group or crowd to disperse and move out of the parking lot or on such premises and, after being given the opportunity to comply with the request, the person fails to remove himself from the parking lot or from such premises, or, in the alternative, the owner, manager or operator of the business establishment has posted and maintains, at points clearly visible from the place or places where the people are assembled or congregated, a sign containing the following information in easy-to-read printing.
a.
Notice of this subsection (b)(17).
b.
Identification of the property reserved for customer use only.
c.
Identification of the owner, manager or operator of the business establishment.
d.
Warning that violators will be prosecuted.
For purposes of determining whether a group or crowd of more than five people have assembled or congregated in a parking lot or on the premises, separate groups of less than five people engaging in the activity described above may be aggregated to determine the total number of people in the parking lot or on the premises participating in such activity.
(18)
Assembles or congregates with others in a group or a crowd of more than five people in the parking lot or on the premises of a business establishment which at the time is closed to the public, for the purpose of socializing, hanging out or other similar activities against the wishes of the owner, manager or operator of such business establishment; provided that the owner, manager or operator of the business establishment or their representative has complained about the situation to the sheriff's department and the sheriff or his deputy has advised the people in the group or crowd of the complaint of the business establishment, requested all those in the group or crowd to disperse and move out of the parking lot and, after being given the opportunity to comply with the request, the person fails to remove himself from the parking lot or, in the alternative, the owner, manager or operator of the business establishment or other representatives has posted and maintains, at points clearly visible from the place or places where the people are assembled or congregated, a sign containing the following information in easy-to-read printing:
a.
Notice of this subsection (b)(18).
b.
Identification of the property reserved for customer use only.
c.
Identification of the owner, manager or operator of the business establishment.
d.
Warning that violators will be prosecuted.
For purposes of determining whether a group or crowd of more than five people have assembled or congregated in a parking lot or on the premises, separate groups of less than five people engaging in the activity described above may be aggregated to determine the total number of people in the parking lot or on the premises participating in such activity.
(19)
Without provocation, uses obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace.
(Ord. No. 50, §§ 1, 3, 6-12-2003)
Sec. 50-103. - Violation; penalty.
(a)
A violation of this division occurring in any part of the unincorporated area of the county shall be enforced by any law enforcement officer authorized by law to arrest for such conduct as permitted and provided by applicable sections of the Official Code of Georgia, Annotated.
(b)
Prosecution for violations of this division, trials for violation of this division, and punishment for violations of this division shall be as provided by O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60—15-10-66.
(c)
A violation of this division shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be tried in the magistrate's court of the county and, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not in excess of 60 days, as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 50, §§ 4—6, 6-12-2003)
Secs. 50-104—50-109. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - MARIJUANA

Sec. 50-110. - Definition; violation.
(a)
It should be unlawful for any person to possess, or have under his control marijuana, except for bona fide medical or scientific purposes, or for the bona fide purpose of applying marijuana for such medical or scientific purposes.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to common carriers or to warehousemen, while engaged in lawfully transacting their businesses as such, or to any employee of the same acting within the scope of his employment; or to public officers or their employees in the performance of their official duties requiring possession or control of marijuana; or to temporary incidental possession by employees or agents of persons lawfully entitled to possession, or by persons whose possession is for the purpose of aiding public officers in the performing their official duties.
(c)
The following words or phrases, as used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1)
Marijuana includes the following substances, by whatever names they may be designated:
a.
The dried, flowering or fruiting tops of the pistillate plant Cannabis Sativa L., from which the resin has not been extracted.
b.
The resin extracted from such tops, and
c.
Every compound, manufacture, salt derivate, mixture of preparation of such resin, or such tops from which the resin has not been extracted.
(2)
Medical purposes include only such uses as may be prescribed or authorized in the course of his professional practice by a person authorized by law to practice medicine, dentistry, or veterinary medicine, or any other person authorized by law to treat sick or injured human beings or animals.
(3)
Person includes any corporation, association, co-partnership or one or more individuals.
(4)
Scientific purposes include any use for research, instruction or analysis.
(Ord. of 2-11-2016)
Sec. 50-111. - Penalty.
A violation of this division shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be tried in the probate court of the county and, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed in excess of one year, as provided by law.
(Ord. of 2-11-2016)
