Chapter 54 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 30; natural resources, ch. 46; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62; waterways, ch. 74.
State Constitution reference— County parks and recreational areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
State Law reference— County recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 54-1—54-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RECREATION BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Other boards and commissions, § 2-141 et seq.

Sec. 54-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Recreation board means the Lincoln County Recreation Board.
(Ord. No. 8, § 1, 2-4-1986)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 54-32. - Created.
There is hereby created and established a recreation board for the county which shall be known as the "Lincoln County Recreation Board."
(Ord. No. 8, § 1, 2-4-1986)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 54-33. - Membership.
The recreation board created in this article shall consist of five members, one named by each of the five members of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 8, § 2, 2-4-1986)
Sec. 54-34. - Eligibility; terms of office; vacancy and removal.
(a)
To be eligible for appointment to the recreation board, a member must be a resident of the county and reside within the boundaries of the district the member shall represent.
(b)
The members appointed under this article shall serve for four-year staggered terms beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31, four years later.
(c)
Vacancies in memberships of the recreation board shall be filled in the same manner as provided for the appointment of members. Any person appointed as the result of a vacancy on the board shall serve the unexpired term left by the vacant member.
(d)
Any members may be removed for cause by majority vote of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 8, § 3, 2-4-1986; Ord. of 2-8-2018)
Sec. 54-35. - Oath of office.
No member under this article shall begin to discharge his duties as a member of the recreation board without first having taken the oath of office.
(Ord. No. 8, § 4, 2-4-1986)
Sec. 54-36. - Organization.
Immediately after appointment, the membership of the recreation board shall meet and organize by electing a chair, vice-chair and secretary. The recreation board may prepare and adopt bylaws, rules and regulations regarding the conduct of its affairs.
(Ord. No. 8, § 5, 2-4-1986)
Sec. 54-37. - Meetings.
(a)
The recreation board shall hold not less than eight regular meetings each calendar year. The meetings shall be held on the fourth Tuesday of the months of March through October.
(b)
Reserved.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the recreation board holding special meetings on the call of the chair of the recreation board; however no travel allotment shall be paid to a member except for those meetings attended as provided for in subsection (a) of this section.
(d)
The membership of any member of the recreation board missing more than three meetings of the board during any calendar year shall be automatically terminated under this section.
(Ord. No. 8, § 6, 2-4-1986; Amend. of 2-12-2009)
Sec. 54-38. - Reports.
The recreation board shall submit a written report to the board of commissioners of its transactions, findings, proceedings and recommendations at least once per year.
(Ord. No. 8, § 7, 2-4-1986)
Sec. 54-39. - Duties.
The recreation board has as its primary responsibility the coordination, organization and scheduling of recreational and cultural programs to meet the needs and desires of the citizens of the county. The board shall advise and recommend to the board of commissioners, as to the assessment and collection of fees for use of county recreational facilities and participation in organizing recreational activities.
(Ord. No. 8, § 8, 2-4-1986)
Secs. 54-40—54-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PARK AND RECREATION FACILITIES

Sec. 54-71. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverage means any wine or malt beverage as defined under the terms of article II of chapter 10 as amended, and distilled spirits and other liquors as defined under O.C.G.A. title 3, and any and all other such substances that may be considered to be alcoholic beverages under state and county law.
Possession means the control or having of alcoholic beverages on or about the person or premises of an individual, including having the beverage on or about the premises of a motor vehicle, possession shall be deemed to be by the person having responsibility for and/or control of the motor vehicle.
Recreation complex means all that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 186th District C.M., Lincoln County, Georgia Recreation Department Complex. The recreation complex includes all and any existing buildings, recreational structures, playing courts and fields now, or which shall become located thereon and become a part thereof.
(Ord. No. 3, § 1, 3-10-1983)
Sec. 54-72. - Hours of operation.
All public parks located in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be opened from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. each day, unless otherwise posted at the entrance to such parks; provided, however, the hours when the public parks are closed shall not apply to persons using the parks for purposes of launching or removing boats, fishing or camping in areas designated for camping within such parks.
(Ord. No. 7, § 1, 6-4-1985)
Sec. 54-73. - Alcoholic beverages.
(a)
No person shall use, possess or consume any alcoholic beverage in public within any public park located in the unincorporated area of the county.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to possess, distribute, consume and/or otherwise use and/or control alcoholic beverages upon the property of the recreation complex.
(Ord. No. 3, § 2, 3-10-1983; Ord. No. 7, § 1 6-4-1985)
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 10.
Sec. 54-74. - Enforcement, prosecution and punishment.
(a)
Enforcement of this article shall be by the county sheriff, his lawful deputies, and any and other law enforcement agents who may be charged by state laws with the responsibility of enforcement of local ordinances, and including officers of any municipal police agency whose jurisdiction may include a portion or all of the recreation complex property, and members of the state patrol.
(b)
Violations of the provisions of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-9.
(Ord. No. 3, § 3, 3-10-1983; Ord. No. 7, § 1, 6-4-1985)
Sec. 54-75. - Parking fees.
(a)
The county board of commissioners may determine that a fee must be paid to park at a public park for a specific length of time. The amount of the fee as well as the time limits will be posted on signage at the public park.
(b)
In any public parks where a fee for parking is charged, it shall be unlawful to enter without depositing the required amount at the designated deposit box.
(c)
Enforcement shall be through a civil action in the magistrate court by the issuance of a citation, which shall either be left with the vehicle or delivered to the person in possession thereof by the county sheriff or any other law enforcement officer as provided in section 54-74.
(1)
For purposes of such civil action, it shall be presumed that the owner of said vehicle is in control and possession thereof. In the event any person is found to have violated this paragraph, such person shall be subject to a fine of $25.00, if paid within five days and $40.00 if paid after five days; provided, however, that if a person is found to have violated this paragraph twice within 180 days of the first offense, such person shall be subject to a fine of $50.00 if paid within five days, and $75.00 if paid after five days; and the third or later citations, if received within 180 days of the first offense, such person shall be subject to $100.00 if paid within five days and $150.00 if paid after five days. For any new tickets received after the 180-day period, the parking fines set forth herein shall revert to the "First Citation" status after the expiration of 180 days from the first offense set forth herein for any other tickets written.
(2)
All fines imposed as punishment for violation shall be paid within ten calendar days to the magistrate court clerk. For purposes of this section, the ten-calendar-day period shall exclude the day of the event, count all days including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, and include the last day of the period, unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. In the event that the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the period continues to run until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. Failure to pay such fines within this time period shall subject the person to contempt proceedings.
(d)
With regard to all parking areas for which a time limitation is established, it shall be deemed a separate violation thereof for each successive time period in which any vehicle is parked therein in excess of such limitation.
(e)
The vehicle of any person which accumulates an excess of ten citations under this chapter and fails to satisfy the fines accompanying the citations shall be impounded by any officer listed in subparagraph (c). The vehicle shall be held until accumulated fines and wrecker fees have been paid in full.
(Ord. of 6-10-2010)
