Chapter 26 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; law enforcement, ch. 38; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Superior courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-1 et seq.; probate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-1 et seq.; magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PENALTY AND BOND FOR JAIL CONSTRUCTION AND STAFFING

Sec. 26-31. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Jail Construction and Staffing Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 22, § 1, 12-5-1989)
Sec. 26-32. - Authority and enactment.
This article is authorized and is enacted pursuant to Ga. Const. art. III, § IX, ¶ VI and O.C.G.A. § 15-21-90, which provisions authorize additional penalty assessments in criminal and traffic cases and cases involving violations of ordinances of political subdivisions and provide that the proceeds derived therefrom may be used for constructing, operating, and staffing of jails, correctional institutions, and detention facilities by counties.
(Ord. No. 22, § 2, 12-5-1989)
Sec. 26-33. - Collection of sums.
(a)
The sums provided for in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93 shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the board of commissioners in which the court is located by the tenth day of the month following the month in which such sums are collected. Such sums paid over to the board of commissioners shall be deposited by the board of commissioners into a special account to be known as the "county jail fund."
(b)
Any person whose duty it is to collect and remit the sums provided for in this article who fails or refuses to remit such sums by the date required by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 22, § 4, 12-5-1989)
Sec. 26-34. - Additional penalties.
(a)
Legislation required.The additional penalties provided for in section 26-33 shall not be imposed or collected in any court in the county until the board of commissioners adopts a resolution placing O.C.G.A. § 15-21-90 et seq. in effect, requiring the imposition and collection of such additional penalties, and agreeing to expend the funds collected for the purposes provided for in such law. The additional penalties provided for in section 26-33 shall not be imposed or collected in any municipal court or other court operated by a municipality unless the municipality and county enter into an intergovernmental contract after January 1, 1990, providing for use of the county jail, correctional institution, or detention facility by municipal prisoners.
(b)
Court-imposed fine.
(1)
In every case in which any superior court, state court, probate court, magistrate court, municipal court or other court in any county or municipality in which O.C.G.A. § 15-21-90 et seq. have been placed in effect as provided in subsection (a) of this section shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any ordinance of a political subdivision thereof, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(2)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or ordinance of a political subdivision thereof, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any superior court, state court, probate court, magistrate court, municipal court, or other court shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be paid over as provided in section 26-33.
(c)
Special funds. Such sums required by subsection (b) of this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund or O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 concerning the Judges of the Probate Courts Retirement Funds of Georgia.
(Ord. No. 22, § 3, 12-5-1989)
Sec. 26-35. - Expenditure of funds.
Moneys collected pursuant to this article and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended by the board of commissioners solely and exclusively for constructing, operating and staffing county jails, county correctional institutions, and detention facilities of the county or for the purpose of contracting for such facilities with other counties, the state, municipalities, regional jail authorities or other political subdivisions as authorized by Ga. Const. art. IX, § III, ¶ I. The county jail fund and moneys collected pursuant to this article to be placed in the county jail fund may be pledged as security for the payment of bonds issued for the construction of county jails, county correctional institutions, detention facilities of the county and jails constructed and operated by regional jail authorities. This article shall not preclude the appropriation or expenditure of other funds by the board of commissioners or by the general assembly for the purpose of constructing, operating, or staffing jails, correctional institutions and detention facilities.
(Ord. No. 22, § 5, 12-5-1989)
Secs. 26-36—26-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RECORDING RIGHT-OF-WAY CONVEYANCES

Sec. 26-71. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accepted means official acceptance by a majority vote of the board of commissioners duly entered on the minutes of the board. Such vote shall be taken during a legally convened meeting of the board. Evidence of such acceptance shall be by attaching the following statement to the instrument of conveyance, "By majority vote of the Board of Commissioners of Lincoln County, Georgia, held on the _____ day of________, 20___ the within property is accepted by said Board. In witness whereof the undersigned has hereunto set its hand and seal on this _____ day of ________, 20 ___. Board of Commissioners of Lincoln County, Georgia. By: ___________, Chairman, Attest: ___________, Clerk."
Deed and other conveyance mean any instrument or writing which conveys title to real property.
(Ord. No. 6, § 3, 6-4-1985)
Sec. 26-72. - Acceptance of property required.
No deed or other conveyance of real property for the purposes of right-of-way for public roads shall be entitled to record in the public records of the county without the property first having been accepted by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 6, § 1, 6-4-1985)
Sec. 26-73. - Acceptance of deed or conveyance required.
The clerk of the superior court of the county, his deputy, or such other officer or agent as shall be authorized by law to file and record deeds or conveyances of real property shall not accept for filing any deed or conveyance of real property for the purpose of right-of-way for public roads which has not first been accepted by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 6, § 2, 6-4-1985)
Sec. 26-74. - Violation of article.
Punishment for violations of this article shall be in the manner prescribed by section 1-9.
(Ord. No. 6, § 4, 6-4-1985)
Secs. 26-75—26-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MAGISTRATE COURT

Sec. 26-101. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide for and govern trials of violations of ordinances of county and state authorities, which violations may be punished by incarceration or monetary penalty.
(Ord. No. 51A, 8-14-2003; Ord. No. 51B, § 1, 10-16-2003)
Sec. 26-102. - Prosecution, service and arrest.
Prosecution, service, and arrest for violations of county ordinances shall be upon citation as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63 or upon accusation by the county attorney or such other attorney as the county governing authority may designate.
(Ord. No. 51A, 8-14-2003; Ord. No. 51B, § 2, 10-16-2003)
Sec. 26-103. - Authority to suspend sentence.
(a)
The trial court may suspend the service of the sentence imposed in the case upon such terms and conditions as it may prescribe for the payment of the fine, for performance of community service in lieu of a fine or incarceration, for the payment of restitution to a victim, or other condition relating to the underlying offense. Service of the sentence, when so suspended, shall not begin unless and until ordered by the court having jurisdiction thereof, after a hearing as in cases of revocation of probated sentences, because of the failure or refusal of the defendant to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of a sentence was suspended.
(b)
Service of all or any part of any sentence suspended upon such conditions may be ordered to commence by the trial court any time before the expiration of one year from the date of the sentence after a hearing and a finding by the court that the defendant has failed or refused to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of the sentence was suspended.
(Ord. No. 51A, 8-14-2003; Ord. No. 51B, § 3(b), (c), 10-16-2003)
Sec. 26-104. - Jury trials.
There shall be no jury trials in the magistrate court. Any defendant who is charged with one or more ordinance violations may, at any time before trial, demand that the case be removed for a jury trial to the state court of the county or to the superior court of the county if there is no state court. Such a demand shall be written. Upon such a demand the court shall grant the demand. Failure to so demand removal of the case shall constitute a waiver of any right to trial by jury which the defendant may otherwise have.
(Ord. No. 51A, 8-14-2003; Ord. No. 51B, § 4, 10-16-2003)
Sec. 26-105. - Violations of ordinances; prosecution for violations.
(a)
Ordinance violations may be tried upon citations with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as upon accusations.
(b)
Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by the county agent who completes and serves it.
(c)
Prosecutions for violations of ordinances upon citations shall be commenced by the completion, signing, and service of a citation by any agent of the county who is authorized by the county governing authority to issue citations. A copy of the citation shall be personally served upon the accused; and the original shall promptly be filed with the court.
(d)
No person shall be arrested prior to the time of trial, except for the offenses of public drunkenness or disorderly conduct; provided, however that the accused may be arrested prior to the time of trial for the violation of a county ordinance relating to loitering; and provided, further, that any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall be arrested thereafter on the warrant of the magistrate and required to post a bond for his future appearance.
(Ord. No. 51A, 8-14-2003; Ord. No. 51B, § 5, 10-16-2003)
Sec. 26-106. - Appearance in court; failure to appear.
(a)
The chief magistrate shall establish a schedule of cash bonds for the personal appearance in court of any person charged with a violation of an ordinance. The chief magistrate shall designate the officer authorized to accept cash bonds pursuant to the schedule of bonds published by the court. In no event shall any officer or agent who is authorized to issue citations be authorized to accept a cash bond at the time of or in conjunction with the issuance of any citation. The officer accepting a cash bond shall issue a receipt for the bond to the person charged with the violation.
(b)
Any person who is accused by citation but has not been arrested may, but shall not be required to, give a cash bond for his personal appearance in court for trial. If a person who has given a cash bond fails to appear for trial, the failure to appear shall be deemed to constitute a guilty plea and such cash bond shall be forfeited upon the call of the case for trial. It shall not be necessary for the county to take any further action to forfeit the cash bond. Forfeiture of a cash bond shall be deemed to constitute imposition of a sentence and payment of a fine and shall be a bar to a subsequent prosecution of the accused for the violation. The court may, however, in any case enter an order pursuant to which bond forfeiture shall not be deemed to constitute imposition of a sentence and subsequent prosecution shall not be barred; and in any such case the amount of the bond forfeited shall be credited against any fine subsequently imposed.
(c)
It shall be the duty of the clerk of magistrate court to furnish the officer authorized under the order with a book of blank receipts consecutively numbered in triplicate and readily distinguishable and identifiable. The receipts shall be completed by the officers when accepting a cash bond so as to show the name of the person cited or arrested, the date of citation or arrest, nature of the offense, amount of cash bond given, and the name of the receiving officer. The receiving officer shall deliver a copy of the receipt to the person cited or arrested at the time the cash bond is given and shall file the original together with the cash bond with the clerk of the magistrate court not later than the next succeeding business day following the date of issuance of the receipt.
(Ord. No. 51A, 8-14-2003; Ord. No. 51B, § 6, 10-16-2003)
Sec. 26-107. - Execution; sheriff to receive and house persons sentenced to confinement.
(a)
Execution may issue immediately upon any fine imposed by the court and not immediately paid.
(b)
The sheriff shall receive and house all persons sentenced to confinement for contempt or arrested or sentenced to confinement for violation of ordinances.
(Ord. No. 51A, 8-14-2003; Ord. No. 51B, § 7, 10-16-2003)
Sec. 26-108. - Review of convictions.
Review of convictions shall be by certiorari to the superior court.
(Ord. No. 51A, 8-14-2003; Ord. No. 51B, § 8, 10-16-2003)
