ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATIVE MECHANISMS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 34-31. - Planning commission.
There shall be a planning commission consisting of five members.
(1)
Appointment and terms.
a.
Planning commission members shall be appointed by the board of commissioners. For the purpose of appointing members to the planning commission, the county shall be divided into four districts which shall be coterminous with board of commissioners districts, one member of the planning commission shall be a resident of each such district. The fifth member shall be appointed by the chair from the county at large. Members shall serve four-year staggered terms and may continue until their successors are duly appointed. The board of commissioners shall have the right to remove any member of the planning commission for cause.
b.
The planning commission shall annually elect one of its members as chair.
(2)
Powers and duties.
a.
Specific limitations of powers. The planning commission does not have the power to amend these regulations, to rezone any land, to declare this chapter or any amendment thereto invalid or to allow any use not permitted by this chapter.
b.
Duties. The duties of the planning commission shall include:
1.
Review and approve all plats.
2.
Review and approve all development plans.
3.
Review and approve all subdivision developmental plans.
4.
Recommend to the board of commissioners approval or disapproval of all requests for zoning changes after a public hearing.
5.
Recommend to the board of commissioners any changes in this chapter that the planning commission believes are appropriate.
6.
Grant approval or denial of a special use permit after a public hearing.
7.
Hear and make recommendations to the board of commissioners for approval or disapproval of all variances from the terms of this chapter after a public hearing.
8.
Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that there is an error in any order, requirement, permit, decision or refusal made by the director or other administrative official in the administration or enforcement of any provisions of this chapter.
9.
Questions involving interpretation of the zoning map ("official map"), including district boundary lines and lot lines, as provided in section 34-492.
10.
Advise the board of commissioners on matters of zoning and land development as it may deem appropriate.
11.
Conduct such other business and affairs as may be, from time to time, designated by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 48, § 3-1, 1-9-2003)
Cross reference— Other boards and commissions, § 2-141 et seq.
Sec. 34-32. - Board of commissioners.
The board of commissioners shall hear and make decisions concerning:
(1)
Proposed amendments to this chapter;
(2)
Adoption and amendments to the zoning map and the text of the ordinance;
(3)
Applications for variances, as specified in section 34-383; and
(4)
Approval, disapproval or other action on all requests for zoning changes as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 48, § 3-2, 1-9-2003)
Cross reference— Board of commissioners, § 2-31 et seq.
Sec. 34-33. - Director of planning and zoning.
The director of planning and zoning or director shall have the power and duty to provide the following services related to this chapter:
(1)
Issue and when necessary revoke building permits as specified in section 34-423.
(2)
Issue a certificate of occupancy as required in section 34-424.
(3)
Issue and when necessary revoke a manufactured home permit as specified in section 34-554.
(4)
Issue a sign permit.
(5)
Answer all questions of interpretation of the provisions of this chapter.
(6)
Administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(7)
Meet with a developer, if requested, during a preapplication conference to discuss a development proposal as defined in section 34-102.
(8)
Dispense general information about this chapter to the public upon request.
(9)
Review and approve plats of existing parcels and divisions not to include major subdivisions.
(10)
Approve home occupations or cottage industries as uses permitted by right.
(11)
Approve minor variances in zoning dimensional requirements providing the intent of the dimensional requirements is maintained.
(12)
Approve minor variances of no more than 50 feet for prohibited uses within a designated entrance corridor.
(Ord. No. 48, § 3-3, 1-9-2003; Ord. of 2-8-2018)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-201 et seq.
Secs. 34-34—34-60. - Reserved.
