ARTICLE XIII. - ENFORCEMENT, FEES AND PENALTIES

Sec. 34-421. - Enforcement.
The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the director of planning and zoning or his designee. This official shall have the right to enter upon any premises for the purpose of making inspections of buildings or premises necessary to carry out his duties in the enforcement of this chapter. In addition, he shall issue all building permits and make and maintain records thereof, issue all certificates of occupancy and make and maintain records thereof, and conduct inspections as prescribed by this chapter and other such inspections as are necessary to insure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. No. 48, § 14-1, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-422. - Building permits required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or the construction of any building or structure including accessory structures, or to commence the moving, alteration or repair of any structure including accessory structures, until the director or designee has issued for such work a building permit containing a statement that the plans, specifications and intended use of such structure in all respects conform with the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 48, § 14-2, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-423. - Application for building permit.
(a)
Application for a building permit shall be made in writing to the director of planning and zoning on forms provided for that purpose. It shall be unlawful for the director of planning and zoning to approve the plans or issue a building permit for any excavation or construction until he has inspected such plans in detail and found them to be in conformity with this chapter. To this end, the director of planning and zoning may require that every application for a building permit for excavation, construction, moving or alteration shall be accompanied by a plan or plat drawn to scale and showing the following in sufficient detail to enable the director of planning and zoning to ascertain whether the proposed excavation, construction, moving or alteration is in conformance with this chapter. The plat shall include:
(1)
The actual shape, location and dimensions of the lot to be built upon.
(2)
The shape, height, use and location on the lot, building or structures to be erected or altered.
(3)
The sizes, locations and use of all existing buildings or structures on the lot.
(4)
The number of dwelling units the building, if residential, is designed to accommodate.
(5)
The setback lines of building and unloading spaces.
(6)
The layout of off-street parking and unloading spaces.
(7)
Signature of the county health officer approving the proposed location of the septic tank and field lines provided public sewerage is not available.
(8)
Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential in determining whether the provisions of this chapter and any applicable subdivision improvement agreement are being observed.
(b)
If the proposed excavation, construction, moving or alteration as set forth in the application for a building permit is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and any applicable subdivision improvement agreement, the director of planning and zoning shall issue a building permit for such excavation, construction, moving or alteration. If the application for a building permit is not approved, the director of planning and zoning shall state in writing on the application the cause for such disapproval. Issuance of a permit shall, in no case, be construed as waiving any provision of this chapter, and building permits shall be void after twelve months from date of issuance. If substantial progress on the project has been made by that time, an extension of the permit may be granted.
(Ord. No. 48, § 14-3, 1-9-2003; Amend. of 5-11-2006)
Sec. 34-424. - Certificate of occupancy.
No land or building or other structure or part thereof hereafter erected, moved or altered in its use shall be occupied or used until the director of planning and zoning has issued a certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued in accordance to the provisions of this chapter. If the certificate of occupancy is not granted upon request, the director of planning and zoning shall state in writing the reasons why the certificate was not granted. The county shall not issue certificates of occupancy to any owner of a parcel created in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 48, § 14-4, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-425. - Subdivision requirements.
(a)
Filing and recording. No plat of a subdivision within the county shall be filed or recorded by the clerk of superior court of the county, until the final plat shall have been submitted to and approved according to this chapter.
(b)
Transfer or sale before approval prohibited. No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of the land located in a proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any part of the parcel before a final plat of the subdivision has been approved by the planning commission in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and filed with the clerk of the superior court of the county.
(c)
Street specifications. The county shall not accept any subdivision not designed, developed and recorded in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, nor shall it improve, maintain, grade or pave any street within such subdivision unless such street shall have met the specifications described in this chapter.
(d)
Unauthorized conveyances. No lot, street, alley, improvement, easement, right-of-way or other property or property right of any kind shall be conveyed, by deed or otherwise, to the county, the governing authority or other public authority without its express acceptance of such conveyance as indicated by the signature of its authorized agent on such deed or other document of conveyance.
(e)
Water and sewer service. The county shall not authorize the extension of water service, sewer service, or other publicly operated services of any subdivision not designed, developed and recorded in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or to extend utility services to any parcel created in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 48, § 14-5, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-426. - Fees.
Reasonable fees shall be paid along with the application for approval of a preliminary plat or final plat. The amount of the fees charged shall be as set forth by the board of commissioners. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the director and may be altered or amended only by the board of commissioners. Until all applicable fees have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. Fees will be assessed to cover the cost of administration, inspection, publication of notice and similar matters may be charged to applicants for rezoning applications, special use permits, variance applications, subdivision plat approval, sign permits and other administrative relief.
(Ord. No. 48, § 14-6, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-427. - Penalties for violation.
Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500.00 per violation or imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 60 days, or both, and in addition shall pay the cost of such action. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 48, § 14-7, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-428. - Civil enforcement.
Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken in law or in equity to prevent any violation of this chapter, to prevent unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct, or abate a violation and to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises. These remedies shall be in addition to the penalties described in section 34-427.
(Ord. No. 48, § 14-8, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-429. - Complaints regarding violations.
Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the director. The director shall record properly such complaint, immediately investigate and take action thereon as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 48, § 14-9, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 34-430. - Judicial review.
Any person aggrieved because of the alleged error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the planning commission, board of commissioners, or any other party in the enforcement of this chapter, any time may take an appeal to the superior court of the county. The appeal to the superior court shall be the same as an appeal to the superior court as specified in O.C.G.A. § 5-3-1 et seq., except, however, that the appeal may be filed within 30 days from the date of the decision of the planning commission, the board of commissioners or of any official charged with the enforcement of any order, requirement or decision in connection therewith; and upon failure to file the appeal within 30 days, the decision of the board of commissioners or planning commission shall be final.
(Ord. No. 48, § 14-10, 1-9-2003)
Secs. 34-431—34-460. - Reserved.
