Chapter 46 - NATURAL RESOURCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 30; land development, ch. 34; dedication and reservation of land development, § 34-281 et seq.; parks and recreation, ch. 54; solid waste, ch. 58; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 62; utilities, ch. 70; water conservation facilities, § 70-141 et seq.; waterways, ch. 74; protection of wetlands, § 74-31 et seq.
State Law reference— Protection of natural resources, environment, etc., O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 46-1—46-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PROTECTION OF GROUNDWATER RECHARGE AREA[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 30.

Sec. 46-31. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Ordinance of Lincoln County, Georgia."
(Ord. No. 39, § 1.1, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-32. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aquifer means any stratum (rock layer) or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Groundwater recharge area (synonymous with aquifer recharge area) means an area of the earth's surface where water infiltrated the ground, thereby replenishing the groundwater supplies within an aquifer.
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of groundwater to pollution from chemical spills, leaching of pollutants from dump sites, animal waste from agricultural operations or pollution generated by other human activities.
Pollution susceptibility maps means maps prepared by the state department of natural resources that show the relative susceptibility of groundwater to pollution. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the state into areas of high, medium and low groundwater pollution potential.
Significant groundwater recharge areas means areas mapped by the department of natural resources in Hydrologic Atlas, 18 1989 edition. Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology (chemical nature and form of the rock), soil type and thickness, slope, density of lithologic contacts, geologic structure, presence of "karst" topography (sinkholes, caves and fissures associated with limestone and other carbonate rocks), and potentiometric surfaces.
(Ord. No. 39, § 10, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-33. - Findings of fact.
(a)
In order to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the public and a healthy economic climate within the county and surrounding communities, it is essential that the quality of public drinking water be ensured. For this reason, it is necessary to protect the subsurface water resources that are contained within aquifers, which are permeable, rock strata occupying vast regions of the subsurface. These aquifers are replenished by infiltration of surface water runoff in zones of the surface known as groundwater recharge areas.
(b)
Groundwater is susceptible to contamination when unrestricted development occurs within significant groundwater recharge areas. It is, therefore, necessary to manage land use within groundwater recharge areas in order to ensure that pollution threats are minimized.
(Ord. No. 39, § 1.2, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-34. - Objectives.
The objectives of this article are to protect groundwater quality by:
(1)
Restricting land uses that generate, use or store dangerous pollutants in recharge areas;
(2)
Limiting density of development; and
(3)
Ensuring that any development that occurs within the recharge area shall have no adverse effect on groundwater quality.
(Ord. No. 39, § 1.3, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-35. - Establishment of a groundwater recharge area district.
A groundwater recharge area district is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the jurisdiction of the county that are mapped as significant recharge areas by the state department of natural resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18, 1989 edition.
(Ord. No. 39, § 2, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-36. - Pollution susceptibility.
All recharge areas within the county have low pollution susceptibility, as indicated by the state pollution susceptibility map prepared by the state department of natural resources.
(Ord. No. 39, § 3, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-37. - Permit requirements.
The county will approve no building permit or subdivision plan unless the permit, request or plan is in compliance with the groundwater protection standards listed in section 46-44.
(Ord. No. 39, § 4, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-38. - Enforcement.
The county, its agent, officers and employees shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing their duties under this article and may take or cause to be made such examinations, surveys or sampling as the county deems necessary:
(1)
The department of planning and zoning is hereby designated as the administrator for this article, and the code enforcement officer (CEO) is hereby designated as the enforcement officer for this article.
(2)
The code enforcement officer shall have authority to enforce this article; issue permits under this article; and address violations or threatened violations hereof by issuance of violation notices, administrative orders and civil and criminal actions. All costs, fees and expenses in connection with such actions may be recovered as damages against the violator.
(3)
Law enforcement officials or other officials having police powers shall have authority to assist the code enforcement officer in enforcement.
(4)
Any person who commits, takes part in or assists in any violation of any provision of this article shall be fined not less than $100.00 for each offense. Each violation shall be a separate offense and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
(5)
The code enforcement officer shall have the authority to issue cease and desist orders in the event of any violation of this article. Cease and desist orders may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as identified in section 46-45.
(6)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to remove the structure.
(7)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable.
(Ord. No. 39, § 4.1, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-39. - Permit review and site plan requirement.
With the exception of certain exempted activities identified in section 46-40, applications for a development permit within the groundwater recharge area district shall include a site plan. The following information is required for all site plans:
(1)
A map, drawn to a scale of one inch equals 50 feet or other approved scale, showing all planned improvements including the width, depth and length of all existing and proposed structures, roads, watercourses and drainageways, water lines, wastewater and stormwater facilities, and utility installations, shall be provided by the applicant.
(2)
Location, dimensions and areas of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site.
(3)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(4)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than five feet.
(5)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(6)
Calculations of the amount of cut and fill proposed and cross sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades in areas of fill or excavation. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on cross sectional drawings.
(7)
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform to the specifications of the site plan. Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of stormwater runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of development, result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill or removal of the overall appearance of the development as proposed, can be amended only with the approval of the department of planning and zoning. Minor changes, such as the realignment of streets or minor alternations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions are exempted from this requirement.
(Ord. No. 39, § 4.2, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-40. - Exemptions to site plan requirements.
The following activities and developments are exempt from the requirement for detailed site plans:
(1)
Single-family detached homes constructed within a subdivision of fewer than five parcels.
(2)
Repairs to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
(3)
Construction of minor structures, such as sheds or additions to single-family residences.
(Ord. No. 39, § 4.3, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-41. - Review procedures.
The application shall be made to the department of planning and zoning, and will be reviewed within 14 days. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, approval with conditions or disapproval) by the department of planning and zoning. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the department of planning and zoning. If the review process is not completed within 30 days, the application is considered to be approved. Decisions of the department of planning and zoning may be appealed to the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 39, § 4.4, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-42. - Public notice and public hearing.
Public notice of permit applications, through publication in local newspapers, is required. A public hearing on the application, to be held before the board of commissioners may be scheduled if requested by a citizen. Public announcement of the hearing shall be printed in a local newspaper of general circulation at least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the hearing. A record of the proceedings shall be made and kept on file by the county. Any person may testify at the hearing. Decisions of the board of commissioners may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction identified in section 46-45.
Sec. 46-43. - Duration of permit validity.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
(c)
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the department of planning and zoning.
(Ord. No. 39, § 4.6, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-44. - Groundwater protection standards.
(a)
Waste disposal facilities and synthetic liners. For all pollution susceptibility areas, new waste disposal facilities must have synthetic liners and leachate collection systems.
(b)
Waste impoundment sites. New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area; a medium pollution susceptibility area and exceed 15 acre feet; or a low pollution susceptibility area and exceed 50 acre feet. As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one-foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 ×10 -7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the natural resource and conservation service.
(c)
Hazardous waste disposal facilities. No land disposal of hazardous waste shall be permitted within any significant groundwater recharge area.
(d)
Hazardous waste handling and storage. New facilities that handle hazardous materials of the types listed in section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and in amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day, shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and local fire code requirements.
(e)
Aboveground chemical and petroleum storage tanks. For all significant groundwater recharge areas, new aboveground chemical or petroleum storage tanks having a minimum of 660 gallons shall have secondary containment for 110 percent of the volume of such tanks or 110 percent of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt, provided they comply with all federal requirements.
(f)
Minimum lot sizes for new homes. New homes served by septic tank/drain systems shall be on lots having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-1 of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems ("DHR Table MT-1"). The minimums set forth in Table MT-1 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A—F) of the DHR manual.
(1)
One hundred fifty percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
(2)
One hundred twenty-five percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area; and
(3)
One hundred ten percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(g)
Minimum lot sizes for new mobile home parks. New mobile home parks served by septic tank/drainfield systems shall have lots or spaces having the following size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-2 of the Department of Human Resources' (DHR) Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems ("DHR Table MR-2"). The minimums set forth in Table MT-2 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A—F) of the DHR Manual.
(1)
One hundred fifty percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
(2)
One hundred twenty-five percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area; and
(3)
One hundred ten percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(h)
Approval by health department required. No construction may proceed on a building or mobile home to be served by septic tanks unless the county health department first approves the proposed septic tank installations as meeting the requirements of the state department of human resources for on-site sewage management, and subsections (f) and (g) of this section.
(Ord. No. 39, § 5, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-45. - Judicial review.
(a)
Jurisdiction. All final decisions of the county concerning denial, approval or conditional approval of a permit shall be reviewable in the county superior court.
(b)
Alternative actions. Based on these proceedings and the decision of the court, the county may, within the time specified by the court elect to:
(1)
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement of fee interest in the applicant's land;
(2)
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
(3)
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the department of planning and zoning.
(Ord. No. 39, § 6, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-46. - Amendments.
This article may, from time to time, be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information becomes available.
(Ord. No. 39, § 7, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 46-47. - Assessment relief.
Assessors and boards of assessors shall consider the requirements of these regulations in determining the fair market value of land.
(Ord. No. 39, § 8, 4-12-2001)
