PART II - RELATED LAWS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Part II contains local constitutional amendments and state laws of local application. Amendments to the original acts are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text has been used to conform to the Code of Ordinances. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - AIRPORT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the 1964 act of the general assembly, as amended, which created the St. Marys Airport Authority. It may be cited as 1964 Ga. Laws, page 2438.
Charter reference— Boards and commissions, § 4-103.
Code reference—Boards and commissions, § 2-111 et seq.
State Law reference— Acquisition, construction and maintenance of airports by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.; powers of counties and municipalities as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25; authorization to enforce police regulations in airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-27.

Section 1. - Short title.
This act may be cited as the "St. Marys Airport Authority Act."
Section 2. - St. Marys Airport Authority.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the St. Marys Airport Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style and title and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority of the trustee acting under the trust indenture herein provided for shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents and employees of the authority. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
Editor's note— Because of an apparent scrivener's error in the act creating the airport authority, it was denominated as the Saint Marys Airport Authority. It is referred to throughout the text of this article as the St. Marys Airport Authority for consistency with section 1-101 of the city's Charter.
Section 3. - Membership.
The St. Marys Airport Authority shall be composed of five members who shall be appointed by, shall serve at the pleasure of, and may be removed with cause by the mayor and city council of the City of St. Marys, Georgia. Within 30 days after the approval of this act, it shall be the duty of the mayor and city council of the City of St. Marys, Georgia, to appoint by ordinance the membership of the authority, three of whom shall be appointed for a term of four years, ending December 31, 1967, and two of whom shall be appointed for a term of two years, ending December 31, 1965. All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of four years, and until their successors shall have been duly appointed and qualified. No person shall be appointed to membership on the Authority unless he or she is a free-holder in Camden County and has the same qualification as are required for a person to vote in Camden County, Georgia.
(1979 Ga. Laws, page 3278)
Section 4. - Meetings.
The authority shall hold their first regular meeting after the approval of this act, and the first regular meeting of each year thereafter shall be in January. The authority shall meet at such times as may be necessary to transact the business coming before it, but not less than quarterly. At its first meeting in January of each year thereafter, the authority shall elect one of its members as its chairman and another member as secretary-treasurer. Only one person shall hold the office of secretary-treasurer. These officers shall be elected for a term ending on December 31 of the year in which they were elected or until their successors are elected and qualified. Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business coming before it. The members of the authority shall be compensated as determined from time to time by the mayor and council of said city, however, it is expressly provided that they shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Section 5. - Vacancies in office.
In the event of a vacancy on the authority by reason of death, resignation or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled by the appointing authority and the person so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
Section 6. - Definitions.
As used in this act the following words and terms have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "authority" shall mean the "St. Marys Airport Authority" as created by the provisions of this act.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, improving and operation of public airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, and related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property, both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all such facilities, including real and personal property so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance and operation of such airports, and landing fields for the use of aircraft deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable for the operation of such airports and landing fields and the industrial development of the area within the perimeter of the lands now held and owned by said city.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, location of industry to be established within the industrial park area defined as being within said City of St. Marys Airport lands, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery, equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and improving the same, the placing of the same in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of any funds of the authority including the proceeds from any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act for any such project or projects.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds," "bonds," and "obligations" as used in this act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36 et seq.) amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761, et seq., as amended) and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto, and in addition shall also mean obligations of the authority the issuance of which are hereinafter authorized in this act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating," if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Section 7. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease, dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, gift or otherwise, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchise necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contract with respect to the use of or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority. Provided, however, in the event the mayor and council of the City of St. Marys, Georgia, sees fit to convey that certain tract of land now owned by it known as the "City of St. Marys Airport lands" which said city is hereby authorized to do, said city is hereby authorized to convey and said authority is hereby authorized to accept an instrument of conveyance of title upon any terms and conditions deemed proper and advisable in the premises by the mayor and council of said city including, at the discretion of the mayor and council, a reservation amounting to joint city-authority control thereby requiring the approval and joint execution by the city of all deeds, leases, mortgages, encumbrances and contracts in favor of third parties.
(d)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient including contracts for construction of projects or leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the State are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they may deem advisable; the said authority is further granted the authority to make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient with the United States government or any agency or department thereof concerning the projects of the authority, subject to the rights and interests of the holder of any of the bonds or obligations authorized to be issued hereunder, and by the resolution or trust indenture of the authority authorizing the issuance of any of its bonds or obligations as provided in section 21 of this act;
(f)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of Revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality or other source may impose;
(h)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision or any other source, may impose;
(i)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(j)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state, except the right of eminent domain;
(k)
The authority and the trustee acting under the trust indenture, are specifically authorized subject from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real or personal, or interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created, except as such right and power may be limited as provided in section 2 and section 21 hereof;
(l)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers especially given in this act.
Section 8. - Revenue bonds.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates as may be authorized by the authority from time to time, shall be payable semiannually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 30 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 36 et seq.) amending the Law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761, et seq., as amended), and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereof.
Section 9. - Form, denominations, registration, place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
Section 10. - Signatures, seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and attested by the secretary-treasurer of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and secretary-treasurer of the authority. Any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of delivery and payment of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Section 11. - Negotiability, exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instrument law of the state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds, their transfer, and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
Section 12. - Sale, price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority, but no such sale shall be made at a price less than par as provided in the Revenue Bond Law unless said Revenue Bond Law be hereafter amended to permit the sale of such bonds at less than par.
Section 13. - Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit for the cost of the project or projects, which unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purposes. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into a sinking fund or used for additional construction as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture.
Section 14. - Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Section 15. - Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Section 16. - Conditions precedent to issuance, object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as in this act provided.
Section 17. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Camden County, or any municipality therein, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not be directly, indirectly or contingently obligate the said county, or any municipality therein, to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Section 18. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority, including the proceeds derived from the company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this act and such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
Section 19. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Section 20. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued and any monies derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal of the authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agent or agents for paying interest and principal and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Section 21. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act or sale from time to time of any surplus property of the authority, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the property, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the authority, both real and personal, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Section 22. - Refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Section 23. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedures of said Revenue Bond Law. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government or any department or agency of the United States government, if subject to be sued, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality, shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the United States government if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said St. Marys airport authority.
Section 24. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the superior court of Camden County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Section 25. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Section 26. - Monies received considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act.
Section 27. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of the act the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, improving and operating airports and landing field for the use of aircraft, including any related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and to lease or sell any or all of such facilities including real property and to do any and all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient or desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings, and the developing of an industrial complex within the perimeter of those certain lands now owned by the City of St. Marys, Georgia, together with any other undertaking incident thereto.
Section 28. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions or subleases or [of] its lands or facilities, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects.
Section 29. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this act, including the basis on which airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft shall be furnished.
Section 30. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Section 31. - Liberal construction of act.
This act being for the purpose of promoting the health, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the United States, of the State of Georgia and of Camden County, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
Section 32. - Jurisdiction.
All property, the title to which shall vest in said authority shall be and become a part of the corporate limits of the City of St. Marys and shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the City of St. Marys in the same manner and subject to the police powers of the City of St. Marys and the same laws, ordinances, rules and regulations as are now or may hereafter be in effect in the City of St. Marys.
ARTICLE II. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1991 Ga. Laws ex. sess., page 460 which granted a homestead exemption for qualified residents as defined in the act.
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 90.

Section 1. - Grant of exemption.
(a)
Each resident of the City of St. Marys who is 65 years of age or older is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of St. Marys ad valorem taxes for any city purposes, including, but not limited to, taxes to retire bonded indebtedness, for the value of that resident's homestead, as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
(b)
The exemption provided by this act shall not be granted unless the resident's net income, together with the net income of that resident's spouse who also occupies and resides at such homestead, as net income is defined by Georgia law, from all sources, except as otherwise provided in this section, does not exceed $25,000.00 for the immediately preceding taxable year for income tax purposes. For the purposes of this act, net income shall not include income received as retirement, survivor, or disability benefits under the federal Social Security Act or under any other public or private retirement, disability, or pension system, except such income which is in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be paid to an individual and that individual's spouse under the federal Social Security Act; and income from such sources in excess of such maximum amount shall be included as net income for the purposes of this act.
Section 2. - Application; necessary information.
The governing authority of the City of St. Marys or its designee shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this act and shall require with the initial application an affidavit by the owner as to the age and income of the owner, the income of the owner's spouse who occupies and resides at the homestead, and such other information as may be necessary to determine the eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
Section 3. - Eligibility.
The exemption granted by this act shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. Any person who, as of January 1, 1991, has applied for and is eligible for the $8,000.00 homestead exemption for each resident of the City of St. Marys who is 65 years of age or older and whose income does not exceed $10,000.00 pursuant to a local constitutional amendment found at 1980 Ga. Laws, page 2260, and continued in force and effect as statutory law pursuant to article VII, section II, paragraph IV of the Constitution, shall be eligible for the homestead exemption granted by this Act without further application.
Section 4. - Duty of resident to notify city of ineligibility.
After any such owner has filed the proper affidavit and, if disabled, the proper certificate, as provided in this Act, and has been allowed the exemption provided in this act, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file such affidavit and certificate for any year thereafter and such exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any resident of the City of St. Marys who has claimed the homestead exemption provided for in this act to notify the governing authority of the City of St. Marys or its designee in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason to receive such homestead exemption.
Section 5. - Exemption to be in lieu of any other homestead exemption.
The exemption granted by this Act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from City of St. Marys ad valorem taxes.
Section 6. - Applicability.
The exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1991.
Section 7. - Exemption does not effect county or state taxes.
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect any county taxes for county purposes, county school district taxes for educational purposes, or state taxes.
Section 8. - Repeal of previous provision.
If this Act is approved in the referendum provided for in section 9 of this Act, that local constitutional amendment providing an $8,000.00 homestead exemption for each resident of the City of St. Marys who is 65 years of age or older and whose income does not exceed $10,000.00 found at 1980 Ga. Laws, page 2260, and continued in force and effect as statutory law pursuant to article VII, section II, paragraph IV of the Constitution, is repealed effective at the last moment of December 31, 1991.
Editor's note— Section nine has been omitted from this compilation as unnecessary to codify.
ARTICLE III. - STABILIZED TAX PROGRAM[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Pursuant to 1959 Ga. Laws, page 460, art. 7, sec. 1 of the Georgia Constitution was amended to authorize the governing authority of the city to bind itself by contract to a stabilized property tax program.
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 90.

Sec. 1. - Authority to contract.
The City of St. Marys is hereby granted authority to bind itself by contract to a stabilized property tax program with any corporation, partnership or individual.
ARTICLE IV. - OAK GROVE CEMETERY AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— See Ch. 30, "Cemeteries".

Section 1. - Creation of authority.
There is created the Oak Grove Cemetery Authority which is referred to in this Act as the "authority." The authority shall be an instrumentality and political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 2. - Purpose of authority.
The purpose of the authority shall be to oversee the care and preservation of the cemetery for the City of St. Marys by creating a trust fund for the purpose of providing for the cemetery's maintenance, repair, and preservation in perpetuity; to raise funds and accept donations for such care and other special projects to enhance the cemetery; and to monitor conditions at the cemetery to ensure that it is kept in good condition.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the Oak Grove Cemetery Authority created by this Act.
(2)
"Cemetery" means the Oak Grove Cemetery in St. Marys, Georgia, and any additional property purchased by the City of St. Marys adjacent to such cemetery for the purpose of burials.
(3)
"Mayor and council" means the mayor and council of the City of St. Marys.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 4. - Jurisdiction.
The authority shall have jurisdiction over the Oak Grove Cemetery and any additional property purchased by the City of St. Marys adjacent to the Oak Grove Cemetery for the purpose of burials.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 5. - Authority membership.
The authority shall be composed of five members appointed by the mayor and council of the City of St. Marys. The initial appointments shall be made no later than June 30, 2012. The initial appointees shall take office on July 1, 2012. In making the initial appointments, the mayor and council of the City of St. Marys shall appoint one member to a term of office ending on December 31, 2013, and until his or her successor is selected and qualified; two members to terms of office ending on December 31, 2014, and until their respective successors are selected and qualified; and two members to terms of office ending December 31, 2015, and until their respective successors are selected and qualified. Thereafter, a successor to each member shall be appointed not later than December 31 of the year immediately preceding the end of such member's term of office, shall take office on January 1 following such appointment, and shall serve terms of three years and until his or her successor is selected and qualified. A member shall not be eligible to succeed himself or herself after serving two full three-year terms of office. In making such appointments, the mayor and council shall, to the extent available and consistent with their discretion, give preference in their appointments to persons from the professional disciplines of financial investment, historic preservation, mortuary science, accounting, and the ministry. All persons appointed shall be residents of the City of St. Marys and shall remain residents throughout their terms of office.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 6. - Vacancies.
(a)
A member's position on the authority shall be vacated by failure to attend three consecutive meetings of the authority unless such member is excused in writing by the chairperson for good cause shown.
(b)
Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the mayor and council for the unexpired term of the member whose position on the authority has been vacated.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 7. - Chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary-treasurer.
At its initial meeting and at the first meeting of each calendar year, the authority shall elect from among its members a chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary-treasurer.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 8. - Meetings.
The authority shall meet not less than quarterly in regular meetings or in special meetings upon call of the chairperson or two members of the authority to monitor the financial investments of the authority and to discuss conditions in the cemetery which need to be addressed. Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with O.C.G.A., tit. 50, ch. 14. Minutes of all meetings of the authority shall be kept and filed with the city clerk of the City of St. Marys.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 9. - Financial report.
A financial report shall be made annually by the authority to the mayor and council of the City of St. Marys at a time designated by the mayor and council.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 10. - Conflicts of interest and ethics.
The members of the authority shall be subject to the St. Marys ethics ordinance in the same manner as the mayor and members of the mayor and council.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 11. - Powers.
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
To contract with other entities, including the City of St. Marys, and be contracted with to provide regular maintenance and repairs of the cemetery; to lay out, sell, and record lots; to supervise burials; and to generally provide all operations necessary to keep the cemetery in good order;
(2)
To hire professionals when needed for matters requiring outside expertise on technical subjects regarding the cemetery's care;
(3)
To monitor conditions at the cemetery and notify the mayor and council when the cemetery is not in good condition;
(4)
To receive donations, grants, and funds from various sources and to ensure that those funds are used prudently to improve or maintain the cemetery in the manner specified by the donors or grantors;
(5)
To seek state and federal funds for cemetery preservation for conducting educational programs and the enhancement of the grounds, for signage to encourage tourism, and for any other benefit to the cemetery as deemed necessary by the authority;
(6)
To raise funds for special needs and projects for the cemetery;
(7)
To establish, with the approval of the mayor and council, other burial alternatives such as mausoleums, scattering fields for ashes, and columbaria, in order to increase income to care for the cemetery or for other projects to enhance the cemetery for the visiting public;
(8)
To participate in private, city, state and federal historic preservation programs in the City of St. Marys;
(9)
To work with the St. Marys Historic Preservation Commission to preserve the historic and aesthetic values of the cemetery;
(10)
To adopt rules of operation for the authority;
(11)
To create and adopt an investment policy to provide for the safety of the funds held by the authority; and
(12)
To decide upon and adopt a method of assessing the performance of the investments chosen to increase the funds held by the authority.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 12. - Funding.
A portion of the proceeds from the sale of each burial lot in the cemetery for the City of St. Marys, to be not less than one-half of the proceeds from each such lot, shall be deposited in trust with the authority in an account held by the authority and designated solely for the care of the cemetery in accordance with the purposes of the authority as specified in Section 2 of this Act. The authority shall have the power to invest such funds subject only to a general duty of fiduciary responsibility. The authority shall be authorized to make prudent investments without being limited to those investments allowed to municipalities under Georgia law.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 13. - Distribution of investment income.
As the City of St. Marys' income from lot sales diminishes, an increasing portion of the authority's annual investment income shall be used to replace it until such time as the entire expense of the cemetery's maintenance and care is paid from authority funds. No uses for authority funds, including investment income, shall be made other than those set forth in this Act. The principal amount held in the authority's care shall remain intact and at no time shall any part of it be used for any purpose, except in the case of emergency damage occurring to the cemetery property itself, such as extreme storm damage or vandalism.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 14. - Responsibilities of the City of St. Marys.
The authority shall contract with the City of St. Marys to provide the maintenance and operations services of the cemetery in exchange for all or part of the annual investment income generated by the principal of the funds held by the authority. Annually, the amount of payment from the authority to the city shall be determined by comparing the investment income of the funds held by the authority and the records of expenses incurred by the city to operate the cemetery.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
Section 15. - [Conflicting provisions.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(H.B. 1188/Res. No. 2012-R002, Exh. A, 2-6-12)
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of Georgia Laws that are not amendatory of the Charter and are included in the Related Laws Part II.
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Year Page Section this
Related Laws
1979 3278 3
H.B.1188/
Res. No. 2012-R002       Added Art. IV, §§ 1—15
