II. - Definitions

2.1 - Definitions.
Certain words and terms are defined as follows: Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular number include the plural; and words in the plural number include the singular. The word "building" includes the word "structure"; and the words "must" and "shall" are mandatory and not discretionary. The words "should" and "may" are permissive. The terms "Planning Commission" shall mean Taliaferro County Planning Commission. "County Governing Body" means the County Commissioners of Taliaferro County, Georgia. "Roads" include streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, highways, lanes, circles, drives, freeways, viaducts, alleys, and other public ways.
Access Drive —A private road or way giving access from a public road to land abutting the right-of-way thereof; a vehicular entrance to or exit from such abutting property to a public road.
Accessory Building —A subordinate building not more than one and one-half story in height, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building on the same lot or of which it forms an integral part of the same lot.
Accessory Use —The use customarily incidental and accessory to the principal use of a building located upon the same building site as the accessory use. Accessory uses include, but are not limited to, swimming pools, detached garages, sheds, satellite dishes, and fallout shelters.
Adult Entertainment Use —Any premises or part thereof in which is provided, in pursuance of a trade, calling, business or occupation, goods or services appealing to or designed to appeal to erotic or sexual appetites or inclinations; any premises or part thereof in which is provided services of which a principal feature or characteristic is the nudity or partial nudity of any person.
Agricultural Uses —Use of land and structures for the processing of agricultural and forest products, and related operations, including dairy and milk products and by-products; chicken hatchery; sawmill or planing mill for lumber and forest products and by-products processing and production; primary point for livestock, field and forest product collection, sales, and shipping; trade in odor-producing goods of rural origin such as hides, skins, raw furs, livestock, poultry, fish, and other animals and animal products.
Aquifer —Any stratum (rock layer) or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Buffer —An area of natural vegetation or manmade construction which is intended to provide a visual and dimensional separation between dissimilar land uses. (1) Natural buffer: A visual screen created by vegetation of such density so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other throughout the year. (2) Structural buffer: A visual screen created through construction of a solid wooden fence, decorative masonry wall, earthen berm, or combination of fence or wall with an earthen berm, which may be supplemented with vegetation, so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other.
Building —A structure created to shelter any form of human activity, such as a house, barn, church, hotel, or similar structure. Building may refer to an historically related complex such as a courthouse and jail or a house and barn.
Building, Accessory —A detached building designed for a use which is clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal structure or use of the land, which shall not be more than one and one-half stories in height and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use.
Building Height —The vertical distance measured from the level of the established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building, to the highest point of the roof surface of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for a gable, hip, or gambrel roof.
Building Inspector —The person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated by Taliaferro County as the Building Inspector and/or his designated agent or agents.
Building Line —A line located at the setback between which line and any street line of a district, lot, tract, or parcel of land, no building or part of a building may be erected, altered, or maintained.
Building, Main —The principal use of the lot on which a structure is situated. In any residential district any dwelling shall be deemed to be a main building on the lot upon which it is situated.
Building Permit —A written permit issued by the Chief Building Official of Taliaferro County.
Building Line Setback —The distance between the building line and the property line in a district, lot tract, or parcel of land.
Club, Church, or Fraternal Organization —Buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, religious, or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to tender a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
Commercial Use —Any use involving in whole or in part the storage and/or display of merchandise or materials for the purpose of wholesale or retail sale; any use involving the rendering of a personal service.
Conditional Use —A use not ordinarily permitted but which may be permitted upon the imposition of conditions related to the promotion of the public health, morals or general welfare and designed to minimize the negative impact on surrounding lands. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, restrictions on land use; height, setback and other non-use requirements; physical improvements to the property and infrastructure serving the property. A conditional use must be approved in the same manner as a rezoning request prior to the issuance of a permit.
Conditional Zoning —The imposition of conditions in the granting of a rezoning application which are in addition to or different from the regulations set forth in this zoning ordinance and which are related to the promotion of the public health, safety, morals or general welfare and designed to minimize the negative impact on the surrounding lands. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, restrictions on land use; height, setback and other non-use requirements; physical improvements to the property and infrastructure serving the property.
County Health Officer —The person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated by Taliaferro County as the Environmental Health Specialist.
County Road Superintendent —The person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated by Taliaferro County as the County Road Superintendent.
Cross Drain —A device, usually constructed of reinforced concrete or consisting of concrete or corrugated aluminum pipe, whose function is to transfer or drain surface water from one side of a roadway to the other, and located beneath the surface of the roadway.
Dwelling —Any building designed or used for permanent living quarters for one or more families.
Dwelling, Single-Family —A detached residential dwelling unit other than a manufactured home, designed for and occupied by one family only, with a minimum width of no less than fourteen (14) feet, a minimum roof pitch of 2:12, and a roof surface of wood shakes, asphalt composition, wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass, or metal tiles, slate, or other approved materials.
Dwelling Unit —A building providing complete living facilities for one family.
Family —A group of one or two persons, or parents with their direct descendants and adopted children (and including the domestic employees thereof), together with not more than two persons not so related, living together in a room or rooms comprising a single housekeeping unit. Every additional group of five or less persons living in such a housekeeping unit shall be considered a separate family for the purposes of this article. Family does not include a group occupying a club, sorority, or fraternity house.
Family Care Home —A use in which domiciliary care is provided with support and supervisory personnel that provide room and board, personal care and rehabilitation services in a family environment for resident handicapped persons, who have physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities so that such person is incapable of living independently. However, handicapped shall not include: 1) the current illegal use of, or addiction to, either alcohol or a controlled substance; 2) any person whose residency may constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals or whose tendency would result in substantial physical damage to the property of others; 3) work release facilities for convicts or ex-convicts or other housing facilities serving as an alternative to incarceration; or 4) persons who are otherwise not deemed to be handicapped as that term is defined under the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C.A. § 3601 et seq.
Filling Station —The use of land and structures for service which primarily involves the retail sale of gasoline and related vehicular fuel and additives, oil and related lubricants and additives, and minor accessories, batteries, packaged supplies, tires, tubes, and the like and minor services such as lubrication, engine adjustments, minor parts adjustments, repair, replacement, polishing, tire and tube balancing, repair, and replacement, washing, waxing, and the like for individual passenger vehicles excluding steam cleaning, spray painting, engine overhaul, overnight vehicular storage, commercial parking, wrecker operation, and vehicular repairs where such repair includes metal bumping, grinding, or hammering, or other noisy operations, or removing the head of the engine.
Flea Market —Property that the owner rents, lends, or leases to persons for use as a marketplace to barter, exchange, or sell secondhand goods. Yard sales at residences are not flea markets, and craft shows shall not constitute flea markets.
Frontage —The distance for which property abuts one side of a street, road, highway, or other public way measured along the dividing line between the property and such road or highway or other public way.
Funeral Home —The use of land or structures for the preparation of the dead for burial or cremation, for the viewing of the body, and for conducting observances before burial or cremation, and including cremation and burial.
Garage —A building used for the storage or housing of motor vehicles.
Generalized Wetlands Map —Shall mean a map showing the general locations of wetlands within the jurisdiction of Taliaferro County.
Governing Body —The Chairman and County Commission of Taliaferro County.
Groundwater Recharge Area (a.k.a. Aquifer Recharge Area) —An area of the earth's surface where water infiltrated the ground, thereby replenishing the groundwater supplies within an aquifer.
Home Occupation —The use of a part of a dwelling or part of any accessory building for pursuits compatible with a domestic household and which is carried on by members of the one family residing in the dwelling house, provided that:
(a)
The use is clearly secondary to the use of the dwelling unit as a private residence;
(b)
It does not change the external character of the dwelling unit as a private residence;
(c)
It does not create or become a public nuisance with respect to noise, traffic or parking;
(d)
There are no goods, wares or merchandise offered or exposed for sale, or sold, or kept for sale in the dwelling house, and no mechanical or other equipment is used or kept except that which is customarily employed in dwellings for domestic or household purposes or for use by a dentist, drugless practitioner or physician;
(e)
It does not occupy more than twenty-five percent of the gross floor area of the dwelling; and
(f)
There are no assistants employed.
Hydric Soils —Shall mean soils that form as a result of saturated soil conditions. The Soil Conservation Service maintains a list of these soils.
Hydrophytic Vegetation —Shall mean macrophytic plants tolerant of or dependent on saturated soil conditions.
Individual Septic Tank —A general term referring to a means of sewage disposal, other than a public or community system, serving building or structures designed or used for human occupancy, congregation, or employment.
Junkyard —Any parcel of land or building for which the principal or accessory use is the abandonment, collection, demolition, dismantlement, keeping, storage, bailment, salvage or sale of used, discarded, worn out or scrapped machinery, vehicles, vehicle parts, scrap metal, chains, used pipes, waste paper, rags, appliances, enamelware, furniture, bottles, cans, rope, iron, copper or other scrap or discarded materials.
Jurisdictional Determination —Shall mean an official written statement or map signed by the US Army Corps of Engineers or, in the case of coastal marshlands, the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Jurisdictional Wetland —Shall mean a wetland area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the US Army Corps of Engineers.
Kennel —Any establishment where dogs or cats are maintained for boarding, holding, training, or similar purposes for a fee or compensation.
Land Subdivision —A parcel or tract of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a map and filed with the clerk of the superior court of Taliaferro County, Georgia, as of the date of the adoption of this ordinance.
Lane —A public thoroughfare which ordinarily affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property and which is not more than twenty feet wide.
Lot —A measured parcel or tract of land having fixed boundaries and designated on a plat or survey.
Lot, Corner —A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets, or at the intersection of a street and railway right-of-way, or a lot abutting on one or more parts of the same street, in which an interior angle of less than 135 degrees is contained, between the front and side lot lines abutting the said street or streets.
Lot Depth —The distance between front and rear lot lines. If two opposite sides of said lot are not parallel, the depth shall be deemed to be the mean distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot Line, Front —The front lot line of an interior lot separating the lot from the fronting street right-of-way. The front lot line of a corner lot shall be the lot line upon which the principle building will front.
Lot, Interior —A lot not situated as a corner lot, with road frontage on only one side of the lot.
Lot Line, Rear —The rear lot line boundary opposite and more or less parallel to the front lot line. The rear lot line of an irregular or triangular lot shall be, for the purpose of this Code, a line not less than ten feet long, lying wholly within the lot, and parallel to and farthest distance from the front lot line.
Lot Line, Side —A side lot boundary line that is not a front lot line or a rear lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from a street line is an exterior side lot line. Any other side lot line is an interior side lot line.
Lot Width —The width of the lot measured at the building line setback.
Manufactured Home —A structure with a minimum 2:12 roof pitch and roof surface of wood shakes, shingles, asphalt composition, concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles, slate, or other material as approved by the building official, and defined by and constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended, 42 USC 5401, et seq. The definition at the date of adoption of this part is as follows:
"Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or forty body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is three hundred twenty or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained herein; except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary and complies with the standards established under this title.
Manufactured Home Park —Any property on which ten or more manufactured homes are located or intended to be located for purposes of residential or recreational occupancy of a temporary, seasonal, or permanent nature. Manufactured home parks must comply with the specific requirements for such parks as delineated in Section 9.13.
Map, Official —The official zoning map of Taliaferro County, Georgia, which shows the boundaries of the various districts superimposed upon the property map and record system for Taliaferro County, Georgia.
Multifamily Dwelling —A residential building designed for or occupied by two or more families with the number of families in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
Nonconforming Use —Any lawful use, whether of a building or other structure or of a tract of land, which does not conform to the regulations of this Code or as a result of any subsequent amendment thereof.
Parking Lot —A parcel of land, or portion thereof, devoted to unenclosed parking spaces that may include partially enclosed one-story buildings, and where a charge is made for parking or storage of vehicles.
Parking Lot, Accessory —Shall mean a parcel of land used by an individual, partnership, form, or corporation in any commercial or industrial district exclusively for the parking of vehicles of its employees or customers, and for which no charge is made.
Parking Space —An area of appropriate dimensions of not less than 200 square feet, exclusive of access or maneuvering area, or ramps or columns, etc., to be used exclusively as a temporary storage space for private motor vehicles. Truck loading space shall not be included in such area. When the application of a unit of measurement for parking spaces to a particular use or structure results in a fractional space, any fraction under one-half shall be disregarded; fractions of one-half and over shall be counted as one space.
Person —Any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock association, or body politic, and includes any trustee, receiver, assigns or other similar representative thereof.
Personal Care Home —A premises which is occupied by unrelated individuals who receive care and/or supervision from property owners or persons in their employment.
Planning Commission —The Taliaferro County Planning Commission.
Pollution Susceptibility —The relative vulnerability of groundwater to pollution from chemical spills, leaching of pollutants from dump sites, animal waste from agricultural operations or pollution generated by other human activities.
Pollution Susceptibility Maps —The maps prepared by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR) that show the relative susceptibility of groundwater to pollution. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the State into areas of high, medium, and low groundwater pollution potential.
Public Use or Structure —Any land or building owned, used, or maintained by a federal, state, county, or municipal government or their agencies; accessible to, supported or shared by all members of the community.
Public Road —A road or road right-of-way which is owned or maintained by a unit of government or an authorized agency thereof.
Public Sanitary Sewerage —A sanitary system for the collection and treatment of water borne wastes, and which is operated by a local unit of government or approved for operation by a local government.
Qualified Surveyor —A person licensed by the State of Georgia to perform the duties of a land surveyor.
Registered Engineer —A person licensed by the State of Georgia to perform the duties of an engineer.
Regulated Activity —Any activity which will or which may reasonably be expected to result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the US, excepting those activities exempted in Section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Residential —A building or portion thereof containing or designed to contain space for human dwelling.
Restaurant —The use of land and structures for on-premises sales and consumption of food and beverages.
Right-of-Way Line —The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a contiguous public right-of-way for a street, road, highway or other public way.
Roadway —That portion of a road which is improved, designed, or ordinarily intended for vehicular use. Divided roads and roads with frontage or access roads have more than one roadway. On undivided roads without frontage roadways or access roads, the roadway width lies between the curb lines or between the pavement edges, whichever is appropriate.
Rooming or Boarding House —A dwelling, other than a hotel or lodging house, where meals or housing accommodations for three (3) or more persons are provided for hire.
Sign —Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numbers, phrases, sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade names, or trademarks by which anything is known, such as are used to designate an individual, a business, or a commodity or product, which are visible from any public highway and used to attract attention.
Sign, Temporary —A sign, banner, informational sign, or advertising display, or other advertising device, constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, wood, or other temporary material, with or without a structural frame, and intended for a limited period of display, including decorative displays for holidays or public demonstrations, built or intended to be displayed for a short period of time.
Significant Groundwater Recharge Areas —The areas mapped by DNR in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition). Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology (chemical nature and form of the rock), soil type and thickness, slope, density of lithologic contacts, geologic structure, presence of "karst" topography (sinkholes, caves and fissures associated with limestone and other carbonate rocks), and potentiometric surfaces.
Skirting or underpinning —Installation of acceptable material from the exterior base of the manufactured house to the ground which may or may not provide support to the house.
Story —The vertical distance of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the space between such floor and ceiling next above it, provided that a cellar shall not be considered a story. Attic or basement space is construed as one-half of one story.
Street or Road —A public thoroughfare, where public title to land extends between right-of-way lines. Whenever the sense of the law or these regulations so require, the word "street" shall include avenue, drive, circle, road, highway, or similar terms as they are generally understood.
Structure —Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Structures include, but are not limited to, the following: site built buildings, manufactured homes, signs, swimming pools, satellite dishes, fallout shelters, and other constructions greater than thirty inches in height. Excluded are fences less than eight feet in height and structures less than thirty inches in height.
Structural Alterations —Any change in the supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, floor joists, or roof joists, or in the exterior walls.
Subdivider —A person who subdivides land or causes land to be subdivided.
Subdivision —The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two or more lots, plats, sites, or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or of building development purposes other than agricultural. It includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the content, relates to the process of subdividing or to territory subdivided.
Surety Bond —An agreement in which one person accepts legal liability for another's performance of a contract or obligation.
Truck Stop —The use of land and structures for rental and servicing of vehicles and en route sales of fuel, lubricants, minor accessories, and the like primarily to vehicles of greater than ¾ ton rated capacity, but not sales of such vehicles.
Use —The purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land is designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied; the activity, occupation, business, or operation carried on, or intended to be carried on, in a building or other structure or on a tract of land.
Water supply —A water supply system which is operated by a local government unit or approved for operation by a local government, including pump and distribution lines, and other facilities appurtenant thereto, serving or designed to serve more than two (2) buildings or structures used or designed to be used for human occupancy.
Wetland —Shall mean an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and distribution sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Wetland Delineation —Shall mean the establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the US Army Corps of Engineers, or an authority designated by the Corps.
Wetlands Functions —The beneficial roles that wetlands serve, including: storage, conveyance, and attenuation of floodwater and stormwater; protection of water quality and quality and reduction of erosion; habitat for wildlife, including rare, threatened and endangered species; food chain support for a wide variety of wildlife and fisheries; educational, historical, and archaeological value protection; and scenic, aesthetic and recreational amenities.
Wetland Protection District —Shall mean all wetlands within the jurisdiction of Taliaferro County, Georgia, and shown on the generalized wetland map.
Yard —An open space on the same lot with a main building which space is open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
Yard, Front —An open space extending the full width of a lot and of a depth measured horizontally at the right angles from the front lot line to the front of the structure.
Yard, Rear —An open space extending the full width of a lot of a depth measured horizontally at right angles from the rear lot line to the rear of the structure.
Yard, Side —An open space extending along the side line of a lot between the front yard and the rear yard and of a width measured horizontally at right angles from the side lot line to the side of the structure.
