III. - Establishment of Zoning Districts

3.1 - Division into Districts.
For the purposes of this Code, Taliaferro County is divided into six (6) districts designated as follows:
•
A-1 Agricultural
•
R-1 Residential District (conventional single-family housing)
•
R-2 Residential District (conventional or manufactured single-family housing)
•
R-3 Residential District (conventional or manufactured and multi-family housing)
•
C-1 Commercial
•
M-1 Industrial
3.2 - District Boundaries.
The boundaries of each district are as shown on a map which is entitled "Official Zoning Map of Taliaferro County, Georgia" and certified by the Planning Commission. Said map and all explanatory matter thereon are hereby made a part of and incorporated into this Code. Said map shall be maintained in the County Commissioner's Office.
3.3 - Rules for Determining Boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists regarding the location of the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
1.
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the center lines of streets or highways, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines, such center lines, street lines, or highway right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
2.
Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately follow lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
3.
Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the center lines of streets, highways, or railroads, or rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the Zoning Map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be determined by using the scale shown on the Zoning Map.
4.
Where a district boundary line, as appearing on the Zoning Map, divides a lot in single ownership at the time of this enactment, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of such lot shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof.
