ARTICLE VI - PROCEDURE FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL

6-A - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Article is to establish procedures for the review and acceptance of major subdivisions. Because of the potential impact that major subdivisions can have on the resources of a community, oversight of the review process by the Planning Commission and Board of Commissioners is necessary to ensure that new development does not place an undue burden on existing community facilities, and that proposed developments contain those facilities necessary to ensure the health, safety and welfare of new residents and businesses.
6-B - PRE-APPLICATION
Prior to the review, consideration and approval of a preliminary plat by the Planning Commission, the subdivider is encouraged to schedule a pre-application conference with the Land Development Officer to discuss the proposed subdivision.
6-B-1
Pre-Application Conference
The pre-application conference is an optional step in the major subdivision approval process intended to assist the subdivider with questions he or she may have prior to conducting the extensive site planning necessary for the preparation of a preliminary plat; and, to enable the subdivider to become familiar with the regulations affecting the land to be subdivided. The subdivider may offer a simple sketch plan for comments from the Land Development Officer if desired. Recommendations received from the Land Development Officer concerning the proposed development or the sketch plan does not authorize the developer to begin the proposed construction of improvements.
6-B-2
Sketch Plan
Sketch plans submitted at the direction of the Land Development Officer in order to address issues identified in Subsection 6-B-3 and Subsection 7-D-5 of this Article shall be required to meet the specifications listed in Appendix A, Table 5. All other sketch plans submitted at the discretion of the subdivider should address the issues listed in Appendix A, Table 5.
6-B-3
Phased Development
The Land Development Officer may require a sketch plan for the development of the balance of the tract that is not being subdivided by the proposed development.
6-B-4
Recommendations of the Land Development Officer
The recommendations offered by the Land Development Officer as a result of sketch plan review are advisory. Such applicable sketch plans shall be retained by the Land Development Officer and the Planning Commission may require that subsequent preliminary plats substantially conform to the original sketch plan.
In no case shall the recommendations made during the pre-application review of a sketch plan supersede any of the provisions of this Ordinance.
6-C - PRELIMINARY PLAT
6-C-1
Application
a.
Required Application Materials
A complete application for approval of a preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Land Development Officer together with the appropriate fee as determined by the Board of Commissioners. All applications for preliminary plat approval shall conform to the specifications listed in Appendix A, Tables 4 and 5.
b.
Additional Materials
Copies of the preliminary plat in excess of those required in Appendix A, Table 4, and other supplemental information may be requested by the Planning Commission. The above-mentioned copies shall be distributed to any other person or agency as deemed necessary by the Planning Commission. The person or agency to which a copy of the preliminary plat is directed shall indicate any desired changes or comments on the plat. Such comments shall be considered by the Planning Commission prior to formal approval of the preliminary plat.
6-C-2
Public Hearing
After acceptance by the Land Development Officer of a complete application for preliminary plat approval including all accompanying material, the Planning Commission shall call a public hearing for the next scheduled meeting of the Commission to be held at least twenty-eight (28) days after the date of the application.
6-C-3
Public Notice
Public notice of the hearing on the application for preliminary plat approval shall be given at least fifteen (15), but not more than forty five (45) days prior to the scheduled public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be made in accordance with established County procedures.
6-C-4
Preliminary Plat Approval
a.
Action of the Planning Commission
The Planning Commission shall approve, disapprove or approve with modification, the preliminary plat within twenty-eight (28) days after the date it is presented at the public hearing. If approved, the Planning Commission shall indicate so in writing, stating the conditions of such approval, if any, or if disapproved, the Planning Commission shall express in writing its disapproval and its reasons therefore.
Failure of the Planning Commission to act within twenty-eight (28) days after formal submission of the preliminary plat and the public hearing is held, shall be deemed to constitute approval, and certificate to that effect shall be issued by the Planning Commission on demand; provided, however, that the subdivider may waive this requirement and consent in writing to the extension of such period.
b.
Certification of Plat Approval
Approval of the preliminary plat shall be noted on the plat and certified by the Planning Commission. Also noted shall be the date on which the Planning Commission granted approval and the date of written notification to the subdivider or subdivider's authorized agent.
c.
Effect of Plat Approval
Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final plat. Preliminary plat approval shall constitute approval of the proposed widths and alignments of streets and the dimensions and shapes of lots subject to the final approval of the Health Department, if applicable.
Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Commission, the subdivider may proceed to comply with the other requirements of these regulations and the preparation of the final subdivision plat.
6-C-5
Effective Period of Preliminary Plat Approval
The approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one (1) year from the date that the preliminary plat is approved by the Planning Commission, at the end of which time the applicant must have submitted a final plat for approval. If a final plat is not submitted within the one (1) year period, the preliminary plat approval shall be null and void, and the applicant shall be required to submit a new preliminary plat for review.
6-C-6
Conformance to Zoning and Subdivision Regulations
Every preliminary plat shall conform to existing zoning and other regulations applicable at the time that the proposed preliminary plat is submitted for approval unless official action has been taken toward amending the applicable regulations and the applicant has reason to know of that action.
6-D - CONSTRUCTION PLANS
6-D-1
Application
Upon approval of a preliminary plat, the subdivider may apply for construction plan approval. The construction plan approval process is administrative. Applications for construction plan approval shall be made in accordance with requirements shown in Appendix A Tables 4 and 5. No application for construction plans shall be accepted for processing nor approved by the Land Development Officer until a preliminary plat has been approved by the Planning Commission and the proposed construction plans are found by the Land Development Officer to be in substantial conformity with said approval and any conditions of such approval. Upon acceptance by the Land Development Officer of an application for construction plan approval, said plans shall be forwarded to the County Engineer for review.
6-D-2
Decision Criteria
In determining the basis for approval or denial of accepted construction plans, the County Engineer and the Land Development Officer shall consider the requirements of this Ordinance or any other applicable local regulations, the consistency of the construction plans and application to meet the requirements of preliminary plat approval specified by the Planning Commission.
6-D-3
Certificate of Approval
All copies of the construction plans shall be noted by inscription on the plat noting such approval by the Land Development Officer and the County Engineer. Construction plan approval shall expire and be null and void after a period of one (1) year, unless activity toward improvements on the land has been initiated, or unless the Land Development Officer approves an extension.
6-E - FINAL PLAT
6-E-1 Application
a.
Required Application Materials
After approval of the preliminary plat and construction plans, a complete application for the approval of a final plat shall be submitted to the Land Development Officer with the appropriate fee as determined by the Board of Commissioners. All applications for final plat approval shall conform to the specifications listed in Appendix A, Tables 4 and 5.
b.
Statements of Certification
Final plats submitted for approval of the Planning Commission and Board of Commissioners shall include the statements of certification listed in Appendix B Section 2.
6-E-2
Final Plat Approval
a.
Administrative Review
The Land Development Officer shall examine the final plat to determine if it meets all requirements of this Ordinance, conforms to the approved preliminary plat, and conforms to construction plans approved by the County Engineer.
If the Land Development Officer determines that the submitted final plat conforms to the provisions of this Ordinance, he or she shall schedule the item for the next available regular meeting of the Planning Commission.
b.
Action of the Planning Commission
The Planning Commission shall approve, disapprove or approve with modification, the final plat. If approved, the Planning Commission shall indicate so in writing, stating the conditions of such approval, if any, or if disapproved, the Planning Commission shall express in writing its disapproval and its reasons therefore.
If the Planning Commission does not act within forty five (45) days of the official submission of the final plat to the Planning Commission the final plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued by the Planning Commission on demand.
c.
Action of the Board of Commissioners
Final plats approved by the Planning Commission shall then be considered by the Board of Commissioners at the next available regularly scheduled meeting.
The Board of Commissioners shall approve, disapprove or approve with modification, the final plat. If approved, the Board of Commissioners shall indicate so in writing, stating the conditions of such approval, if any, or if disapproved, the Board of Commissioners shall express in writing its disapproval and its reasons therefore.
If the Board of Commission does not act within forty five (45) days of the official submission of the final plat to the Board of Commissioners the final plat shall be considered approved and a certificate of approval shall be issued by the Board of Commissioners on demand.
6-E-3
Effect of Approval and Recording
Approval of the final plat and subsequent filing of such plat in the office of the Taliaferro County Clerk of Courts shall not be deemed an acceptance of any offer to dedicate streets and other public areas shown on the plat.
6-E-4
Distribution
As previously stated, five prints shall be submitted to the Planning Commission with other required materials comprising the final plat. The sheet size shall not exceed 18 by 24 inches nor be less than 8 1/2 by 11 inches. If the complete plat cannot be shown on one sheet, it may be shown on more than one sheet with an index map on a separate sheet of the same size. After approval, two prints shall be returned to the owner or proprietor of the subdivision for recordation in the precise form as approved. Three prints with recording information included thereon, shall be retained and distributed as follows:
1.
Tax Assessor, one (1) print
2.
Clerk of Superior Court, one (1) print
3.
Land Development Officer, one (1) print
6-F - Acceptance of Public Improvements
6-F-1
Dedications of Streets and Public Land
Installation of streets and other improvements are required to have been completed prior to recordation of the final plat. Any subdivider wishing to dedicate streets or rights of way shall make application to the Taliaferro County Board of Commissioners. All applications for the counties acceptance of public streets and rights of way shall be accompanied by an eighteen (18) month maintenance agreement, and deed(s) of dedication for all streets, land, and, easements, conveying the same to the County. The form of these documents shall be approved by the County Attorney. These documents shall be fully executed by the subdivider with the dates left blank, to be filled in by the Board of Commissioners with the date of acceptance of the deeds of dedication. Acceptance of streets and other improvements shall be accomplished by executing the deeds of dedication.
a.
Certificate of Approval
When a maintenance agreement is required as established in this Article, the Planning Commission shall endorse said agreement after the agreement has been approved.
b.
Costs of Improvement
All required improvements shall be made by the subdivider, at his expense, without reimbursement by the local government.
6-G - INSPECTIONS OF IMPROVEMENTS
6-G-1
General Procedure and Fees
The Planning Commission shall provide for inspection of required improvements during the maintenance agreement period. The applicant shall pay to the County an inspection fee based on the estimated cost of inspection. The subdivision plat shall not be signed by the Planning Commission unless the inspection fee has been paid at the time of application. These fees shall be due and payable upon demand of the County. If the County Engineer finds upon inspection that any one (1) or more of the required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the County's construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be responsible for properly completing the improvements.
