ARTICLE IV - CLASSIFICATION OF SUBDIVISIONS

4-A - MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
A major subdivision is defined as the division of a parcel of land into five (5) or more lots for sale or lease. The parent parcel counts as one of the subdivided lots for the purpose of determining the subdivision's classification. Any subdivision that requires the construction of new roads, streets, public water or sewer facilities shall also be considered a major subdivision. All major subdivisions must be approved by the Planning Commission, and the Board of Commissioners.
4-B - MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
A minor subdivision is defined as the division of a parcel of land into less than five (5) lots for sale or lease. The parent parcel counts as one (1) of the subdivided lots for determining the subdivision's classification. All minor subdivisions may be approved administratively by the Land Development Officer.
4-B-1
Lot Division
The subdivision of land shall be classified as a lot division if an existing lot in a previously recorded subdivision is subdivided into not more than five (5) tracts, parcels or lots, and there are no public improvements required
Figure 4
4-B-2
Lot Combination
a.
An existing lot line forming the boundary between two (2) conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision or a lot line between lots or parcels that have merged to form one (1) building lot may be removed or eliminated through a final plat revision process which conforms to the requirements of this Ordinance. See Figure 4.
b.
In cases where no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and summary plat consistent with the provisions of Article 5 of this Ordinance depicting all lots involved in the lot combination shall be required to be approved by the Land Development Officer and recorded.
c.
A plat illustrating a lot combination shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision, if applicable, and shall indicate thereon that the re-plat is for the purpose of removing the lot lines between specific lots.
4-B-3
Boundary Line Adjustments
a.
One (1) or more existing lot lines forming boundaries between conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision, or one (1) or more lot lines between abutting lots or parcels may be adjusted through a final plat revision process that requires the approval of the Land Development Officer and recording of a plat meeting the specifications of a final plat. See Figure 5.
Figure 5
b.
In the case no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat of all lots involved in the boundary line adjustment shall be required to be approved by the Land Development Officer and recorded.
c.
The plat showing said boundary line adjustment shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision and shall include thereon that the replat is for the purpose of adjusting the lot lines between specific lots.
4-B-4
Tract Certification
A record plat is defined as a plat that is used for the purpose of indicating ownership of existing recorded lots and represents a rerecording of specific properties by a new survey. It is intended to allow individual properties under one (1) ownership to be rerecorded in the Clerk of the Superior Courts office without requiring the owner to conform to the strict definition of a subdivision. A record plat may be recorded in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court without any prior approval of the Planning Commission provided such record plat has:
1.
A statement under oath from the property owner that states "This plat is not a subdivision as defined in the Taliaferro County Subdivisions Regulations, Article 2, Definitions."
2.
A certification from a registered land surveyor thereon which states, "This plat is not a subdivision as defined in the Taliaferro County Subdivisions Regulations, Article 2, Definitions."
4-C - EXEMPTED SUBDIVISIONS
The following types of land subdivisions, transfers, and sales are specifically exempted from the plat approval requirements of this Ordinance; provided, however, that such exemptions shall not negate the improvement requirements of Articles VII and VIII of this Ordinance.
1.
The creation and sale of cemetery plots;
2.
The sale of lots consistent with previously approved and recorded plats or deeds;
3.
The creation of leaseholds for space within a multiple-occupancy building or the division of property into leaseholds for commercial, industrial, or institutional use;
4.
The creation of leaseholds for the agricultural use of property where the use does not involve the construction of a building to be used as a residence or for other purposes not directly related to agricultural use of the land or crops or livestock raised thereon; and,
5.
Any division of land to heirs through a judicial estate proceeding, or any division of land pursuant to a judicial partition, or any division of land occurring from the foreclosure of a deed of trust; provided, however, that such exemption shall not require the County to issue permits if the resulting lots or parcels fail to meet any applicable regulations of the local jurisdiction concerning lot size, lot width, and other dimensional requirements.
