XI. - Enforcement and Penalties

11.1 - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the County Commission of Taliaferro County to enforce the provisions of this Code within the corporate limits of the County in the manner and from and with the powers provided in the laws of the State and the Charter and Ordinances of the County. The Board of Commissioners of Taliaferro County shall appoint an appropriate enforcement authority.
11.2 - Permit Issuance.
All commissions, boards, departments, officials, and public employees of Taliaferro County which are vested with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of this Code and shall issue no permit or license for any use, building, or purpose if the same would be in conflict with the provisions of this Code. Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this Code shall be null and void.
11.3 - Violations.
The erection, construction, alteration, addition, conversion, moving, or maintenance of any building or structure and the use of any land or building which is continued, operated, or maintained, contrary to any provisions of this Code is hereby declared to be a violation of this Code and unlawful. The County Attorney shall immediately, upon any such violation having been called to his attention, institute injunction, abatement, or any other appropriate action to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove violation. Such action may also be instituted by any property owner who may be damaged by any violation of this Code. The remedy provided for herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law. The Building Inspector shall identify actions not in conformance with this Code; the County Clerk shall notify the property owner of the violation via certified mail. If the violation is not corrected within thirty days from the notification, a penalty shall be assessed.
11.4 - Penalties.
Any person or corporation whether as principal, agent, employee, or otherwise who violates any provision of this Code shall be guilty of an offense and may, upon conviction, be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed $500 and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 60 days.
11.5 - Interpretation.
Taliaferro County Board of Commissioners shall provide final interpretation for all provisions of this Code.
