VI. - Commercial Districts

6.1 - Intent.
The Commercial zones shall protect and promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Taliaferro County by providing sufficient space for commercial and retail uses and related activities, and by keeping such activities a sufficient distance away from residential areas of County in order to protect residential areas against traffic, noise, and other hazards created by such commercial and retail uses.
6.2 - Table of Standards.
EXPAND
C-1
Minimum Lot Size (sq. ft) 43,560
Minimum Lot Width (ft) 100
Front Yard Setback (ft) 50
Rear Yard Setback (ft) 50
Side Yard Setback (ft) 20
Road Frontage Planted Buffer Width (ft) 5
  6.3 - C-1 Commercial District.
1.
Permitted Uses:
a.
Residential uses shall be permitted above the first floor in any C-1 district;
b.
Professional uses which may occupy an entire building or a group of buildings. These professional uses include, but are not limited to, physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, animal hospitals, and insurance agents;
c.
Clubs, lodges, fraternal associations, or other non-profit uses;
d.
Signs: One exterior non-illuminated sign per lot pertaining only to a use conducted within the building shall be permitted in the C-1 zone. A sign not located flat against the building shall be less than three square feet in area and less than six feet in height. Such sign shall not be located within twenty feet of an R zone nor shall it be located within 25 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of intersecting streets;
e.
Adult Entertainment uses, subject to restrictions in Section 9.11;
f.
Retail uses, such as clothing, hardware, or other establishment where a customer must visit the site to obtain goods;
g.
Drive-in retail uses where a customer is waited upon in an off-street parking area, or where customer conducts business directly from a vehicle with an agent in the building;
h.
Food and beverage sales establishments, such as restaurants, bakeries, confectionery stores, etc.;
i.
Service uses, including, but not limited to, appliance repair, beauty/barber shop, tailor, or gasoline filling station;
j.
Truck stops;
k.
Public or private schools;
l.
Public uses or structures;
m.
Public and private parks and open space, including commercial facilities;
n.
Churches or other places of public assembly;
o.
Accessory Buildings may be constructed in the C-1 Zone, subject to the restrictions outlined in Section 9.8;
p.
Movie theaters;
q.
Liquor Store, subject to restrictions in Section 9.11.
2.
Lot Size and Setback Requirements:
a.
Lot Size: All lots in a C-1 Zone shall have a minimum width of 100 feet and a minimum area of 43,560 square feet (1 acre). Irregularly shaped lots shall measure a minimum of one hundred feet in width along the building setback line;
b.
Setback Requirements: No building or structure in a C-1 Zone may be located closer than 50 feet to a front or rear lot line and 20 feet to a side lot line. Where a commercial structure shares a common firewall with an adjacent commercial structure, the side yard setback may be waived. Where a commercial lot abuts a residential lot, side yard setbacks shall be strictly enforced. Accessory uses shall have a setback of not less than ten feet from a side or rear lot line, and shall be no closer than 20 feet to the principle structure on the lot;
c.
Landscaping Requirement: In the C-1 zone, a planted buffer strip shall be placed along all road frontages. The buffer strip shall be installed by the owner of the property, and shall contain grass or other ground covering, and shall be a minimum of five (5) feet in width. The property owner shall maintain such buffer strip with appropriate watering and debris, tall grass, weed, and rubbish removal. No buildings, structures, storage of materials, or parking shall be permitted in the buffer area. Trees and/or shrubs may be used in the buffer area where appropriate if branches are kept to a height so as not to obstruct or impair traffic or vision from a roadway.
