X. - Building Permit and Site Plan

10.1 - Building Permit Required.
It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or the construction of any building or structure, including accessory structures, or to commence the moving, alteration, or repair of any structure, including accessory structures, until the proper authority has issued for such work a building permit containing a statement that the plans, specifications and intended use of such structure in all respects conform with the provisions of this Code. For the purpose of this section, repair shall be deemed to mean any repair that does not alter the existing structure. If said repair does not alter the existing structure, no building permit will be required. The building permit required is to be administered according to guidelines stated in the Standard Building Code.
10.2 - Issuance.
The Building Permit shall be issued by the County Clerk only after it has received the approval of the Building Inspector and the Planning Commission.
10.3 - Exceptions to Building Permit.
Exempted from the building permit requirement shall be non-structural changes or applications to modify single-family dwellings or accessory buildings where such modifications will not have a total cost exceeding $500 in materials.
10.4 - Application and Site Plan.
Before a building permit may be issued, the plans and intended use shall indicate conformity in all aspects to the provisions of this Code. Each application for a building permit shall be submitted with a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the lot; accurate dimensions of the lot; front, side, and rear yards; building footprint; off-street parking area; any required landscaping; locations, size, setback lines, and uses of any other building not on the lot but within 50 feet of the lot; lighting plan; the number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate (if residential); signature of County Health Department official approving the proposed location of the septic tank and field lines, provided public sewerage is not available; and any other information deemed necessary by the Planning Commission.
If the application and site plan conforms with the provisions of this Code, the County building codes, and other appropriate ordinances, the permit shall be issued upon payment of the required fee. If the application and site plan do not comply, the Planning Commission shall deny the building permit, stating the cause of such denial in writing.
10.5 - Expiration of Building Permit.
If no substantial progress on construction has been made within six months beginning with the date the permit is issued, the permit becomes invalid. The building inspector may renew the permit. A renewal fee is required to be paid by the applicant before the permit is renewed.
10.6 - Conditional Use Permit.
A building permit for a conditional use shall not be approved until such conditional use has been approved by the Planning Commission.
10.7 - Certificate of Occupancy.
A Certificate of Occupancy issued by the Building Inspector shall be required in advance of any occupancy or use of the following:
1.
Any building hereafter erected or enlarged;
2.
Any change in use of an existing building to a different use;
3.
Any vacant land except for the raising of crops;
4.
Any change in non-conforming use.
No certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless the lot or building or structure complies with all the provisions of this Code. A record of all Certificates of Occupancy shall be kept on file in the County Office and a copy shall be furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved. If the Certificate of Occupancy is not granted upon request, the Planning Commission shall state in writing the reason the certificate was not granted.
