ARTICLE V. - PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Authority of counties and municipalities to impose excise tax on lodging and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51.

Sec. 12-175. - License fee.
There is hereby levied upon any person or legal entity operating a public accommodation facility, such as a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin or any other place in which rooms, lodging or accommodations are regularly furnished for rental or use value, an annual license fee in the amount provided in the city fee schedule for each separate public accommodations facility operated and maintained within the city.
(Code 1999, § 62-111; Ord. of 2-10-1987, § 1)
Sec. 12-176. - Excise tax.
(a)
Levied; rate. There is hereby levied upon any person or legal entity operating a public accommodations facility, such as a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for rental or use value, an excise tax equal to five percent of the charge to the public for the accommodations or furnishings, exclusive of state sales and use taxes. The proceeds of this tax will be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3).
(b)
Limit on tax. No tax shall be levied hereby upon the charges for any rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished for a period of more than ten consecutive days, nor for the use of meeting rooms, nor shall the aggregate of city and state taxes levied upon the charges for any rooms, lodgings or accommodations, exceed eight percent of the charge to the public for such furnishings.
(c)
Tax in addition to license fee. The tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fee imposed under this article.
(Code 1999, § 62-112; Ord. of 2-10-1987, § 3; Ord. of 8-23-2007)
State Law reference— Authority of counties and municipalities to impose excise tax on lodging and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51.
Sec. 12-177. - Records; filing of returns; payment.
(a)
Return due date. Each person or legal entity liable for the tax provided in this article shall, on or before the 20th day of each month, transmit returns and tax to the city or its designated agent showing the gross rental charges from all rentals subject to this tax during the preceding calendar month. The city, upon application, may permit a return to be filed on a quarterly basis if found advisable by the city. The returns required by this section shall be made upon forms prescribed, prepared and furnished by the city.
(b)
Due date extension. The city for good cause may extend the time for making any returns under provisions of this article for not more than 30 days.
(c)
Estimated taxes. If any person or legal entity subject to this tax fails to make a report and pay the tax as provided by this article or makes a grossly incorrect report or a report that is false or fraudulent, the city shall make an estimate for the taxable period of charges for use of accommodations subject to this article. Based upon this estimate, the city shall assess and collect tax, interest and penalty, as accrued, on the basis of the assessments. The city's assessment shall be considered prima facie correct, and the burden to show the contrary shall rest upon the person or legal entity subject to the tax.
(d)
Recordkeeping. Each person or legal entity subject to this tax shall keep and preserve:
(1)
Suitable records of the charges for accommodations taxable under this article.
(2)
Other books of account which are necessary to determine the amount of tax due.
(3)
Other information as required by the city.
(4)
For a period of three years, all invoices and other records of charges subject to this article.
(5)
All books, invoices and other records required to be kept by this section shall be open to examination at all reasonable hours to the city or any of its duly authorized agents.
(Code 1999, § 62-113; Ord. of 2-10-1987, § 3)
Sec. 12-178. - Collection.
Persons and legal entities operating public accommodations facilities subject to this article are hereby authorized to collect the tax provided for on behalf of the city and transmit the same to the city. Such persons or legal entities collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if and provided such amount is not delinquent at time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from state tax under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-52.
(Code 1999, § 62-114; Ord. of 2-10-1987, § 4)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-52.
Sec. 12-179. - False information.
It is hereby declared to be a violation of this article for any person knowingly to give false or incomplete information on any report required to be filed by this article.
(Ord. of 2-10-1987, § 5)
Sec. 12-180. - Enforcement and penalties.
(a)
Administrative penalty for failure to file return or pay taxes due. When any person or legal entity subject to this tax fails to make any return or pay the full amount of the tax required by this article, there shall be imposed, in addition to other penalties provided by law, a specific penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, if the failure is for not more than 30 days, and an additional five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, for each additional 30 days or fraction of 30 days during which the failure continues. The penalty for any single violation shall not exceed 25 percent or $25.00 in the aggregate, whichever is greater. If the failure is due to providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the city in affidavit form attached to the return and remittance is made within ten days of due date, the return may be accepted exclusive of penalties and interest.
(b)
Administrative penalty for filing false or fraudulent return. In the case of a false or fraudulent return or the failure to file a return, where willful intent exists to defraud the city of any tax due under this article, a specific penalty of 50 percent of the tax due shall be assessed. In addition to the penalties called for in this section, the amount of tax due shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month on the outstanding balance.
(c)
Additional penalty for code violation. In addition to all other penalties provided herein, and unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, any person who shall conduct business within the municipal corporate limits without having obtained a license therefor as required by this article, or who shall violate any other provision of this article, shall, upon conviction, be punished according to section 1-13.
(d)
Enforcement by execution. The tax levied by this article may be enforced by execution in the same manner as other taxes of the city.
(e)
Enforcement by injunction. The mayor and council, in their sole discretion, may authorize the city attorney to seek an injunction against the operation of a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin or any other place in which rooms, lodging, or accommodations are regularly furnished for rental or use value against any person conducting business within the city limits without a public accommodations license or if such a person continues to do business after such license is revoked.
(f)
Denial of license issuance. The city shall be authorized to refuse to issue a public accommodations license to any person who shall violate any provision of this article or who, at the time the application for such license, shall be in arrears and the payment of the hotel and motel excise tax required to be paid under this article.
(g)
Revocation of license. Any person who shall fail to pay the public accommodations tax for a period of more than 90 days after its due date shall be subject to have its public accommodations license or its city business license revoked. Any person who fails to pay such tax for a period of 90 days from its due date shall be cited to show cause before the municipal court of the city why its public accommodations license or city business license should not be revoked, and such citation shall require that such person show cause at the next session of the municipal court of the city why such license should not be revoked for nonpayment of the public accommodations tax.
(Code 1999, § 62-116; Ord. of 2-10-1987, § 4)
Sec. 12-181. - Effect of levied license fees and taxes on other ordinances.
The license fees and taxes levied on public accommodations facilities in this article shall be in lieu of all other business or occupation licenses or taxes levied on such businesses.
(Code 1999, § 62-117; Ord. of 2-10-1987, § 7)
Secs. 12-182—12-200. - Reserved.
