ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND DEPARTMENTS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— General authority of municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-1 et seq., 36-35-1 et seq.; liability of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; authority to provide for, regulate, etc., officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; liability of municipality for acts of officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-3; personal liability of municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; local government officers and employees not subject to liability for torts involving use of government vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-92-3; fixing of salaries of municipal employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; training of members of municipal governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-45-04; local referenda for abolishing local offices or shortening or lengthening term, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-11; authority to provide compensation and employee benefits to municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.

Sec. 2-172. - Authority to organize and reorganize city administrative structure.
The mayor and council may by ordinance establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, provided that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment, and transfer or change the functions and duties of various offices, positions of employment, and department and agencies of the city.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to establish municipal offices, agencies, and employments, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(1); authority to define, regulate, and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation, and tenure of municipal officers, agents, and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(2).
Sec. 2-173. - Adoption of personnel policies.
(a)
The mayor and council has adopted the City of Clayton Personnel Policy and Procedure Manual that provides rules, regulations, and policies consistent with the city's Charter concerning the method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment; the administration of a position classification and pay plan, and methods of promotion and transfer within the classification plan; hours of work, vacation, sick leave and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and rules governing layoffs or similar reductions in force; such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and such other personnel policies, regulations, provisions, or notices as were and may be necessary to provide for the adequate and systematic handling of personnel matters. A copy of the manual is available for inspection in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
The provisions of this article shall be in addition to regulations provided in the adopted personnel manual. In the event of conflict between this chapter and the adopted manual, the more stringent provision shall prevail.
(c)
Nothing in this Code or in the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any ordinance or resolution adopting, establishing or amending any job classification and compensation plan for the city employees or any other personnel rule, regulations or policy, which has been adopted by the city council.
(Code 1999, § 2-1)
Sec. 2-174. - Responsibility of department heads.
Every department head is immediately responsible to the city manager for the effective administration of his respective department. Each department head shall be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his department or agency, subject to the direction and supervision of the mayor. Each such department head shall:
(1)
Be immediately responsible to the city manager for the effective administration of his department and all activities assigned thereto;
(2)
Keep informed as to the latest practices in his particular field and inaugurate, with the approval of the city manager, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the service and to the public;
(3)
Submit annual reports of the activities of his department to the city manager;
(4)
Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of departmental activities and to form a basis for the periodic reports to the city manager;
(5)
Have power, when authorized by the city manager, to appoint and remove, subject to personnel regulations, all subordinates under him; and
(6)
Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all city property and equipment used in his department.
Sec. 2-175. - Intradepartmental cooperation.
Each department shall cooperate with every other department and shall furnish, upon the direction of the city manager, any other department such service, labor, and materials as may be requisitioned by the head of each department, as its own facilities permit.
Secs. 2-176—2-203. - Reserved.
