ARTICLE X. - MOBILE FOOD VENDORS

Sec. 12-431. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commissary shall mean an approved catering establishment, restaurant, or other approved place in which food, containers or supplies are kept, handled, prepared, packaged or stored.
Food truck vendor shall mean any retail food establishment that reports to and operates from a commissary and is readily moveable, is a motorized wheeled vehicle, or a towed wheeled vehicle designed and equipped to serve food. A food truck vendor shall include ice cream trucks and pushcarts.
Ice cream truck shall mean a motor vehicle in which ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets, or other frozen desserts of any kind are carried for the purpose of retail sale on the streets of the city.
Pushcart shall mean a non-self-propelled vehicle limited to serving commissary prepared or prepackaged food and non-potentially hazardous food, unless the equipment is commercially designed and approved to handle food preparation and service. Pushcarts shall not be required to comply with mobile vehicular safety requirements.
( Ord. of 2-16-2021 )
Sec. 12-432. - License required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or offer for sale, food of any type from a commissary, food truck, without a license first having been granted under this section, except for city-sponsored events.
(b)
An application for a license or a permit hereunder shall be submitted to the city clerk or his or her designee setting forth all information required hereunder and in compliance with this article. The city clerk or his or her designee shall develop a form of application for the purpose of compliance with this article.
(c)
The following information shall be provided with each application for a food truck vendor permit:
(1)
Name of the food truck vendor;
(2)
Make, model, and license plate number of vending unit;
(3)
Owner's contact information;
(4)
Operator's contact information;
(5)
Type of vendor (street vending unit or sidewalk vending unit);
(6)
Copy of approved permit from the Rabun County Health Department;
(7)
List of operating locations and times;
(8)
Signatures from property owners indicating consent for the use of their property;
(9)
Signature of applicant indicating agreement to the listed requirements.
( Ord. of 2-16-2021 )
Sec. 12-433. - Prohibited conduct and requirements.
(a)
Except for ice cream trucks, no food truck vendor shall conduct business or operate in the public right-of-way.
(b)
A food truck vendor shall not operate on any private property without the prior consent of the owner.
(c)
A food truck vendor shall maintain a $1,000,000.00 liability insurance policy. Proof of current liability insurance, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in Georgia, protecting the food truck vendor, the public and the city from all claims for damage to property and bodily injury, including death, which may arise from operation under or in connection with the permit. Such insurance shall name the city as an additional insured and shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be canceled prior to the expiration date without 30 days' advanced written notice to the city.
(d)
Except for ice cream trucks, a food truck vendor shall not make sounds or announcements to call attention to the food truck either while traveling on the public rights-of-way or when stationary. At all times said food truck vendor shall be in compliance with the City of Clayton noise ordinance.
(e)
The license under which the food truck vendor is operating must be firmly attached and visible on the mobile food truck vendor at all times.
(f)
Any driver of a food truck vendor motorized vehicle must possess a valid Georgia driver's license.
(g)
Except for ice cream trucks, food truck vendors are allowed only in the downtown-central business district.
(h)
Food truck vendors shall not be located within 15 feet of any street intersection or pedestrian crosswalk or ten feet of any driveway.
(i)
No sale or offer for sale shall be made by any food truck vendor between 9:00 p.m. and 6:30 a.m. unless such sale is in conjunction with a city approved special event or film production permit.
(j)
Vending structures shall not be left unattended or stored at any time on the open vending site when vending is not taking place or during restricted hours of operation.
(m)
No sale or offer for sale of ice cream, frozen milk, frozen dairy or ice confection products shall be made from an ice cream truck or food truck vendor unless each side of the vehicle is marked, in letter and numbers at least three inches in height, with the name and address of the food truck vendor licensee.
(n)
The food truck vendor shall comply with all state, federal and local health and safety regulations and requirements and shall obtain and maintain any and all licenses required by any other health organization or governmental organization having jurisdiction over this subject matter.
(o)
The following safety regulations shall apply to any and all vehicles operating under this article or used for mobile retail food establishments:
(1)
Every vehicle shall be equipped with a reverse gear signal alarm with a sound distinguishable from the surrounding noise level.
(2)
Every vehicle shall be equipped with two rear-vision mirrors, one at each side, firmly attached to the outside of the motor vehicle, and so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the highway to the rear, along both sides of the vehicle.
(p)
The food truck vendor may sell food and non-alcoholic beverage items only.
( Ord. of 2-16-2021 )
Sec. 12-434. - Indemnity.
As part of the permitting process set forth herein, any person or entity receiving a permit set forth herein shall execute an indemnity agreement indemnifying and releasing the City of Clayton, its agents, employees and elected officials from any and all liability against any and all claims, actions and suits of any type whatsoever.
( Ord. of 2-16-2021 )
Sec. 12-435. - Revocation and suspension.
The city shall have the right to revoke or suspend any license granted hereunder.
( Ord. of 2-16-2021 )
Sec. 12-436. - Fee.
There shall be two categories of license under this article:
(1)
An individual license; and
(2)
A special event license for short events hosting one or more food trucks.
An individual license may be obtained on a single use, monthly, or annual basis.
EXPAND
The license fee shall be: $50.00 for a single day
$150.00 for a one-month period
$1,000.00 for a 12-month period
  A special event license may be obtained for a 72-hour period and shall be obtained the event organizer.
EXPAND
The license fee shall be: $450.00 for an event with 1—5 food trucks
$600.00 for an event with 6—10 food tucks
$1,000.00 for an event with more than 10 food trucks
  Charitable events: No fee shall be required when the food truck is functioning as part of a charitable event or where over 75 percent of the proceeds are being donated to a charity in Rabun County. A permit is still required for such food trucks.
( Ord. of 2-16-2021 )
Sec. 12-437. - Violation of this article.
Except when defined in this article requiring an appearance before city council, penalty(s) for violation of this article shall be at the discretion of the municipal judge who possess the authority to fix punishment in accordance with the City Charter, the City Charter, ordinances and state law or by a court of competent jurisdiction.
( Ord. of 2-16-2021 )
