DIVISION 9. - CBD, CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

Sec. 46-291. - Purpose and intent.
(a)
The intent of the CBD central business district is to establish and maintain a compact area containing a mixture of retail, service, government and other uses where, due to the close proximity of buildings and uses, pedestrian shopping is encouraged in favor of vehicle trips being made from one destination to another. While some commercial uses targeted at the highway traveler may be permitted to exist in the central business district, the intent is that automotive service establishments and other highway business-oriented uses be excluded, due to their encouragement of automobile rather than pedestrian travel.
(b)
The CBD district is unique in that the existing development pattern consists of buildings covering very large percentages of the lot, little if any building setbacks on front, side and rear property lines, and a lack of off-street parking sufficient to meet the requirements of this chapter. This district therefore provides for less restrictive bulk, height, dimensional and parking requirements than do other commercial districts.
(c)
The CBD district is appropriate only in the existing or adjacent downtown area with the above mentioned development characteristics.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1501)
Sec. 46-292. - Permitted uses.
In CBD central business districts, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Any use permitted in the NS neighborhood shopping district but not subject to any specified square footage limitations.
(2)
Accessory uses and structures normally incidental to permitted principal uses.
(3)
Bus stations and taxicab stands.
(4)
Convalescent homes, nursing homes, group homes, rehabilitation centers, sanitariums and similar institutionalized residential facilities involving professional care and treatment.
(5)
Commercial recreation facilities, enclosed.
(6)
Hospitals and clinics.
(7)
Manufacturing and fabrication establishments, enclosed, which occupy no more than 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.
(8)
Services, lodging, including bed and breakfast inns and hotels, but specifically excluding motels, motor hotels, and tourist courts.
(9)
Temporary or seasonal uses approved by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1502)
Sec. 46-293. - Conditional uses.
In CBD central business districts, unenclosed commercial recreational facilities and open air business uses are authorized as conditional uses.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1503)
Sec. 46-294. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
Area, height, density and placement requirements shall be in accordance with sections 46-30 and 46-31.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1504)
Secs. 46-295—46-321. - Reserved.
