ARTICLE VIII. - ORGANIZATIONS

Sec. 4-262. - Certain organizations exempt from food establishment requirements.
Veterans' organizations shall not be required to operate a food establishment serving prepared food while operating within a structure owned by that organization. However, any such organization selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages shall be subject to all other ordinance regulations dealing with general licensing and on-premise consumption.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-263. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate certified check or cash in the amount of $250.00 to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded; those costs associated with investigation and administration shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this chapter shall be retained. Any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-264. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold for consumption on the premises of a veteran's organization except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. midnight. Monday through Saturday.
(b)
Alcoholic beverages shall not be sold for consumption at any time in violation of any state law or local ordinance or regulation.
(c)
The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises is permitted on Sundays from 12:30 p.m. until 12:00 a.m. midnight.
(d)
Alcoholic beverages may be sold for consumption on the premises from 12:00 midnight to 1:55 a.m. on any New Year's Day, January 1, of any year.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Secs. 4-265—4-290. - Reserved.
