DIVISION 3. - R-2, MODERATE DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 46-103. - Purpose and intent.
The R-2 moderate density residential district is intended to establish and preserve quiet, stable residential neighborhoods with possible mixtures of single-family residences, duplexes and other dwelling types at medium densities (up to approximately 5.8 units per acre) free from other uses except those which are compatible with and convenient to the residents of such a district.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1001)
Sec. 46-104. - Permitted uses.
In the R-2 moderate density residential districts, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Single-family detached dwellings including mobile and manufactured homes, all dwellings being subject to the following design standards:
a.
The structure shall meet all applicable codes;
b.
The structure shall be placed on a permanent foundation;
c.
Residences must be constructed with a minimum roof slope of two inches vertical rise for every 12 inches of horizontal run, commonly referred to as a 2:12 slope;
d.
All towing devices, wheels, axles and hitches must be removed; and
e.
Each home shall be completely skirted with an appropriate barrier, properly ventilated, to enclose the area between the bottom of the structure and the ground. Such skirting shall not be required for those homes with a complete masonry or concrete perimeter foundation.
(2)
Accessory apartments.
(3)
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the principal residential use of the property, including guest houses (not accessory apartments) home gardens, non-commercial greenhouses, land shelters or enclosures for household pets. Livestock and poultry raising activities are specifically prohibited.
(4)
Single-family attached dwellings (townhouses), subject to the requirement of section 46-107.
(5)
Churches, temples, synagogues and places of worship, and their solely owned and operated customary accessory facilities, including cemeteries, provided such uses are located on a lot with a minimum area of one acre, principal buildings are set back a minimum of 50 feet from any property line, and parking areas are located outside of the required front yard and separated from any side or rear property line by a minimum six foot high, opaque fence or wall, or a densely planted landscape strip of at least ten feet in width.
(6)
Two-family dwellings (duplexes), three-family dwellings (triplexes) and four-family dwelling (quadraplexes).
(7)
Home occupations as limited in section 46-43.
(8)
Parks, playgrounds, community centers, tennis courts, swimming pools, golf courses and other recreational facilities, operated on a nonprofit basis.
(9)
Public and semi-public buildings and uses.
(10)
Schools, public elementary, middle and secondary.
(11)
Schools, parochial and private offering courses in general education substantially similar to that of a public school, not offered for profit.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1002)
Sec. 46-105. - Conditional uses.
In the R-2 moderate density residential districts, professional offices, not to exceed a density of 5,000 square feet of area per acre nor a total of 10,000 square feet, are permitted as conditional uses.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1003)
Sec. 46-106. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
Area, height, density and placement requirements for R-2 moderate density residential districts are as specified in sections 46-30 and 46-31.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1004)
Sec. 46-107. - Townhouse developments.
All developments in R-2 moderate density residential districts containing fee-simple townhouses shall conform to the following requirements:
(1)
Lots. Each townhouse shall be located on its own lot of record, and subdivision plat approval shall be required in accordance with the city subdivision regulations.
(2)
Minimum lot size, frontage, width. Each townhouse lot shall contain a minimum lot area of 2,000 square feet. The minimum lot width and frontage for each lot shall be 18 feet. The minimum lot area for a townhouse development shall be one acre.
(3)
Setbacks. Townhouses shall conform to the setbacks established for the zoning district in which it is located; provided, however, that zero lot line (no side building setback) is permitted between individual townhouse units forming the same building. Between buildings, there shall be a side yard of not less than 25 feet. The rear setback shall be a minimum of 25 feet. Dwelling units which form a part of a single building shall have the front setbacks and rooflines varied/staggered by a minimum of two feet.
(4)
Maximum unit per building. No more than six townhouses shall be permitted to form any building.
(5)
Streets. All streets within a townhouse development shall be built to city specifications as provided in the city subdivision regulations and dedicated to the city.
(6)
Maximum density. Townhouse developments shall not exceed the maximum density permitted within the particular zoning district.
(7)
Parking. Off-street parking facilities shall be grouped in bays, either adjacent to streets or in the interior of blocks. No off-street parking space shall be more than 100 feet by the most direct pedestrian route from a door of the dwelling unit it is intended to serve.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1005)
Secs. 46-108—46-127. - Reserved.
