Chapter 50 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; courts, ch. 26; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 54; personnel, ch. 66; traffic and vehicles, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Powers concerning police protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; Georgia Peace Officers Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.; compensation of officers restricted, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-9; liability for torts of police officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-3; obstructing or hindering law enforcement officers O.C.G.A. § 16-10-24; subsistence allowance, O.C.G.A. § 35-1-3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POLICE DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 50-31—50-45. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - POLICE OFFICERS AUTHORITY

Sec. 50-46. - Resisting, obstructing, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resist, obstruct or oppose any police officer in making or attempting to make a legal arrest of any person or in serving or attempting to serve any legal process or order issued by the authorities of the city, county or state.
(Ord. of 4-3-2000)
Sec. 50-47. - Authorized to summon aid; compliance.
Any police officer of the city shall have the power to summons to his aid any number of citizens, if any person shall resist his authority, or attempt to escape custody or to avoid an arrest; and it shall be unlawful for any person so summoned to refuse to obey the call of such police officer or give the assistance required. It shall be unlawful for any person summoned by any police officer to aid in suppressing an affray, riot, breach of the peace or other outrage, to refuse to do so, or to refuse when summoned as provided in this section to aid in arresting any offender against the law.
(Ord. of 4-3-2000)
Sec. 50-48. - Escape; attempted escape.
It shall be unlawful for any person to escape or attempt to escape from any city police officer, or from the city jail or from any officer or other person in charge of a work gang.
(Ord. of 4-3-2000)
Sec. 50-49. - Impersonating police officer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear on the streets wearing clothes or uniforms or badges adopted by the police force or to do any other similar act or to in any way impersonate a police officer.
(Ord. of 4-3-2000)
Sec. 50-50. - Penalties for violation.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this division shall, upon conviction in the municipal court of the city, be punished as provided in section 1-7.
Secs. 50-51—50-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CHIEF OF POLICE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-81 et seq.

Sec. 50-66. - Powers and duties.
The chief of police, or city police officers under his direction, shall:
(1)
Regularly attend meetings of the city council and any other meetings as directed by the city council;
(2)
Execute all orders and directions of the city manager;
(3)
Abate or remove any nuisance when so directed upon order of the municipal court;
(4)
Maintain the peace, good order and tranquility of the city by the enforcement of all municipal ordinances and state laws;
(5)
Place upon the municipal court docket the names of all persons violating any of the municipal ordinances and arrest and take into custody all persons who violate any of the city ordinances or state laws;
(6)
Under the direction of the city manager, be in charge of the police department and have supervision over the members thereof in the exercise of their powers, duties and authority and in hiring, discharging or suspending any members;
(7)
Should any arrested person be confined in the city holding cell, enter or cause to be entered the name of the person arrested, the date of arrest, and the name of the arresting officer or other person, on the station docket;
(8)
Post with the city a performance bond for the faithful performance of duties in an amount set by the city council payable to the city; all monies received by the officer while acting in the capacity of a law enforcement officer or while executing his administrative duties shall be paid over to the city clerk;
(9)
Serve all subpoenas and warrants, of the municipal court; and
(10)
Approve appearance bonds.
(Code 1988, § 4-1-1)
State Law reference— Chief of police designation, O.C.G.A. § 35-1-12.
Sec. 50-67. - Police department rules and regulations.
Under the direction of the city manager, the police chief shall maintain written rules and regulations for the operation of the police department as are necessary. Changes in the departmental rules and regulations shall be proposed in writing by the police chief. Such changes shall be submitted to the city manager for his approval and submission to council. These rules and regulations shall become effective following approval by the city council.
(Code 1988, § 4-1-2)
Secs. 50-68—50-92. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PATROL POWERS

Sec. 50-93. - Patrol powers generally.
(a)
The police officers of the city shall have the authority to patrol over any street, alley, path, sidewalk or park, in and around any stores, cafes, taverns, restaurants, dance halls, service stations or any other establishment in the city.
(b)
An officer while on duty for the city shall have authority to enter any type of business while open to the public and check to see if everything is being carried on in a lawful manner. After business hours, and while closed to the public, an officer for the city has authority to check places of business to see if the doors and windows are safely locked.
(c)
An officer for the city shall have the authority to check and investigate, enter and patrol any park, business, residential section or public place within the city limits if the officer has reason to believe some act is being committed which would involve the violation of a law or a city ordinance, a personal injury or damage to property, or if any of the these situations appear to be imminent.
(d)
No police officer shall enter a private dwelling without a search or arrest warrant unless he has the voluntary consent of the owner or occupant or he is in pursuit of a fugitive who the officer has personal knowledge or probable cause to believe has committed or attempted to commit a felony.
(Code 1988, § 4-1-3)
Sec. 50-94. - Authority and duties of police officers generally.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department, or any officers assigned by the chief of police, to enforce this Code and all traffic laws of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this city or any other state laws violated in this city.
(b)
Officers of the police department, or any officers assigned by the chief of police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformity with traffic laws; provided, that in the event of a fire or other emergency, to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Code 1988, § 4-1-4)
