Chapter 70 - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; environment, ch. 34; flood damage prevention, ch. 42; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 82; subdivisions, ch. 86; PUD, planned unit development district, § 86-291 et seq.; utilities, ch. 98; zoning, ch. 102; historic preservation, § 102-371 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 70-1—70-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 70-31. - Creation.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the planning commission is hereby created and established.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-1)
Sec. 70-32. - Membership.
The planning commission shall consist of eight members, who shall be residents of the city, appointed by the city council. The terms of the members of the planning commission shall be for four years, which terms shall be staggered. Any vacancy in membership of the planning commission shall be filled for the unexpired term by the city council which shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-2)
Sec. 70-33. - Organization; rules, staff; finances.
(a)
The planning commission shall elect its chair from among its members. The term of the chair shall be one year with eligibility for reelection. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the city. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission, unless otherwise exempted by law, shall be open to the public. All records of the planning commission shall be a public record.
(b)
The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the federal, state, or local public or semipublic agencies and other consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the city council.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-3)
Sec. 70-34. - Powers and duties.
It shall be the function and duty of the planning commission to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies, or participate with agencies in making those surveys and studies, of existing conditions and probable future development and to prepare such plans for physical, social and economic growth as will best promote the public welfare and prosperity, as well as the efficiency and economy in the development of the entire area of the city. In particular, the planning commission shall have the power and duty to:
(1)
Prepare a master plan or parts thereof for the development of the city;
(2)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city council a zoning ordinance and map for the city;
(3)
Prepare and recommend for adoption by the city council regulations for the subdivision of land, and administer the regulations that may be adopted; and
(4)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city council a plan or official map showing the exact location of the boundary lines of existing, proposed, extended, widened or narrowed streets, public open spaces or public building sites, together with regulations to control the erection of buildings or other structures within such lines, within the city.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-4)
Secs. 70-35—70-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CITY-COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 70-61. - Creation.
There is hereby created the planning and development commission of Hogansville, LaGrange, West Point, and Troup County.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-11)
Sec. 70-62. - Membership.
The membership of the planning and development commission shall consist of five members appointed by the City of LaGrange, four members appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Troup County, three members each appointed by the cities of Hogansville and West Point. All members so appointed to the commission must be residents of Troup County and/or residents of West Point, Hogansville and LaGrange, Georgia. Any expert or other employees need not be residents of the county.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-12)
Sec. 70-63. - Appropriations.
There is hereby designated from city funds such sums as appropriated from time to time by the city council to the use of the planning and development commission.
(Code 1988, § 8-1-13)
