Chapter 52 - LIBRARIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Powers of municipalities for libraries, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; power as to acquisition and operation, O.C.G.A., § 36-34-3; lease agreements for providing library services, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.1; city public libraries, O.C.G.A. § 20-5-20 et seq.; local and regional public libraries, O.C.G.A. § 20-5-40 et seq.

Sec. 52-1. - Board of trustees; members.
(a)
There is hereby created a board of trustees to be known as Trustees for the Hogansville Public Library, consisting of five members to be appointed for three-year staggered terms. In addition, one advisory, nonvoting, member, who is a resident of the county, but not the city, shall be appointed by the council to serve for one year. Appointments shall be made by council during the month of June of each year to fill the terms of the trustees which expire on June 30 next following.
(b)
Any vacancy occurring during the term of office of any member of the board of trustees shall be filled by the city council at its next regular meeting.
(c)
Members of the board of trustees shall serve without pay from the city or from monies donated by others for library purposes.
(Code 1988, § 7-2-1)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 52-2. - Supervision; personnel.
The board of trustees shall exercise a strict and rigid supervision over the Hogansville Public Library, and shall pass all rules and regulations for the government and control of the library. The board of trustees shall employ a competent librarian and, if necessary, an assistant librarian, and shall fix the salary or compensation of the librarian and assistant librarian, and have the right to dismiss or discharge the librarians, for just cause, at any time.
(Code 1988, § 7-2-2)
Sec. 52-3. - Budget; expenditures.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the board of trustees to prepare and submit an annual budget to the city council for the council's approval. Library funds from whatever source shall not be expended otherwise than as shown in the budget or some interim revision of it approved by the city council.
(b)
All sums of money appropriated to Hogansville Public Library by the city, and all donations given by others shall be received, held in custody by, and expended under the direction of the board of trustees in accordance with its budget.
(Code 1988, § 7-2-3)
