Chapter 26 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Establishment, jurisdiction, powers, § 5.05.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; law enforcement, ch. 50; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 54; traffic and vehicles, ch. 94.
State Law reference— The recorder's court was renamed the municipal court, pursuant to 1986 Ga. Laws, page 784 and O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1. The municipal court has concurrent jurisdiction with the state court over the following offenses: marijuana possession of one ounce or less, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6; vehicle operation without effective insurance, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-7; shoplifting of $100.00 or less, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-9; furnishing alcoholic beverages to and purchases and possession of alcoholic beverages by minors, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10; driver's license offenses, § 40-5-124; traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-376.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 26-31—26-45. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MUNICIPAL COURT RULES AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 26-46. - Time, place for holding court.
The municipal court shall be held on the second and fourth Mondays of each month or at such other times and places as the judge may designate, with approval of the city council. No change in the dates and times of sessions shall be made without 30 days' public notice being given.
(Code 1988, § 2-3-1)
Sec. 26-47. - Police attendance.
The chief of police, or his designee, and one other police officer shall attend each session of the municipal court with the chief or his designee serving as bailiff and the additional officer acting as court clerk.
(Code 1988, § 2-3-2)
Sec. 26-48. - Assistant judges.
At the first meeting of the city council in January of each year, one or more assistant judges shall be appointed by the city council to serve in the absence or disability of the judge. Such assistant judges shall take such oath of office as designated and administered by the city attorney.
(Code 1988, § 2-3-3)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-81 et seq.
Sec. 26-49. - Appearance; bond forfeitures.
All persons cited for or charged with offenses shall appear before the court on their designated court date; provided that bond forfeitures may be allowed for such speeding charges and nonresident traffic charges as approved from time to time by the judge.
(Code 1988, § 2-3-4)
Sec. 26-50. - Administrative fee.
In addition to any fine, forfeiture, cost or other monetary penalty imposed upon a defendant, there shall be assessed the following court costs: an administrative fee of $40.00, a processing fee of $25.00, and a technology fee of $25.00. The technology fee component of the court costs established herein shall be accounted for separately and dedicated to the procurement of technology serving the court system.
(Ord. No. 09-03-16-A, § 1, 3-16-2009)
Sec. 26-51. - Prosecuting attorney.
The city manager may appoint a prosecuting attorney of the municipal court who shall have the duties and authorities as outlined in Georgia law to represent the city in municipal court. Such individual shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and admitted to practice before the appellate courts of this state. The prosecuting attorney shall serve on a part-time basis, and will be otherwise allowed to engage in the private practice of law. The part-time prosecuting attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the city manager, and the city manager shall also be authorized to appoint such substitute prosecuting attorneys as may be in the best interests of the city. Nothing herein shall prohibit the city attorney from prosecuting ordinance violations in municipal court or otherwise representing the interests of the city in municipal court or appeals therefrom.
(Ord. No. 12-12-17, § 1, 12-17-2012)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 12-12-17, § 1, adopted Dec. 17, 2012, set forth provisions intended for use as § 26-50. Inasmuch as § 26-50 already existed, said provisions have been redesignated 26-51.
Secs. 26-52—26-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BAIL BONDS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Acceptance of cash bonds for offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-10; bond forfeiture, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-70; authority to require bond and forfeiture, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-4.

Sec. 26-66. - Persons prohibited from signing bonds.
No attorney at law and no official authorized to admit to bail, nor any city, or county official, shall become surety on any bond.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-21)
State Law reference— Elected officials prohibited from engaging in bail bond business, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-8.
Sec. 26-67. - Officer taking insufficient bail.
Any person, authorized to take bail, who takes bail which he knows to be insufficient, or accepts as surety any professional bondsman who is not qualified to act as surety, shall be guilty of an act of misconduct and shall be subject to disciplinary action by his department head in accordance with existing rules and regulations for such misconduct.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-22)
Sec. 26-68. - Condition of the bond.
If a person is admitted to bail for his appearance in the municipal court, the condition of the bail bond shall be that he will appear for hearing to answer the charge at the time and date specified on the copy of charges, and will submit himself to the orders and processes of the municipal judge trying the case and will not depart without leave of the municipal judge.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-23)
Sec. 26-69. - Prenumbered receipt as evidence of payment.
(a)
Any professional bondsman who accepts money or any other consideration for any bail bond which he executes, must for each payment received, give to the person paying the money or giving the consideration a prenumbered receipt as evidence of payment, which receipt shall state the date, name of the principal, amount of money or consideration received and purpose for which received, number of the power of attorney form attached to the bond, penal sum of the bond, and the name of the person making payment or giving consideration.
(b)
A duplicate copy of each receipt issued must be retained by the professional bondsman as a part of his record and shall be produced for examination upon request by the city council.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-24)
Sec. 26-70. - Forfeiture of bond; surrender of custody of defendant.
(a)
In the event of a forfeiture of the bond, the surety shall have the right to surrender the defendant into custody, without the return of any money paid for the signing of the bond.
(b)
An appearance bond shall not be forfeited unless the clerk of the court gave the surety at least 72 hours' written notice, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, before the time of the required appearance of the principal. Notice shall not be necessary if the time for appearance is within 72 hours from the time of arrest, provided the time for appearance is stated on the bond, or where the principal is given actual notice in open court.
(c)
The nonappearance of a defendant by the end of the court day where the call of the docket for the specific offense occurs shall be deemed a bond forfeiture, where such is allowed by the municipal judge.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-25)
Sec. 26-71. - Judgment on bond.
(a)
The judge shall, at the end of the court day, upon the failure of the principal to appear, forfeit the bond and order an execution hearing not sooner than 120 days but not later than 150 days after such failure to appear. Notice of the execution hearing shall be served within ten days of such failurre to appear by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the surety at the address listed on the bond or by personal service to the surety within ten days of such failure to appear at its home officer or to its designted registered agent. Service shall be considered complete upon the mailing of such certified notice.
(b)
If at the execution hearing it is determined that judgement should be entered, the judge shall so order and a writ of fieri facias shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the court where such judgement is entered. The provisions of this subsection shall apply to all bail bonds, whether returnable to superior court, state court, probate court, magistrate court, or municipal court.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-26)
State Law reference— Execution hearing on failure of principal to appear, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-71.
Sec. 26-72. - Conditions not warranting forfeiture of bond for failure to appear; remission of forfeiture.
(a)
No judgement shall be rendered on a forfeiture of any appearance bond if it is shown to the satisfaction of the court by the written statement of a licensed physician that the principal on the bond was prevented from attending by some mental or physical disability.
(b)
No judgement shall be rendered on a forfeiture of any appearance bond if it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that the prinicipal on the bond was prevented from attending because he or she was detained by reason of arrest, sentence, or confinement in a penal institution or jail in the State of Georgia, or so detained in anothr jurisdiction, or because he or she was involuntarily confined or detained pursuant to court order in a mental institution in the State of Georgia or in another jurisdiction. An official written notice of the holding institution in which the principal is being detained or confined shall be considered proof of the prinicipal's detention or confinement and such notice may be sent from the holding institution by mail or delivered by hand or by facsimile machine. Upon the presentation of such written notice to the clerk of the proper court, the prosecuting attorney, and the sheriff or other law enforcement officer having jurisdiction over the case, along with a letter of intent to pay all costs of returning the principal to the jurisdiction of the court, such notice and letter shall serve as the surety's request for a detainer or hold to be placed on the principal. Should there be a failure to place a detainer or hold within 15 days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, and after such presentation of such notice and letter of intent to pay costs, the surety shall then be relieved of the liability for the appearance bond without further order of the court.
(c)
No judgement shall be rendered on a forfeiture of any appearance bond if it is shown to the satification of the court that prior to the entry of the judgement on the forfeiture the principal on the bond is in the custody of a responsible law enforcement agency. An official written notice of the holding institution in which the principal is being detained or confined shall be considered proof of the principal's detention or confinement and such notice may be sent from the holding institution by mail or delivered by hand or by facsimile machine. Upon presentation of such written notice to the clerk of the proper court, the prosecuting attorney, and law enforcement officer having jurisdiction over the case along with a letter of intent to pay all costs of returning the principal to the jurisdiction of the court, such notice and letter shall serve as the surety's request for a detainer or hold to be placed against the principal. Should there be a failure to place a detainer or hold within 15 days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, and after presentation of such notice and letter of intent to pay costs, the surety shall then be relieved of the liability for the appearance bond without further order of the court.
(d)
In cases in which subsection (d)(3) of this section is not applicable, on application filed within 120 days from the payment of judgement, the court shall order remission under the following conditions:
(1)
Provided the bond amount has been paid within 120 days after judgement and the delay has not prevented prosecution of the pincipal and upon application to the court with prior notice to the prosecuting attorney of such application, said court shall direct remission of 95 percent of the bond amount remitted to the surety if the surety locates the principal in the custody of the sheriff in the jurisdiction where the bond was made or in another jurisdicition causing the return of the principal to the jurisdiction where the bond was made, apprehends, surrenders, or produces the principal, if the apprehension or surrender of the prinicpal was substantially procured or caused by the surety, or if the location of the principal by the surety caused the adjudication of the principal in the jurisdicition in which the bond was made. Should the surety, within two years of the principal's failure to appear, locate the principal in the custody of the sheriff in the juridiction where the bond was made or in another jurisdiction causing the return of the principal to the jurisdiction where the bond was made, apprehend, surrender, or produce the principal, if the apprehension or surrender of the principal is substantially procured or caused by the surety, or if the location of the principal by the surety causes the adjudication of the principal in the jurisdicition in which the bond was made, the surety shall be entitled to a refund of 50 percent of the bond amount. The application for 50 percent remission shall be filed no later than 30 days following the expiration of the two-year period following the date of judgement;
(2)
Remission shall be granted upon condition of the payment of court costs and of the expenses of returning the principal to the jurisdiction by the surety; or
(3)
If, within 120 days after judgement, the surety surrenders the principal to the responsible law enforcement officer, or said surrender has been denied by the responsible law enforcement officer, or surety locates the principal in custody in another jurisdiction, the surety shall only be required to pay costs and five percent of the face amount of the bond, which mount includes all surcharges. If it is shown to the satisfaction of the court, by the presentation of competent evidence from the law enforcement officer or the holding institution, that said surrender has been made or denied or that the principal is in custody in another jurisdiction or that said surrender has been made and that five percent of the face amount of the bond and all costs have been tendered to the sheriff, the court shall direct that the judgement be marked satisfied and that the writ of execution, fi fa., be canceled.
State Law reference— Conditions not warranting forfeiture, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-72.
Sec. 26-73. - Cancelling the bond.
When the condition of the bond is satisfied or the forfeiture of the bond has been discharged or remitted, the judge shall make an order cancelling the bond. Conviction or acquittal of the defendant shall satisfy the terms of the bond written by any bail bondsman.
(Code 1988, § 9-4-27)
