Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal means any creature, domestic or wild.
At large means off the premises of the owner and not under the immediate control of some person either by leash, cord, chain, or other restraint.
Public nuisance animal means any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life or health of other animals or persons, or substantially interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of life or property. The term "public nuisance animal" shall mean and include, but is not limited to, any animal that:
(1)
Is repeatedly found at large;
(2)
Damages the property of anyone other than its owners, molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby;
(3)
Chases vehicles;
(4)
Excessively makes disturbing noises including, but not limited to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
(5)
Causes fouling of the air by odor and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
(6)
Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored;
(7)
Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare by virtue of the number and/or types of animals maintained; or
(8)
Attacks other domestic animals.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-1))
Sec. 6-2. - Citation and/or impoundment of animals running at large.
(a)
The city may impound any animal running at large in the city, or may issue a citation to the owner, or both.
(b)
Impounded animals will be forwarded to the county, and the rules of said county as to notice, redemption or other disposition of said animal shall apply.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-2))
Sec. 6-3. - Disposal of dead animals.
(a)
Any impounded animal may be destroyed after one week following the notice, as provided in section 6-2, unless the owner claims the animal and pays a fee established by the city, plus all fees incurred in capturing and impoundment.
(b)
Such sums do not include any fines that may result from citations issued for violation of this section.
(c)
If any dead animal is found upon a public right-of-way, the city may remove and dispose of it and charge the owner a fee, depending upon the costs incurred by the city.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-3))
Sec. 6-4. - Public nuisance animals.
The harboring of any animal found to be dangerous or a public nuisance is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-4))
Sec. 6-5. - Restraint of dogs and cats.
(a)
The owner or keeper of each dog or cat within the city shall keep such animal from becoming a nuisance and from endangering or injuring any person. Dogs shall at all times be:
(1)
Kept within a proper enclosure from which such animal cannot escape;
(2)
Restrained upon the owner's property by a substantial chain, cable, rope or other device from which such animal cannot escape so as to not reach any adjoining property or public right-of-way; or
(3)
Restrained on a leash and accompanied by the owner or another responsible person.
(b)
Permanent tethering of animals prohibited. Permanent tethering is defined as keeping an animal tethered for 12 or more hours in a 24-hour period. Permanent tethering of an animal is prohibited and considered cruelty to animals as defined in section 6-9. Temporary or occasional tethering is allowed with the following conditions:
(1)
Only one animal may be attached to each tethering line, running cable line or trolley system.
(2)
No animal may be attached to a tether line, running cable or trolley system between the hours 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(3)
Tethers and cables attaching the animal must be made of substance which cannot be chewed into by the animal nor shall it weigh more than five percent of the body weight of the animal tethered.
(4)
No log or heavy chains may be used to tether an animal.
(5)
A tether or cable line or trolley system must have a working swivel installed at each end and be attached to a stationary object that cannot be moved by the animal.
(6)
The length of the tether from the running cable line or trolley system to the animal's collar should allow access to the maximum available exercise area and allow the animal free access to appropriate food, clean water, and adequate shelter.
(7)
The tether, cable or trolley system must be attached to a properly fitted harness or collar and with enough room between the collar and the animal's throat through which two fingers of an adult may fit. Choke collars and pinch collars are prohibited for the purpose of using a tether line, cable line or trolley system.
(8)
Sufficient distance shall be maintained from any other objects to prohibit the tangling of the tether line or cable, from extending over an object or an edge that could result in injury of strangulation of the animal and be of sufficient distance from any fence so as to prohibit the animal access to the fence.
(9)
No more than three animals are allowed to be tethered and each animal must be able to have its own space without being able to intermingle or get entangled.
(c)
Wherever an animal is kept in such manner which constitutes a nuisance, a proceeding to abate the nuisance may be brought by the party aggrieved, an animal found by the court to constitute a nuisance may be impounded by the city if the owner, after reasonable opportunity to do so, fails to abate the nuisance as ordered by the court.
(d)
Wherever a dog is allowed to roam free in violation of this section, impoundment of the animal is authorized. Upon identification of the owner, a citation shall be issued for violation of this section.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-5))
Sec. 6-6. - Restraint of animals.
The owner of any animal shall not allow such animal to run at large in the city.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-6))
Sec. 6-7. - Keeping of livestock.
(a)
For the purposes of this section, the term "livestock" means domestic animals and fowl customarily kept on a farm, including, but not limited to, horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, sheep, goats, ducks, geese, chickens and turkeys.
(b)
No livestock shall be permitted on a lot containing two or less acres. On lots greater than two and less than ten acres, there shall be allowed one livestock animal per acre, or its portion. For lots in excess of ten acres, there shall be no restriction as to the number of livestock animals allowed.
(c)
On any lot upon which livestock are lawfully kept as allowed in this section, all such livestock shall be kept at least 50 feet from any property line.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-7))
Sec. 6-8. - Rabies inoculation of dogs and cats.
All dogs and cats within the city are required to be inoculated against rabies. It is further required that all dogs and cats display a tag (e.g., metal or plastic tags or microchips) clearly showing the inoculation identification number and the owner's name and address. Any animal subject to this section and running at large, whose owner fails to comply, is subject to impoundment.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-8))
Sec. 6-9. - Cruelty to animals.
No person shall unnecessarily overload, overdrive, torture, deprive of necessary sustenance or shelter, or unnecessarily or cruelly beat, mutilate, or kill any domestic animal, or cause such action to be done, or carry in or upon any vehicle, or otherwise, any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-9))
Sec. 6-10. - Confinement without sustenance; abandonment.
No person shall impound or confine any animal in any place or fail to supply the animal, during such confinement, with a sufficient quantity of good, wholesome food and water, or keep any animal in any enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, or abandon any animal.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-10))
Sec. 6-11. - Poisoning animals.
No person shall willfully place within reach of any domestic animals any substance that is poisonous or harmful to the animal.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-11))
Sec. 6-12. - Bird sanctuary; wildlife.
(a)
The city is declared to be a bird sanctuary; and no wild bird shall be knowingly killed in the city by any person except for nuisance birds such as starlings, and then only at the direction of the mayor and city council on a motion adopted to that effect.
(b)
No other wild game may be shot or trapped in the city except by order of the police chief.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-12))
Sec. 6-13. - Noisy or offensive animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or permit any fowl or animal in the city in such manner as to become noisy, offensive or a nuisance to the neighbors or citizens of the city, or to disturb the peace of the city.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-13))
Sec. 6-14. - Dead animals; disposition.
No person shall place any dead animal upon his premises or upon the premises of any other person, or allow any dead animal to remain upon his premises or any dead animal belonging to the person to remain upon the premises of another without disposing of the animal or causing the animal to be properly removed or disposed of within 24 hours.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-14))
Sec. 6-15. - Hogs prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to have or maintain any hogs, pigs or any hog sty or other place for housing such animals within the city. Each day a person is in violation of this section shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-15))
Sec. 6-16. - Transport of dogs.
(a)
No dog shall be transported in the open bed of a pick-up truck unless the pick-up has side and tail rails at least 24 inches in height and has installed a means to prevent the dog from being thrown, falling or jumping from the vehicle by either being cross tethered to the vehicle or enclosed by a portable kennel, container or cage.
(b)
No dog shall be left in an open truck bed unattended while parked within the city limits unless the dog is enclosed in a portable kennel, container or cage.
(c)
Subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply to a dog used by a farmer or farm employee while engaged in fanning or a hunting dog being used by a licensed hunter during legal hunting season or a dog in training for such purpose.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-16))
Secs. 6-17—6-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DANGEROUS DOG CONTROL[2]

Sec. 6-36. - Implementation of state law.
This article shall be known and may be referred to as the dangerous dog control ordinance of the city. It is the intention of the governing authority of the city by adoption of this article to implement the provisions of the "Responsible Dog Ownership Law" of the state, formerly known as the dangerous dog control law, adopted and approved by the general assembly of the state on April 4, 1988, and made effective for enforcement purposes on January 1, 1989, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended (1988 Ga. Laws, pages 824—834).
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-30))
Sec. 6-37. - Hearing board.
All hearings required to be conducted pursuant to this article shall be held and conducted by an animal control board consisting of no fewer than three nor more than five members, as three no more than five appointed by the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-31))
Sec. 6-38. - Dog control officer; position created.
There is hereby created in the city the position of dog control officer as provided in and contemplated by the provisions of the responsible dog ownership law referenced herein; immediately upon the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived, the mayor and council is hereby authorized and directed to appoint an individual as dog control officer of the city to carry out the duties and responsibilities as provided in the responsible dog ownership law of the state.
(Ord. of 4-13-2015(1), § 1(6-32))
