Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
(4) State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; prohibition of furnishing alcoholic beverages to, purchase and possession of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23; authority to adopt rules and regulations relating to manufacture, sale and distribution of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-49; no decal, stamp, or other marking required on malt beverage containers designating the particular municipality in which a sale of malt beverages is made or in which resides a licensed retailer, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-82.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Beer means any malt beverage.
Fortified wines, as defined in this article, are classed as liquor.
License means the authorization by the governing authority of the city to engage in the sale of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages by the drink on the premises.
Licensee means a person, real or artificial, holding any class of license issued under the terms of this division.
Lounge means a separate room connected with a part of and adjacent to the licensed premises of a restaurant and/or its adjacent lobby or reception area, with all booths, stools and tables being open to view only from within the lounge. All lounges shall have a seating capacity for at least 20 persons. All access and all exits to and from the lounge shall open into the restaurant and/or lobby or reception area adjoining the restaurant except that emergency exits or doors solely for service or delivery personnel are authorized.
Manufacturer means a producer or bottler of beer, wine or distilled spirits.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned-in locality, whether a room, shop or building, wherein distilled spirits are sold.
Private club means an organization existing under the laws of the state or a charter from a state or national parent organization and having a tax-exempt status under section 501 of the U.S. IRS Code, having at least 50 members regularly paying monthly, quarterly, semiannual or annual dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofitable purposes, owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members or guests; provided that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid or directly receives, in the form of a salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages to the club or its member or guests beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at any annual meeting or by its governing board out of the general revenue of the club.
Private residence means a house, dwelling or building wherein not less than one family customarily resides. This shall not apply to any of the above which has been unoccupied for a period of 12 consecutive months immediately prior to the filing of an application hereunder.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly prepared and served at any time when mixed drinks are sold or served; provided, however, that a restaurant shall not be required to serve food after 10:00 p.m., and mixed drinks shall not be sold or serve at any time not allowed by this chapter. A restaurant, as contemplated by this chapter, shall be open for business at least five days a week with the exception of holidays, vacations and period of redecorating and shall also meet and maintain the requirements for restaurants with liquor pouring licenses. Any establishment operated as a restaurant under the provisions of this chapter may cease to serve meals no more than 30 days during any calendar year for purposes of undergoing redecorating or renovations and while continuing to serve alcoholic beverages under a liquor pouring license. Any exception from this requirement will be allowed by the city commission, in its discretion, upon request by the license holder.
Retail beer dealer means any person who engages in selling beer within the corporate limits of the city at retail only to consumers and any person serving beer only to consumers for a pecuniary consideration within the corporate limits of the city.
Retail sale means selling or offering for sale alcoholic beverages to any member of the public by pouring for on-the-premises consumption.
School means only such state, county, city or other schools as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Wholesale beer dealer means any person who sells beer to other wholesale dealers or to retail beer dealers.
Wholesaler means any person, engaged in distribution or selling to retailers for the purpose of resale any alcoholic beverages as defined herein.
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2 ("Alcoholic Beverages—General Provisions—Definitions"), shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this chapter. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this chapter, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
(Code 1962, § 3-1; Code 1986, § 3-1; Ord. No. 521, § 3-40, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-2. - Sale, transfer or delivery.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, transfer or deliver, or engage in the business of selling, transferring or delivering, any alcoholic beverage of any kind, other than beer, within the city.
(Code 1962, § 3-2; Code 1986, § 3-2)
Sec. 4-3. - Sale of beer—Prohibited on certain days.
No beer shall be sold within this city on any Sunday or on Christmas Day.
(Code 1962, § 3-13; Code 1986, § 3-6; Ord. No. 310, § 1, 12-2-1985)
Sec. 4-4. - Same—Prohibited between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
No beer shall be sold in the city between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
(Code 1962, § 3-14; Code 1986, § 3-7; Ord. No. 266, § 1, 7-6-1982; Ord. No. 474, §§ I, II, 2-3-1998)
Sec. 4-5. - Consumption—On or in streets or other public places.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage on any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or grounds or in or at any other public place in the city.
(b)
This section shall not apply to the consumption of alcoholic beverages as authorized in sections 4-6 and 4-7
(Code 1962, §§ 3-14, 14-8; Code 1986, § 3-8)
Sec. 4-6. - Same—In restaurants or other places of business.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage in or at any restaurant, cafe, eating place, hotel, drug store, or other place of business in the city unless such person first secures the express consent of the proprietor or manager then in charge of such place and if such restaurant, cafe, eating place, hotel, drug store, or other place of business would qualify and be eligible to obtain a beer license under the current requirements for the Code of Ordinances of the city and the laws of the state.
(Code 1962, § 14-8; Code 1986, § 3-9; Ord. No. 445, § 3-9, 6-6-1995)
Sec. 4-7. - Same—On premises where sold.
No beer shall be consumed on the premises where sold, except that beer may be consumed in a licensed restaurant, cafe or tavern.
(Code 1962, § 3-14; Code 1986, § 3-10)
Secs. 4-8—4-38. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RETAIL BEER DEALER'S LICENSE

FOOTNOTE(S):
(5) State Law reference— Local license required, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-3-2, 3-5-40 et seq.
Sec. 4-39. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a retail beer dealer except under a license issued pursuant to this article.
(Code 1962, § 3-3; Code 1986, § 3-26)
Sec. 4-40. - Filing and contents of application.
A written application for a retail beer dealer's license shall be filed with the city clerk, which application shall contain the following information:
(1)
The full name and address of the applicant, indication as to whether the applicant is an individual, partnership or corporation, and if the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of each partner.
(2)
The location or address of the place of business at which the applicant will engage in the retail beer business, if and when permission to do so is granted by the city and a license issued.
(3)
Such other information as the city clerk may, under the direction of the board of commissioners, from time to time require.
(Code 1962, § 3-4; Code 1986, § 3-27)
Sec. 4-41. - Applicant's fingerprints.
All applicants for a license under this article shall furnish a complete set of fingerprints, which shall be forwarded to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which shall search the files of the Georgia Crime Information Center, for a period of two years immediately preceding the date of the application, for any instance of criminal activity. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall also submit such fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under the rules established by the United States Department of Justice for processing and identification records. The federal record, if any, shall be obtained and returned to the city.
(Code 1986, § 3-28)
Sec. 4-42. - Fee.
The annual fee for a retail beer dealer's license shall be as established by ordinance or resolution of the board of commissioners, from time to time, and made available on a fee schedule maintained in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1986, § 3-29)
Sec. 4-43. - Approval or disapproval of application.
(a)
Every application filed with the city clerk pursuant to this article shall be presented by the clerk to the board of commissioners in a meeting duly assembled and, after investigating the fitness of the applicant and the fitness of the proposed location of the retail beer business, the board of commissioners shall approve or disapprove the application. If the application is disapproved, the clerk shall return to the applicant the check submitted with the application.
(b)
In considering an application for a retail beer dealer's license, the board of commissioners may, in its sole discretion, consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application or proposed location of the business. If, in its judgment, circumstances are such that the issuance of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for disapproving the application.
(c)
No application shall be approved under this section if the applicant has been convicted under any federal, state or local law for a criminal offense involving moral turpitude, or has been convicted under any federal, state or local law of any criminal offense involving alcoholic beverages, gambling or tax law violations, if such conviction tends to indicate that the applicant would not maintain his or her retail beer business in conformity with federal and state law and the ordinances of the city.
(Code 1962, § 3-5; Code 1986, § 3-30)
Sec. 4-44. - Disapproval if place of business located near church or church school.
(a)
Application for a license under this article shall be disapproved if the applicant's place of business for sale of beer is located within 400 feet of any church or church school.
(b)
For issuance of this beer license, all measurements to determine distances shall be measured by the most direct route of travel on the ground and shall be measured in the following manner:
(1)
From the door of the structure from which the alcoholic beverage is sold or offered for sale;
(2)
In a straight line to the nearest public sidewalk, walkway, street, road or highway;
(3)
Along such public sidewalk, walkway, street, road or highway by the nearest route;
(4)
To the front door of the building, or to the nearest portion of the grounds, whichever is applicable under the appropriate statute.
(Code 1962, § 3-14; Code 1986, § 3-31; Ord. No. 488, § 3-31, 11-8-1999)
Sec. 4-45. - Notice of, and hearing on, disapproval.
No application for a license under this article shall be disapproved unless the applicant has been given at least three days written notice, in person or by registered mail, of the intention of the board of commissioners' council to disapprove the application, which notice shall state the reasons for such action. Upon application made within five days of receipt of the notice, the applicant shall be afforded a hearing, with opportunity to present evidence and cross examine opposing witnesses. The applicant may appear at such hearing in person and by attorney.
(Code 1986, § 3-32)
Sec. 4-46. - Issuance.
If an application for a retail beer dealer's license is approved by the board of commissioners, the city clerk shall issue a proper license to the applicant authorizing the applicant to engage in the business of a retail beer dealer at the business location designated in the application.
(Code 1962, § 3-5; Code 1986, § 3-33)
Sec. 4-47. - Valid only at designated location; not transferable.
A retail beer dealer's license shall be applicable to and valid with respect only to the business location referred to therein and shall not be transferable to any person other than the named licensee.
(Code 1962, § 3-6; Code 1986, § 3-34)
Sec. 4-48. - Display.
Every person holding a retail beer dealer's license shall display the license prominently at all times on the premises for which the license was issued.
(Code 1986, § 3-35)
Sec. 4-49. - Expiration.
A retail beer dealer's license shall expire upon, and be of no validity after July 31, next after its issuance.
(Code 1962, § 3-6; Code 1986, § 3-36)
Sec. 4-50. - Suspension or revocation.
(a)
Any retail beer dealer's license may be suspended for a definite length of time or revoked pursuant to this section.
(b)
The making of any statement in an application for a retail beer dealer's license which statement is later found to be false, shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license.
(c)
The performance of any act prohibited by this chapter or the failure to perform any act required hereby, as well as the violation of this Code or of any ordinance of the city or any law, state or federal, relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages, shall constitute grounds for the revocation of a retail beer dealer's license.
(d)
A retail beer dealer's license may be temporarily suspended and the place of business closed upon receipt of evidence by the board of commissioners or the chief of police of any violation referred to in this section.
(e)
No license shall be revoked under this section, unless the licensee has been given at least three days written notice, in person or by registered mail, of the intention of the board to take such action. The notice shall specify the time, place and purpose of the hearing and the charges upon which the board proposes to take action. At the hearing, the licensee shall have the right to appear, in person and by attorney, and the board and the licensee shall have the right to present evidence relating to the question as to whether or not a violation, as set forth in this section, has occurred, as well as evidence relating to any extenuating or mitigating circumstances.
(Code 1962, § 3-11; Code 1986, § 3-37)
Secs. 4-51—4-73. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EXCISE TAX ON WHOLESALE BEER DEALERS

FOOTNOTE(S):
(6) State Law reference— Local excise tax on malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80 et seq.
Sec. 4-74. - Levied.
There is hereby levied and imposed upon each wholesale dealer selling beer or malt beverages within the city an excise tax in the amount specified in section 3-5-80 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80).
(Code 1962, § 3-10.1; Code 1986, § 3-51)
Sec. 4-75. - Report of sales and payment of tax.
Each wholesale dealer who has sold beer or malt beverages within the city shall file a report, by the tenth day of each month, itemizing, for the preceding calendar month, the exact quantities of all beer or malt beverages, by size and type of container, sold within the city. Each such wholesale dealer shall remit to the city, on the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which such sales were made, the amount of excise tax due in accordance with this article.
(Code 1962, § 3-10.1; Code 1986, § 3-52)
Sec. 4-76. - Delinquency; false or fraudulent reports.
(a)
The failure to make a timely report and remittance pursuant to this chapter shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report and remittance were due and a further penalty of 20 percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30 day period or any portion thereof during which such report and remittance are not made.
(b)
The filing of a false or fraudulent report under this article shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 50 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(c)
The failure to make a timely report or remittance or the filing of a false or fraudulent report under this article shall constitute grounds for the revocation of the business license issued by the city to the wholesale dealer involved.
(Code 1962, § 3-10.1; Code 1986, § 3-53)
Sec. 4-77. - Tax additional to other fees, taxes or charges.
The excise tax imposed by this article shall be in addition to any license fee, tax or charge which may now or in the future be imposed upon the business of selling beer or malt beverages at retail or wholesale within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1962, § 3-10.1; Code 1986, § 3-55)
Secs. 4-78—4-99. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SALE OF WINE

FOOTNOTE(S):
(7) State Law reference— Wine regulation and licensing, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-1 et seq.; local wine license required, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40.
Sec. 4-100. - Sale of wine by the drink or bottle.
Any licensed restaurant or cafe which drives 70 percent or greater of its gross receipts from the sale of food for consumption on premises shall be authorized to apply for a retail wine dealers license with the city for on premises consumption.
(Ord. No. 504, § 3-60(I), 6-13-2002)
Sec. 4-101. - Requirements for issuance of license.
All applications for a wine dealers' license shall comply with sections 4-39, 4-40, 4-41, 4-42, 4-43, 4-44, 4-45, 4-46, 4-47, 4-48 4-49 and 4-50 of the Code of Ordinances of the city.
(Ord. No. 504, § 3-60(II), 6-13-2002)
Sec. 4-102. - Hours of sale.
No wine shall be sold between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. in the city. No wine shall be sold on Sunday or on Christmas Day in the city.
(Ord. No. 504, § 3-60(III), 6-13-2002)
Secs. 4-103—4-132. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - SALE OF LIQUOR BY THE DRINK

Sec. 4-133. - Qualifying conditions.
No application for a license hereunder shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
(1)
Licenses shall be granted only to private clubs or restaurants which may include lounges operated in conjunction with such restaurants.
(2)
All restaurants applying for or having pouring licenses must, in addition to all other requirements relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink, meet and maintain the following requirements:
a.
Meet all health and sanitation requirements set forth for food service establishments by the city, state and federal governments.
b.
Must have installed and operative cooking facilities and kitchen equipment for accommodating the demands of 60 food customers.
c.
Must have a complete place setting of metal cutlery and china dishes in regular use for each of 60 food customers.
d.
Must have seating, at booths or tables designed for food service, sufficient for at least 60 persons and such booths or tables shall be large enough to accommodate at least two place settings of metal cutlery and china dishes.
e.
Such a restaurant, as contemplated by this section shall be, at all times during the hours set forth in subsection (2)f of this section, prepared to serve full-course meals with a substantial variety of culinary choices, or substantial substitutes therefor, and shall print and maintain a complete menu of the same and furnish such printed menu to each food customer, with prices which are competitive with other restaurants within the city, whether or not those restaurants engage in the business of pouring mixed drinks.
f.
All foods listed on the required printed menu or substantial substitutes therefor must be available at any time when mixed drinks are sold or served; provided, however, that a restaurant shall not be required to serve food after 10:00 p.m., and mixed drinks shall not be sold or served at any time not allowed by this chapter. A restaurant as contemplated by this chapter shall be open for business at least five days a week, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating. The hours for serving of food may be prolonged but in no event shall mixed drinks be sold or served at any time not allowed by this chapter.
(3)
The gross square footage of the dining area, lounge area, serving area, kitchen, restrooms and storage rooms of any restaurant business, other than private clubs, licensed hereunder must be a minimum of 2,000 square feet. Parking requirements for restaurants licensed hereunder shall be the same as those required in the present ordinances of the city, except that existing restaurants and nonconforming structures will be exempt from such requirements.
(4)
No license shall be issued to any person who has been convicted or sentenced for a misdemeanor under this chapter or any state law regulating alcoholic beverage, within two years or sentenced for or convicted of possession or sale of a drug or controlled substance as prohibited by the state or a felony under state statutes or under any other state or federal felony statute within five years of the filing of an application for such license.
(5)
No license shall be issued to any law enforcement official or to any employees of the city.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-41, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-134. - Police investigation.
All applications required by this division shall be investigated by the city police department and acted upon by the city commission after investigation has been completed by the police department and their report presented to the city commission.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-42, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-135. - Application; information required; fingerprinting.
All applicants shall furnish all reasonable data, information and records requested of them by the police department and failure to furnish such date, information and records within 30 days from the date of such request shall automatically serve to dismiss, with prejudice, the application. The individual owner applying or one partner, or one corporate officer, shall be fingerprinted for city purposes except that in the case any of the above has current prints on file as a privilege licensee of the city, this requirement may be waived. Notwithstanding this provision, however, city officials may require fingerprints from other partners or corporate officers, and a new set of prints from the above referred to privilege licensees. Applicants, by filing an application agree to produce for oral interrogation, any person requested by the police department and considered as being important in the ascertainment of the facts relative to such license. The failure to produce such person within 30 days after being requested to do so shall result in the automatic dismissal of such application.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-43, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-136. - Plot plan and floor plan to accompany application.
(a)
Each applicant for an original license, except private clubs, shall submit a plot plan and floor plan prepared by an architect, engineer, contractor, surveyor or other qualified person, showing all compliance with all distance, square foot, kitchen arrangement and food serving area tables and seating arrangement requirements contained herein.
(b)
On renewals, the same as the preceding shall be accomplished unless the applicant states in the re-application that there has been no change in any of the above compliance items.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-44, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-137. - Processing time.
The city may require 60 days for processing any application for a license required under this article.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-45, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-138. - Consumption-on-premises establishments.
(a)
Off-street parking. The requirements of off-street parking for this section shall be the same as would be required under the ordinances or codes for a new building, or under the zoning ordinances or codes for a new business. This provision shall not apply to any holder of a license hereunder unless, subsequent to the adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives, such license holder divests himself or herself of 50 percent or more of the interest in the business owned by him or her at the time of the enactment of this chapter, but shall be effective with regard to any establishment for which a new alcoholic beverage license is applied for after adoption of this chapter to make use of an existing building, or other premises, as well as applicants for licenses who will be required to comply with this chapter in the erection of, or use of, a new building.
(b)
Visibility; shrubbery. On any premises occupied by a license holder hereunder, the immediate proximity of the building shall be maintained so as to keep vegetation low and vision unobstructed. Failure to comply with this provision shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of consumption-on-premises licenses, or denial of renewal of such licenses.
(c)
Permitted areas for consumption on premises. The consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted only inside that portion of the licensee's building designated for such consumption, or at such outside location immediately adjacent to the building and specifically designated for the consumption of food and alcoholic beverages, but not for the consumption of alcoholic beverages only, with such outside location for the consumption of food and alcoholic beverages to include patios, decks, screen porches and like areas. This provision is not to be interpreted as permitting unrestricted consumption of alcoholic beverages on any portion of licensed premises, especially including parking lots and the grounds surrounding the building and similar areas, and no licensee hereunder shall permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages except in those designated areas as described in this section.
(d)
Premises to be well-lighted. The exterior of each building in which alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the premises shall have sufficient lighting so that all entrances and parking areas are clearly visible at all times when the premises are open for business. Also, the lounge and restaurant areas, if any, and all tables, booths and other areas where customers are served, and all passageways for customers shall be sufficiently well illuminated so that they may be viewed by those in such areas.
(e)
Fire and safety; maximum occupancy provisions. All drinking establishments licenses, or to be considered for licensing for consumption on the premises of any alcoholic beverages, shall be measured as to the net usable floor area, and publicly visible posters stating the maximum number of persons allowable inside the building where such beverages are consumed by the fire chief or assistant fire chief. The maximum allowable floorspace per occupant in the net usable floor area shall be 15 square feet. The alcoholic beverage licensee will be responsible for seeing that the established occupancy limits are not exceeded, and the violation of the provision shall be due cause for suspension or revocation by the commission, after proper hearing, of the alcoholic beverage license.
(f)
Package sales prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell, or give or lend to any person, for any purpose, including carry-out, any alcoholic beverages by the broken container, or remainder, in a package or bottle except that beer and/or wine in unbroken packages may be sold by consumption-on-premises establishments holding current package beer and/or package wine licenses.
(g)
Serving of drinks to be by employees or employers; employees not to drink or be seated with customers. Alcoholic beverages hereunder shall be served only by alcoholic beverage license holders, permitted employees or holders of a letter of eligibility to serve alcoholic beverages, but neither the license holder nor the eligible employee shall consume any alcoholic beverages nor any employee be seated with any customer.
(h)
Service in back rooms prohibited. The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption by persons in any back room or side room which is not open to general public use is prohibited except that private parties or conventions, which have been scheduled in advance, may be served in public or private dining rooms or meeting rooms; and provided further, that this prohibition shall not apply to private clubs hereunder nor to the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption hereunder to the registered guests of any hotel or motel.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-46, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-139. - Notice of intent to be advertised; signs posted.
(a)
Any applicant for a liquor pouring license at a location which has not been licensed for such sales within the 12-month period preceding the filing of such application shall give notice of the purpose of making such application, unless the applicant or the location has been determined to be disqualified by advertisement at lease twice a week for two consecutive weeks prior to the hearing, in the daily paper published in the city in which legal advertisements of the city are carried, which notice shall contain the location of the proposed business and shall give the name of the applicant, and, if a partnership, the name of the partners and, if a corporation, the names of the officers and the date and time the city commission would hear the application. The advertisement referred to in this section shall be of type not smaller than ten-point capital and lower case and shall be at least a two-inch, two-column advertisement. It shall be the responsibility of the application for such a license to advertise the notice of hearing as required as follows:
Notice of application for retail license for liquor pouring (mixed drinks). The undersigned has made application to the city commission of the City of Quitman for a retail license for liquor pouring (mixed drinks) at ____________.
This application will be heard by the city commission at its meeting to be held at ____________ o'clock p.m. on the ____________ day of ____________, 20____________.
____________
Applicant
(b)
(1)
The applicant shall cause to be placed on the location of the proposed business, for a week before the hearing, a sign stating the following:
LIQUOR POURING LICENSE APPLIED FOR. HEARING BEFORE THE CITY COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF QUITMAN, GEORGIA ON THE ____________ DAY OF ____________, 20____________.
(2)
The sign shall not be less than 24 inches by 36 inches and shall face towards all public property which adjoins the location. Such signs shall be placed where they can be easily seen from all public properties adjoining the location.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-47, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-140. - Advance approval for structure to be built.
Where a building in which a retailer intends to operate under the provisions of this division is at the time of the application for such license not in existence or not yet completed, a license may be issued for such location provided the plans for the proposed building show clearly a compliance with the other provisions of this division. No sales or consumption will be allowed in such establishment until it has been completed in accordance with such plans and is in conformity with all other provisions of this division and this Code.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-48, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-141. - Deliveries off premises prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder to make deliveries of any alcoholic beverage by the drink beyond the boundaries of the premises covered by the license.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-49, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-142. - Special qualifications for private clubs.
Private clubs, as defined herein, shall furnish with license applications a copy of the articles of incorporation from the state, if incorporated by the state, and documentation of the valid up-to-date status of its national or state charter from its parent organization, together with documentation of its compliance denoting a tax-exempt status under section 501 of the U.S. IRS Code. Private clubs whose primary purpose is not categorized by the term "lodge," "fraternal order," or "veterans post," such as private clubs for golf, tennis and other similar recreation, are exempt from the above provision which relates to a national or state charter from a parent organization. Private clubs selling alcoholic beverages under the provisions of this chapter are expressly prohibited from selling or giving away memberships on a per occasion basis or on any temporary basis, or charging a fee to admit nonmembers on a per occasion basis.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-50, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-143. - Cost of license to sell liquor by the drink.
Every applicant for a license under this chapter shall pay, with the filing of the application, a nonrefundable fee which shall be established by ordinance or resolution of the board of commissioners from time to time. The cost of an annual license under this chapter shall be established by ordinance or resolution of the board of commissioners, from time to time. The license year shall run from January 1 of each year through December 31 when said license shall expire. In the event that an application for a license under this chapter is received after June 30, the license fee for the remainder of the year shall be as established by ordinance or resolution of the board of commissioners, from time to time. All applications received prior to June 30 of each year shall pay the entire annual license fee. All licenses are nontransferable.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-51, 6-14-2005; Ord. No. 527, § I, 11-3-2005)
Sec. 4-144. - Hours of operation.
No mixed drinks shall be sold on Sunday nor any other time prohibited by law. No liquor shall be sold after 12:00 midnight nor before 11:00 a.m. on such days as said sales are not prohibited by law. On New Year's Eve, even if same does not fall on a Sunday, sale of mixed drinks will be allowed until 2:00 a.m.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-52, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-145. - Distance from schools and churches.
No license for the sale of liquor by the drink shall be issued to any establishment closer to a church or school than authorized by this Code for the issuance of a beer license.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-53, 6-14-2005)
Editor's note—
The distance requirements referred to in this section appear in this chapter under article II, "Retail Beer Dealer's License," section 4-44, pertaining to disapproval of application if place of business is located near church or church school.
Sec. 4-146. - License revocation or suspension.
Any violation of this article by any license holder shall be deemed sufficient grounds for revocation or suspension of the license issued to the violator by the city, and the refusal thereafter to issue any license to such violator under this article. The decision to suspend or revoke a license shall be made by the city manager and shall be in writing and forwarded by certified mail to the owner or served personally by the city police department upon the owner.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-54, 6-14-2005)
Sec. 4-147. - Appeal from decision of city manager.
The decision of the city manager may be appealed to the city commission by written notice of appeal being filed with the city clerk within ten days of the date of service of the written decision upon the owner or the date of the receipt of the certified mail. A hearing shall then be scheduled no sooner than ten days from the date of the filing of the appeal and no later than 45 days after the date of the filing of the appeal. At the hearing, the city attorney and city manager shall present evidence, and the licensee shall be allowed to cross examine witnesses and present evidence. Any objections or procedural questions shall be decided by the commission chairperson. The city commission shall have the right to increase or decrease the suspension after hearing the evidence or to permanently revoke the license if it finds that this article has been violated.
(Ord. No. 521, § 3-55, 6-14-2005)
