Chapter 16 - NUISANCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Nuisances generally, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 16-1—16-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - NUISANCE ABATEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Nuisance abatement, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq.

Sec. 16-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Applicable codes means:
(1)
The standards adopted in chapter 103, article II, provided that such standards as applied to property improvements shall be deemed to mean those building or minimum standard codes in existence at the time such real property improvements were constructed unless otherwise provided by law.
(2)
Any fire or life safety code as provided for in O.C.G.A. title 25, ch. 2 (O.C.G.A. § 25-2-1 et seq.).
Drug crime means an act which is a violation of the state controlled substances act (O.C.G.A. § 16-13-20 et seq.).
Dwellings, buildings, or structures means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses, improvements, and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any building or structure of any design. The term "dwellings, buildings, or structures" shall not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm, or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage, or processing of crops, livestock, poultry, or other farm products.
Interested parties means:
(1)
Owner;
(2)
Those parties having an interest in the property as revealed by a certification of title to the property conducted in accordance with the title standards of the state bar;
(3)
Those parties having filed a notice in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-3-9;
(4)
Any other party having an interest in the property whose identity and address are reasonably ascertainable from the records of the petitioner or records maintained in the county courthouse or by the clerk of the court. Interested parties shall not include the holder of the benefit or burden of any easement or right-of-way whose interest is properly recorded which interest shall remain unaffected; and
(5)
Persons in possession of said property and premises.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Public authority means any member of a governing authority, any housing authority officer, or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the municipality, county, or state relating to health, fire, or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings, or structures in the city.
Public officer means the city officer or city employee designed by the city to enforce the provisions of this article.
Repair means altering or improving a dwelling, building, or structure so as to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes in the jurisdiction where the property is located and the cleaning or removal of debris, trash, and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building, or structure.
Resident means any person residing in the city on or after the date on which the alleged nuisance arose.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8.
Sec. 16-20. - Findings.
The city council finds that there exist in the city dwellings, buildings, or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business uses due to dilapidation and not in compliance with applicable codes; which have defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities; which lack adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; or where other conditions exist rendering such dwellings, buildings, or structures unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city, or vacant, dilapidated dwellings, buildings, or structures in which drug crimes are being committed.
State Law reference— Required findings, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7.
Sec. 16-21. - Duty of property owners.
(a)
The owner of every dwelling, building, structure, or property within the city shall construct and maintain such dwelling, building, structure, or property in conformance with applicable codes in force or such ordinances which regulate and prohibit activities on property and which declare it to be a public nuisance to construct or maintain any dwelling, building, structure, or property in violation of such codes or ordinances. It is unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to construct or maintain buildings which are vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes, or which constitute an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. Such buildings, include, but are not limited to, those:
(1)
Whose interior or exterior bearing walls, or other vertical structural members list, lean or buckle to such extent as to weaken the structural support of such member or members below the minimum required by the building codes of the city.
(2)
Which have parts which are so attached that they are likely to fall and injure persons or property.
(3)
Which in whole or in part are so dilapidated, decayed, damaged from any cause or deteriorated in any manner that they are likely to cause injury to persons or property.
(4)
Which are likely to cause injury to persons or property because they contain weakened, defective or deteriorated:
a.
Footings or foundations;
b.
Floorings or floor supports;
c.
Ceilings or ceiling supports;
d.
Roof or chimney.
(5)
Which have visible soil erosion adjacent to or under any structural support.
(6)
Which are likely to cause injury to persons or property in the event of catastrophe, wind storm, fire, earthquake, panic because of inadequate stairways, elevators, escalators, fire escapes or other means of egress as required by the building and safety codes of the city.
(7)
Which are likely to cause injury or are contrary to the general safety and public welfare to persons or property because they have defective or inadequate plumbing, improper sanitation facilities, insufficient ventilation, or lack of running water, as required by the building codes or other ordinances of the city, or that provide a habitat for infestation of vermin and other pests.
(8)
Which constitute fire hazards as defined in applicable ordinances and which are thereby dangerous to persons or property.
(9)
Which are vacant, and because of lack of proper maintenance, deterioration or decay, fire hazards, or fire damage are otherwise dangerous to human life, safety, health or morals.
(10)
Buildings which have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes, so as to have become dangerous to life, safety, morals, or the general health and welfare of the occupants thereof or the people of the city.
(b)
The creation or maintenance of any of the following by the owner of any dwelling, building, structure, or property shall be unlawful, an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions and a public nuisance:
(1)
Sounds, animals or things that interfere with the peace or comfort or disturb the quiet of the city.
(2)
The emission of obnoxious and offensive odors; the tainting of the air rendering it offensive or unwholesome so as to affect the health or comfort of reasonable persons residing in the neighborhood.
(3)
The placing or throwing or discharging from any house or premises or flow from or out of any house or premises, of any filthy, foul or offensive matter or liquid of any kind, into any street, alley or public place, or upon any adjacent lot or ground.
(4)
The obstruction or pollution of any watercourse or source of water supply in the city.
(5)
The emission of dense smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or other agency in the city so as to cause disturbance or discomfort to the public. For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Smoke Chart, as published and used by the United States Geological Survey, shall be the standard for such grading; and smoke shall be defined and declared to be dense when it is of a degree of density of number three on the chart, or greater, for more than six minutes in any one hour, whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(6)
Any vacant lot whereon debris is permitted to accumulate and remain in such a manner as to create a fire hazard or other hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
(7)
Any building, business, thing, machine, or machinery erected, repaired, conducted, maintained, operated or used contrary to or in violation of any of the fire and safety regulations of this Code, state law or city ordinance.
(8)
Any enclosure or other area in which any animals are kept, including, but not limited to, dog kennels or runs and other animal or fowl pens wherein manure, dung, filth or litter is allowed to accumulate.
(9)
The carcass of any dead animal of any kind on any premises within the city.
(10)
The depositing and leaving on private or public property of trash, garbage, refuse, scrap building materials, paper, cardboard containers, brick, cement, rubbish, tree residue, cans, containers, or any other rubbish or trash that is a menace to public health and safety in the city or which unreasonably annoys others.
(11)
Unoccupied buildings that are not properly whitewashed or cleansed.
(12)
Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked, and other automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured, maintained on the premises for a period of 30 days or more (except in licensed junkyards). The absence of a license plate for the current year and/or the absence of a current annual motor vehicle registration shall be prima facie evidence that such vehicle is junked.
(13)
Any gutter or spout that conveys filth into any street, lane or alley of the city.
(14)
Any trees, shrubbery or other plants or parts thereof, which obstruct clear, safe vision on roadways and intersections of the city.
(15)
Any business or building where illegal activities are habitually and commonly conducted in such a manner as to reasonably suggest that the owner or operator of the business or building was aware of the illegal activities and failed to reasonably attempt to prevent those activities.
(Code 2010, §§ 6-2-51, 9-2-1—9-2-3)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(a)(1).
Sec. 16-22. - Complaint or determination.
(a)
Whenever a request is filed with the public officer by a public authority or by at least five residents of the city charging that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer shall make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling, building, structure, or property. The public officer may determine, under existing ordinances, that a dwelling, building, or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes upon personal observation or report of a law enforcement agency and evidence of drug crimes being committed.
(b)
If the officer's investigation or inspection identifies that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer may issue a complaint in rem against the lot, tract, or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building, or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the interested parties for such dwelling, building, or structure.
(c)
The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the interested parties; state with particularity the factual basis for the action; and contain a statement of the action sought by the public officer to abate the alleged nuisance. The summons shall notify the interested parties that a hearing will be held before a court of competent jurisdiction as determined by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5, at a date and time certain and at a place within the city. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint in the municipal court. The interested parties shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for hearing.
(Code 2010, §§ 6-2-52, 9-2-4)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-9(a)(3), 41-2-10.
Sec. 16-23. - Abatement order.
(a)
After the notice and hearing provided for in section 16-22, the municipal court determines that the dwelling, building, or structure in question is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the municipal court shall state, in writing, findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the interested parties that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing an order:
(1)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation and, if applicable, to secure the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to demolish and remove such dwelling, building, or structure and all debris from the property.
(b)
For purposes of this section, the municipal court shall make its determination of reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter, or improve a structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be factor one in the court's determination. The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration, or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a state appraiser classification as provided in O.C.G.A. title 43, ch. 39A (O.C.G.A. § 43-39A-1 et seq.), qualified building contractors, or qualified building inspectors without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure shall be the cost necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations in force in the city.
(Code 2010, § 6-2-53)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(a)(4).
Sec. 16-24. - Abatement by city.
(a)
If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. Such abatement action shall commence within 270 days after the expiration of time specified in the order for abatement by the owner. Any time during which such action is prohibited by a court order issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-13 or any other equitable relief granted by a court of competent jurisdiction shall not be counted toward the 270 days in which such abatement action must commence. The public officer shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the building, dwelling, or structure a placard with the following words:
This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful.
(b)
If the public officer has the structure demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sales proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. The public officer and city council are relieved of any and all liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials; and the amount of the cost of demolition, including all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the county tax commissioner or city tax collector or city revenue officer, and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
(Code 2010, §§ 6-2-55, 9-2-5)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(a)(5)—(a)(7).
