Chapter 113 - WETLAND PROTECTION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 113-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Generalized wetlands map means the current U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory maps for the city.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetland determination means a delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1344, as amended.
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S. excepting those activities exempted in section 404 of the federal Clean Water Act.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrophytic vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
(Code 2010, § 10-1-2)
Sec. 113-2. - Violations.
(a)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this section, the violator may be required to remove the structure at the discretion of the city council.
(b)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation, or fill has taken place in violation of this section, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable, at the discretion of the city council.
(c)
If the city manager discovers a violation of this chapter that also constitutes a violation of any provision of the Clean Water Act as amended, the city council shall issue written notification of the violation to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the landowner.
(Code 2010, § 10-3-6)
Sec. 113-3. - Establishment of the wetlands protection district.
(a)
The wetlands protection district is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city that are mapped as wetland areas by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service national wetlands inventory maps. This map shall be referred to as the generalized wetlands map and is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto.
(b)
The generalized wetlands map does not represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the city and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this chapter does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Code 2010, § 10-1-3)
Sec. 113-4. - Review procedures.
The application shall be made to the city and will be reviewed within 30 days. At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing fee as specified by the city. Filing fees up to the larger of $500.00 per acre may be required to evaluate the application. This fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services pertaining to functional assessment, mitigation, and wetland boundary determinations, as deemed necessary by the building official. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval) by the building official or designated appointee. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the building official or designated appointee. Decisions of the building official or designated appointee may be appealed to the city council.
(Code 2010, § 10-3-4)
Secs. 113-5—113-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 113-27. - Amendments.
These regulations and the national wetlands inventory maps of the city East and West quads may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information becomes available.
(Code 2010, § 10-3-9)
Sec. 113-28. - Relief assessment.
The county board of tax assessors shall consider requirements of these regulations in determining the fair market value of land.
(Code 2010, § 10-3-10)
Secs. 113-29—113-59. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS AND SITE PLANS

Sec. 113-60. - Site plans.
Application for a local development permit within the city shall include a site plan, drawn at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet, with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved, cross sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on the cross sectional drawings.
(2)
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
(3)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet.
(4)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(5)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet; and no greater than one foot for slopes less than or equal to two percent.
(6)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous or toxic materials.
(7)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(Code 2010, § 10-3-1)
Sec. 113-61. - Exemptions to site plan requirements.
The following activities and developments are exempt from the requirement for detailed site plans:
(1)
Single family detached homes constructed within a subdivision of fewer than five parcels.
(2)
Repairs to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
(3)
Construction of minor structures, such as sheds or additions to single family residences.
(Code 2010, § 10-3-3)
Sec. 113-62. - Activities to comply with site plan.
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan. Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of stormwater runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of development, result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill or removal of the overall appearance of the development as proposed, can be amended only with the approval of the building official or designated appointee. Minor changes, such as the realignment of streets or minor alterations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions are exempted from this requirement.
(Code 2010, § 10-3-2)
Sec. 113-63. - Duration of permit validity.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within 12 months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire 12 months after the date that work ceased.
(c)
Written notice of pending expiration of the development permit shall be issued by the building official or designated appointee.
(Code 2010, § 10-3-5)
Sec. 113-64. - Suspension, revocation.
The building official or designated appointee may suspend or revoke a permit if he finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit. The building official or designated appointee shall cause notice of denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having a broad circulation in the area where the wetland is located.
(Code 2010, § 10-3-7)
Sec. 113-65. - Judicial review.
(a)
Jurisdiction. All final decisions of the city concerning denial, approval or conditional approval of a permit shall be reviewable in the county superior court.
(b)
Alternative actions. Based on these proceedings and the decision of the county superior court the city councilor or its designee may, within the time specified by the county superior court, elect to:
(1)
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
(2)
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
(3)
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the city council.
(Code 2010, § 10-3-8)
Secs. 113-66—113-88. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 113-89. - Permit and corps of engineers determination.
No regulated activity will be permitted within the wetlands protection district without written permission or a permit from the city. If the area proposed for development is located within 50 feet of a wetlands protection district boundary, as determined by the building inspector, using the generalized wetlands map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination shall be required. If the Corps determines that wetlands are present on the proposed development site, the local permit or permission will not be granted until a section 404 permit or letter of permission is issued.
(Code 2010, § 10-2-1)
Sec. 113-90. - Permitted uses.
The following uses shall be allowed as of right within the wetlands protection district to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining, or dredging except as provided herein. The activities listed in this section are exempted from section 404 regulations provided they do not have impacts on a navigable waterway that would necessitate acquisition of an individual 404 permit. However, under section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, a permit may be required in some circumstances.
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish and other wildlife, provided it does not affect waters of the state or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
(3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the state forestry commission and as specified in section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(4)
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the state department of agriculture.
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research, and nature trails.
(Code 2010, § 10-2-2)
Sec. 113-91. - Prohibited uses.
The following uses are not permitted within the wetlands protection district:
(1)
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants;
(2)
Hazardous or sanitary waste landfills.
(Code 2010, § 10-2-3)
