DIVISION 107. - TRAFFIC AND PARKING STANDARDS

Sec. 107.1. - Purpose.
These standards are intended to provide the reasonable provision of future off street parking within the City of Ball Ground; to restrict temporary storage of vehicles and recreational vehicles in residential districts; to alleviate any unnecessary traffic congestion which could result from on street parking; and to encourage development and usage of off street parking facilities.
Sec. 107.2. - Street access and curb cuts.
A.
Each building shall be located on a lot or parcel which abuts a public street for at least 40 feet or has access to a public street by means of a recorded access easement if approved by the Administrator and Public Works Director.
B.
Street access and curb cuts for service drives, entrances, exits and other similar facilities on public streets in other than residential districts shall be approved by the Public Works Director. Curb cuts constructed for new driveways to developments on arterial and collector streets shall be aligned directly across from existing curb cuts. The Public Works Director may approve other locations when it is determined that alignment with an existing curb cut is not appropriate. No curb cuts shall be located within 40 feet of any intersection or within 30 feet of another curb cut measured along the curb line. A curb cut shall be no greater than 30 feet in width, and no closer than 20 feet to any property line unless approved by the Public Works Director.
C.
All entrances or exits of any street or drive, public or private, from or to any state highway shall be approved by the state highway department prior to the construction of such street or drive, or the issuance of any development permit for any improvement to be served by such street or drive.
D.
No curb cuts for commercial developments may be placed along residential streets.
Sec. 107.3. - Street improvements.
A.
The Public Works Director may require improvements such as the widening of streets and/or rights of way or the addition of curbs and gutters, in order to accommodate the increased traffic due to proposed developments.
B.
Existing streets shall be connected and extended throughout the limits of proposed developments. If such street is already used primarily for residential access, requested street improvements to provide access to a proposed non-residential use must be approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals before being connected, extended or in any way provided access to the non residential use.
C.
New developments containing at least four structures and/or ten dwelling units must provide sidewalks.
Sec. 107.4. - Corner visibility clearance.
modified
In all districts except CBD, no fence, structure, sign, planting or other obstruction (above a height of 3 feet) shall be maintained within 15 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way unless approved by the Public Works Director.
Sec. 107.5. - Parking spaces required.
The required number of parking spaces shall be provided on the same lot with the use it serves, except:
A.
If vehicular parking or storage space required cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot on which the principal use is conducted, the Board of Zoning Appeals may permit such space to be provided on other off street property, provided such space lies within 400 feet of the main entrance of such principal use and meets the storage requirements set forth in [Section] 105.7. Such vehicular parking space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not hereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
B.
The required parking spaces of any number of separated uses may be combined in one (1) lot, but the required spaces assigned to one use may not be assigned to another use at the same time, except that churches, theaters, or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night or on Sunday may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night or on Sunday.
C.
No street parking spaces may be allowed as meeting the parking requirement except in the CBD district. There shall be no required parking spaces in the CBD district except as provided in Section 104.7.
D.
No parking area may be used for the sale, repair, dismantling, servicing or long term storage of any vehicle or equipment.
E.
Required spaces. Table 107-1 enumerates the maximum off-street parking provision standards for all properties within the City. If a building or development contains multiple uses, the number of spaces required shall be calculated by summing the amount required by each individual use and multiplying the sum by a factor of 0.8. Parking areas are encouraged to be set to the side or rear of the primary building in such a manner as to reduce visibility from the street (see individual zoning districts for density bonuses relating to parking location and/or structures).
F.
If required parking is provided exclusively in the rear yard, then the required front yard setback may be reduced 50%.
G.
Any entity that retrofits an existing site without vehicular or pedestrian interconnection to provide permanent access to adjacent sites' parking and sidewalks shall be allowed a 10% reduction in required parking.
TABLE 107-1 - MAXIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING ALLOWED
EXPAND
Use Maximum Spaces Allowed
Automobile repair 4 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Automobile service station 3 spaces per service bay (minimum 6 spaces)
Self-service gasoline station 5 spaces plus one per cash register
Business/professional offices 3 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Boarding and rooming houses One per bedroom
Churches, theaters, auditoriums, funeral homes, gymnasiums, stadiums and other places of assembly One space per 4 seats (18 inches per bench seat)
Day care centers (non-residential) 3 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Clinics 3 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Convenience store 5 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Dwellings 2 spaces per dwelling unit
Restaurants/lodges/grocery stores over 10,000 sq. ft. 6 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area (including unenclosed patio/meeting areas)
General retail or personal service 4 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Shopping centers (<50,000 sq. ft. GLA) 3.5 spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Rest homes and personal care homes One space per 4 beds
Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes and assisting living centers One space per 2 beds
Motels and hotels One space per unit plus one space per 200 sq. ft. of accessory uses such as convention halls, banquet rooms, lounges, restaurants and the like
Public and private colleges, universities and trade schools 25 spaces plus 8 spaces per classroom
Public and private elementary schools or day care centers 5 spaces plus 2 spaces per classroom
Public and private secondary schools 15 spaces plus 6 spaces per classroom
Warehouse, distribution and factory output One space per 2,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area for first 100,000 sq. ft. plus one space per 10,000 sq. ft. thereafter.
Recreational centers including swimming pools and golf courses 20 spaces minimum (40 for 18 hole golf courses)
  Sec. 107.6. - Surface parking standards.
A.
The parking of any vehicle (including, but not limited to, trailers and boats) on any lot in any district on other than a surface treated and hardened to accommodate vehicles up to 8,000 pounds gross axle weight is prohibited.
B.
Minimum standards for surfaces treated and hardened to accommodate vehicles up to 8,000 pounds are as follows:
C.
A parking plan for all but individual single-family residential uses shall be submitted with the building plans. The Administrator and Public Works Director shall review the proposed parking plan to insure its conformance with all applicable provisions of this article. Occupancy or use of a building shall not be allowed until the parking facilities are completed in accordance with the approved plan. The provisions of the required spaces on a temporary basis on a hard surfaced sub base (subgrade plus an asphalt first layer or bound crushed stone aggregate) shall satisfy this requirement. All parking facilities including entrances, exits and maneuvering areas shall comply with the following:
1)
Design of parking areas, including space and driveway arrangement, shall conform to the geometric design standards of the Institute of Traffic Engineers, which is hereby incorporated by reference as though fully set forth herein. Have access to a public street and be graded and paved. Curbing may be required when needed for effective drainage control to prevent damage to abutting property or public streets, subject to approval by the Public Works Director.
2)
Have all spaces marked with paint lines, curb stones or other similar designations (single-family residential uses and lots of fewer that 5 spaces are exempted).
3)
Provide individual parking spaces with dimensions not less than 9 feet wide and 20 feet deep, exclusive of passageways. In the cases of 25 or more required parking spaces 25% of the required spaces may be of an area not less than 8 feet x 16 feet.
4)
Provide interior drives with a minimum width of 20 feet which connect each space with a public street.
5)
Parking areas established within a residential district for a permitted non residential use shall provide visual screening between vehicle use areas, including all accessways, and the abutting residential property. Such screening may consist of a wall or solid fence no less than five feet in height and/or a vegetative row of hedges and trees sufficient in nature to provide continuous visual screening. Such screening improvements shall be located upon a non-paved surface at least 5 feet in width and are subject to approval by the Administrator. See standards set forth in Section 106.5 (Tree Protection and Landscaping) for landscaping requirements.
6)
Adequate lighting shall be provided if the facilities are to be used at night. Such lighting shall be arranged and installed so as not to reflect or cause glare on abutting properties.
7)
No parking or loading area shall be established in the required front yard of any residential district except for a single-family residential use; no more than 35 percent of the required front yard may be paved or used for parking in such case.
8)
The parking areas shall be permanently maintained by the owners or the occupants for their invites or licensees so long as the use(s) exists.
Sec. 107.7. - Parking in residential districts.
A.
Business vehicles under 8,000 pounds axle weight shall be allowed to park in the side or rear yard of the residentially zoned property. Business vehicles weighing or exceeding 8,000 pounds axle weight shall be allowed to park in residentially zoned property during daylight hours, but not overnight or on Saturdays or Sundays. Daylight hours shall mean 30 minutes after dawn to 30 minutes before sunset.
B.
No recreational vehicle shall be allowed to park in the front of the principal structure in a district zoned for residential purposes. If the property is located on a corner lot, no parking of the vehicle may occur within 20 feet of the rear side that abuts a public street.
C.
Vehicle repair may not be conducted on vehicles located on any public street. This prohibition shall not apply to emergency repairs taking less than 24 hours to complete.
Sec. 107.8. - Off street loading requirements.
modified
Where required, off street loading spaces shall be provided on the same or adjoining premises with the facility it serves, either inside or outside a building. A loading berth shall have a minimum dimension of 12 feet by 35 feet by 14 feet overhead clearance. Such facilities must be designed so that no truck/vehicle maneuvering occurs on the public right-of-way nor in areas designated for the parking of vehicles except in the Central Business District in which case designated loading zones may also be utilized. Loading areas must be adequately screened from residentially zoned properties, subject to approval from the Administrator.
TABLE 107-2 - OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS
EXPAND
Use Required Loading Spaces
Retail operations, including accessory uses within hotels or office buildings One per 20,000 square feet of gross floor area (or fraction thereof)
Office buildings and hotels One per 75,000 square feet of gross floor area (or fraction thereof)
Industrial, manufacturing, warehouse and distribution uses One per 40,000 square feet of gross floor area (or fraction thereof)
