Chapter 17 - OFFENSES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

Sec. 17-1. - Bonfires.
It shall be unlawful for any person, during a holiday or at any other time, to build a bonfire of any description within the city limits, except at places approved and designated by the mayor and council.
(Code 1981, § 13-1)
Sec. 17-2. - Damaging, defacing public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally injure, deface, break or destroy any of the property of the city.
(Code 1981, § 13-2)
Sec. 17-3. - Damaging, interfering with poles, wires other fixtures.
It shall be unlawful to cut, break, or in any other manner molest or interfere with any telegraph, telephone, electric light or other pole used for the support of electric wires, or to throw at, break, injure, or in any other manner molest or interfere with any fixture, wire, lamp, or other thing placed thereon, or to tie any horse, mule or other animal of any sort to any such pole.
(Code 1981, § 13-3)
Sec. 17-4. - Disorderly conduct; acts constituting.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to engage in any violent, tumultuous or similar disorderly conduct tending to infringe on the peace and repose of the citizens of the city. The following provisions while not being limited thereto, are hereby declared to constitute acts of disorderly conduct.
(1)
It shall be disorderly conduct to be found drunk making any unnecessary or unusual noise to the disturbance of any citizen.
(2)
It shall be disorderly conduct for any person to act indecent in any car or vehicle parked or not parked within the city.
(3)
It shall be disorderly conduct to use violent, boisterous, profane, or obscene language in public places, use opprobrious words to another or in his presence, without provocation.
(4)
An assault or assault and battery shall constitute disorderly conduct.
(5)
The making of unnecessary loud noises by the loud and unnecessary blowing of automobile horns, the discharge of firearms, or otherwise disturbing the peace and good order shall be disorderly conduct.
(Code 1981, § 13-4)
Sec. 17-5. - Discharging firearms, air guns, etc.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to discharge any gun, pistol, air gun or other such weapon projecting lead or any other projectile or missile within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
This section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty; nor to any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending person or property.
(Code 1981, § 13-5)
Sec. 17-6. - Drinking in public.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way in the city.
(Code 1981, § 13-6)
Sec. 17-7. - Posting signs on posts, trees, poles.
It shall be unlawful to tack, nail, or otherwise place any signs on posts, trees, or poles of the city without permission of the mayor and council.
(Code 1981, § 13-7)
Sec. 17-8. - Public address systems; permission required.
It shall be unlawful to operate or use a public address system upon the streets of the city, or within the corporate limits of the city, upon either public or private property, without the written permission of the mayor and council.
(Code 1981, § 13-8)
Sec. 17-9. - Resisting arrest.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any police officer of the city who, at the time of encountering resistance, shall be in the act of making, or attempting to make, a lawful arrest of such person. The term "resist" used in this section is defined as any act of whatever kind and nature designed to prevent the effecting of a lawful arrest.
(Code 1981, § 13-9)
Sec. 17-10. - Throwing of missiles.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to throw any stone, rock or other projectile or missile upon or at any vehicle, building, or other public or private property, or upon or at any person in any public or private way or place.
(Code 1981, § 13-10)
Sec. 17-11. - Contemptuous or disorderly conduct toward mayor and council.
Any person guilty of contemptuous or disorderly conduct towards the mayor and council, or in their presence, shall be punished in accordance with the penalty section as set forth in this chapter.
(Code 1981, § 13-11)
Sec. 17-12. - Indecent exposure.
Any person commits the offense of indecent exposure when, in any public place within the city or in public view within the city, he is found in a state of nudity, or making any indecent exposure of his body or part or portion of his body shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1981, § 13-13)
Sec. 17-13. - Muffler required, noise producing devices on vehicles.
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in the city without said vehicle being equipped with a muffler which emits no offensive noise, or to operate a motor vehicle equipped with mufflers commonly known as smitties, clear or gutted mufflers or exhaust systems equipped with cutouts, or with noise making devices attached to the tailpipe, such as spark plugs, or inner tubes or any other noise making device.
(Code 1981, § 13-14)
Sec. 17-14. - Penalties.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a misdemeanor and may, upon conviction, be subject to the punishment set out in section 1-13.
Sec. 17-15. - Vagrancy.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city, having no apparent means of subsistence, to neglect to apply himself or themselves to some honest and legitimate calling, or to be found habitually loitering about said city, or tramping from house to house through the city in quest of clothing or any other thing to the annoyance of the citizens and to the detriment of the peace and good order of the city. It is hereby made the duty of the police officers to arrest all vagrants and to take them before the municipal court, to be dealt with according to law.
(Code 1981, § 13-21)
Sec. 17-16. - Disorderly houses.
No person shall keep or maintain a disorderly house within the city, nor a house where persons of a disreputable or disorderly character are permitted to congregate.
(Code 1981, § 13-22)
Sec. 17-17. - False alarms.
No person shall intentionally make, turn in, or give a false alarm of fire, or of need for police or ambulance assistance, or aid or abet in the commission of such act.
(Code 1981, § 13-24)
Sec. 17-18. - False reports of crimes.
No person within the city shall make to, or file with, the police department of the city or any police officer of the city any false, misleading, or unfounded statement, or report concerning the commission or alleged commission of any Code or ordinance violation occurring within the city.
(Code 1981, § 13-25)
Sec. 17-19. - Fireworks.
(a)
The term "fireworks," as referred to in this section, shall mean and include any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, roman candles, daygo bombs, sparklers, or other fireworks of like construction, any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or shoot rockets or crackers or any kind of fireworks or to explode dynamite cartridges, or torpedoes within the corporate limits of the city, without first having written permission from the governing body.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, dispense, give away, or in any other manner dispose of any rockets, firecrackers, dynamite caps, torpedoes, or any kind of fireworks within the corporate limits of the city, unless the intended purchaser first displays to said seller an authorization of the governing body allowing said items to be used or discharged within the city limits, or said intended purchaser furnishes the seller, before any of the said items are delivered, an affidavit duly sworn to before one authorized to administer oaths to the effect that said items will be shipped to persons and places outside the city.
(d)
The governing body shall give its consent for the sale of the items referred to in this section when the same is authorized under the statutes of the state.
(Code 1981, § 13-26)
Sec. 17-20. - Gambling generally, setting up, promoting, participating, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to set up, promote or play at any game of chance by lot or with dice, cards, numbers, hazards or any other gambling device whatsoever for the disposal of money or other thing of value or under the pretext of a sale, gift or delivery thereof, or for any right, share or interest therein.
(Code 1981, § 13-27)
Sec. 17-21. - Obscene printed matter, pictures or other things tending to corrupt morals of youth prohibited.
Whoever, within the corporate limits of the city, imports, prints, publishes, exhibits, displays, sells or distributes any book, pamphlet, ballad, printed paper, stereopticon, moving picture, slide or film, or other thing containing obscene language or any obscene prints, figures, pictures or descriptions manifestly tending to the corruption of the morals of youth, or introduces into any family, school or place of education, or buys, procures, receives or has in his possession any book, pamphlet, ballad, printed paper, stereopticon slide, or moving picture film, or other thing, either for the purpose of sale, exhibition, loan or circulation, or with intent to introduce the same into any family, school or place of education, or any other place of public amusement, shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Code 1981, § 13-29)
Sec. 17-22. - Parades and processions.
(a)
Defined. A parade, march, or procession is defined to be a group or number of people or vehicles, or the combination thereof, consisting of five or more vehicles or 20 or more persons, or a combination of three or more vehicles and 15 or more persons, proceeding or moving in a body or in concert along the streets or sidewalks of the city.
(b)
Prohibited without permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to be a part of or to engage in any parade, march, or procession or to march, parade, or proceed along any street or sidewalk in the city a part or a party to such parade, march or procession without there having been first obtained a written permit from the chief of police for the holding of such parade, march, or procession.
(c)
Application for permit. Permits shall be secured from the chief of police of the city filing a written application therefor at least 48 hours prior to the time when the proposed parade, march, or procession is desired to be held. Applications shall be filed on forms provided by the city and signed by the person desiring to conduct such parade, march, or procession, or by the properly authorized agent of the organization, person, or persons who propose to conduct such parade, march, or procession. The application forms shall be filled out completely giving all legal information as designated in such forms.
(d)
Issuance of permit; conditions. The issuance of the permit by the chief of police shall show the time and place of beginning the march, parade, or procession, the route it shall follow, and the destination thereof, all of which said conditions shall be decided by the chief of police giving full consideration to the conditions contained in the request of the applicant, the condition and width of the streets or sidewalks along said proposed route, and the nature of traffic conditions as related to the number of participants and the number and type vehicles to participate in the parade, march, or procession as shown on the application for such permit.
(e)
Considerations pertinent to issuance of permit. The chief of police shall not arbitrarily withhold granting a permit but shall issue a permit to parade, march, or proceed along the streets and sidewalks of the city giving full consideration to traffic conditions and the number of police personnel available to direct traffic, properly manage said parade, march, or procession, and provide police protection to participants and the general public.
(f)
Police vehicle to precede parades and processions. All parades, marches, or processions through the streets of the city shall be preceded by a police vehicle and conducted in such manner as to impede and interfere with the flow of traffic to the least possible extent.
(g)
Funeral processions excepted. The terms of this section shall not apply to funeral processions.
(Code 1981, § 13-30)
Sec. 17-23. - Peeping toms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to lurk about the premises or near the private habitations of other persons, or to enter upon the private premises of another to spy or look into the houses or buildings used for residential purposes.
(Code 1981, § 13-31)
Sec. 17-24. - Open container of alcohol.
It shall be unlawful for any person who is a passenger in a motor vehicle to possess an open container of any alcoholic beverage. The term open container shall mean any container which is immediately capable of being consumed from or the seal of which has been broken.
(Ord. of 5-18-1998(01), 5-18-1998)
Sec. 17-25. - Possession of alcohol in public.
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess an open container of any alcoholic beverage in a public place, unless such public place is rented or leased by the city to a public or private entity and the city grants permission for alcohol to be served. The term open container shall mean any container which is immediately capable of being consumed from or the seal of which has been broken.
(Ord. of 5-18-1998(02))
