Chapter 9 - ELECTIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.

Sec. 9-1. - Board of municipal registrars.
A board of municipal registrars comprised of not less than three nor more than five members is hereby created. Members of said board shall be appointed by the mayor and council to serve for two-year terms or until their successors assume office. The mayor and council shall designate one of the registrars as chief registrar.
(Code 1981, § 8-2)
Sec. 9-2. - Election districts; polling place.
The area comprising the corporate limits of the city, as the same is now or shall hereafter exist, shall constitute the sole election district of the city. The polling place within the city shall be the city hall or some other location as determined by city council from time to time. The city clerk shall take such steps as may be necessary to notify voters of any polling place change as required by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-265 and shall conduct and administer any authorized election in accordance with the state election code and other applicable state law.
(Code 1981, § 8-3; Res. of 8-29-2013, § 3)
Sec. 9-3. - Election superintendent.
The mayor and city council may appoint an election superintendent who shall provide the necessary materials for conducting any city election, or, if it deems so appropriate, may contract with the county or another third party to conduct any such elections on the city's behalf. All elections shall be conducted and administered in accord with the Georgia Election Code and other applicable Georgia law.
(Code 1981, § 8-4)
Sec. 9-4. - Qualifications of candidates.
(a)
Candidates for the office of mayor or councilman must have been residents of said city for a period of at least one year immediately preceding the date upon which any candidate qualifies to run for said office. All candidates, for whatever office, shall qualify at least 15 days prior to the date on which the election is held, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by the mayor and council for the filling of any vacancies which might occur in said offices. Prior to the 15-day deadline specified above for the qualifications of candidates, announcement of the holding of elections must have been advertised in the official organ of the county for at least four weeks preceding such deadline.
(b)
Candidates for the office of mayor shall be elected by receiving a plurality of the votes cast. Candidates for city council shall also be elected by plurality vote.
(Code 1981, § 8-7)
Sec. 9-5. - Voting procedures.
In all city elections, the polls will be open and the election conducted in compliance with applicable provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.).
Sec. 9-6. - Absentee ballots.
The conduct and procedures to be followed by those electors qualified to vote by absentee ballots or those election officials having charge of the same shall be in complete accordance with the Georgia Municipal Election Code (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.) or any other provision of said code which may apply.
