ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Administrative policy and procedures.
(a)
Officers. Each officer shall perform all duties required of his office by state law, the Charter and this Code, and such other duties not in conflict therewith as may be required by the mayor.
(b)
Department heads. All department heads shall:
(1)
Be immediately responsible to the city manager, mayor and council for the effective administration of their respective department and all activities assigned thereto;
(2)
Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field and inaugurate, with the approval of the city manager, mayor and council, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the service and to the public;
(3)
Submit quarterly and annual reports of the activities of their respective department to the city manager, and the mayor and council;
(4)
Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of departmental activities and to form a basis for the periodic reports to the city manager, and the mayor and council;
(5)
Have power, when authorized by the city manager, and the mayor and council, to appoint and remove, subject to personnel regulations, all subordinates under them; and
(6)
Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all city property and equipment used in their respective departments.
(c)
Departments. Each department shall cooperate with the city manager, mayor and council and every other department and shall furnish, upon the direction of the city manager, mayor and council, any other department such service, labor and materials as may be requisitioned by the head of each department, as its own facilities permit.
(d)
Records. All municipal records, except those which by order of a court of this state or by law are prohibited from being open to public inspection, shall be open for personal inspection by any citizen of the state during the hours of operation of the administrative service hereinbelow prescribed.
(e)
Operation of administrative service. All units in the administrative service shall:
(1)
Be open between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on weekdays and shall be closed on Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays designated by the council.
(2)
Make a daily deposit with the city clerk of any monies received directly from the public.
(3)
Pay out monies belonging to the city only in the manner prescribed in this Code.
(Code 1985, § 2-2; Code 2006, § 2-1)
State Law reference— Inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70; public and legal holidays, O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1.
Sec. 2-2. - Oaths.
All officers and employees required by Charter or some other provision of law to take an oath shall, before entering upon the discharge of their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath before an officer authorized by law to administer oaths:
"I, ___________, do solemnly swear or affirm that I will support the Constitution of the United States, the constitution of the State of Georgia and the Charter and ordinances of the City of Hahira; and that I will, to the best of my ability, faithfully perform the duties of the office of _______ during my continuance therein, so help me God."
(Code 1985, § 2-3; Code 2006, § 2-2)
Sec. 2-3. - Bonds.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the mayor and council may require any department head, city official or employee, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, to give good and sufficient bond in any amount decided by the mayor and council. Said bond shall be payable to the city for the faithful performance of said duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures in office. Said surety bonds shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the state and approved by the mayor and council. The premiums thereon shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1985, § 2-4; Code 2006, § 2-3)
Sec. 2-4. - Compensation.
Each officer and employee of the city shall receive such compensation as may be provided from time to time by resolution.
(Code 1985, § 2-5; Code 2006, § 2-4)
State Law reference— Authority of governing body to fix compensation and benefits for employees and members of governing body, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Secs. 2-5—2-26. - Reserved.
