ARTICLE V. - FINANCE[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Constitution reference— Levy of taxes to pay bonds, sinking fund, art. IX, § 5, ¶ 6.
State Law reference— Bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-38-1 et seq., O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.; audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-421. - Acceptance of credit card payments.
All sums due the city, including, but not limited to, ad valorem taxes, occupation taxes, fines, forfeitures, penalties, license fees, permit fees and registration fees, may be paid by the use of credit cards.
(1)
The city finance director, with the approval of the city manager, shall establish the procedures for acceptance of credit card payments for amounts due the city. The city manager with approval of the mayor is authorized to enter into agreements with credit card issuers to facilitate the acceptance of credit card payments by the city.
(2)
A credit card agreement may provide for the acceptance of the credit card payments from the credit card company at a discount from the face amount of the payment or for the withholding of administrative fees from the face amount of the payment. Such discounted fee is granted in exchange for the improved governmental cash flow, reduction of administrative expenses and increased public convenience as a result of credit card payments.
(3)
Any agreement with a credit card issuer for the acceptance or payments via credit shall contain a provision that the agreement may be canceled at any time by the city.
(4)
No person making payment by credit card to the city is relieved from liability for the underlying obligation except to the extent that the city actually receives final payment of the obligation in cash or its equivalent. If final payment is not made by the credit card issuer or other guarantor of payment in the credit card transaction, the underlying obligation for the money due is not extinguished. All applicable penalties, interest and collection fees on the unpaid amount shall be due from the person making the payment by credit card.
(5)
Such penalties, interest and fees on an unpaid amount shall accrue from the date the unpaid obligation was first due under the applicable statute or ordinance. The city shall follow the collection procedures for the unpaid amount that would have otherwise been applicable had the credit card payment not been attempted.
(Code 2006, § 2-341; Ord. No. 04-10, § 1(2-91), 11-4-2004)
Secs. 2-422—2-440. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUDGET[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-441. - Fiscal year.
The city shall operate on a fiscal year which shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31.
(Code 1985, § 2-106; Code 2006, § 2-361)
State Law reference— Establishment of fiscal year, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-442. - Adoption of budget.
The city budget shall be introduced, approved, amended and adopted by ordinance passed by not less than a majority of the full membership of the city council. The procedure shall be as follows:
(1)
Introduction; approval. The city budget shall be introduced in writing by the mayor and council and shall be initially approved by September 30 of the fiscal year. Upon initial approval by the city council, the council shall fix the time and place for the holding of a public hearing.
(2)
Public advertisement. The city budget shall be advertised after approval. The advertisement shall set forth the date, the time and the place of the hearing. It shall be published at least ten days prior to the date fixed therefor in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the city.
(3)
Public hearing. The city budget shall not be adopted until a public hearing has been held thereon, and taxpayers and all persons having an interest therein shall have been given an opportunity to present objections. Such hearing shall be held not less than 21 days after the initial approval of the budget at the time and place specified in the advertisement thereof, and may be adjourned from time to time until the hearing is closed. The budget, as advertised, shall be read at the public hearing in full, or it may be read only by its title if at least one week prior to the date of the hearing a complete copy of the budget shall have been posted in the city hall and shall have been made available to each person requesting the same during the previous week and during the public hearing.
(4)
Amendments.
a.
The city council may amend the budget during or after the public hearing, except that no proposed amendment shall be effective without such a hearing if it shall:
1.
Add a new item of appropriation in an amount in excess of one percent of the total amount of appropriations as stated in the initially approved budget;
2.
Increase or decrease any item of appropriation by more than ten percent; or
3.
Increase the amount needed to be raised by taxes by more than five percent.
b.
Notice of hearing on any amendment shall be advertised at least three days before the date set therefor. Any such amendment must be read in full at the hearing and before adoption.
(5)
Adoption. The city budget shall be adopted by October 31 of the fiscal year. Upon adoption, the budget shall constitute an appropriation for the purposes stated therein and an authorization of the amount to be raised by taxation for the purposes of the city.
(Code 1985, § 2-107; Code 2006, § 2-362)
State Law reference— Preparation and adoption of budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5 et seq.
Sec. 2-443. - Budget message.
When introduced to the city council for approval, the city budget shall be accompanied by a budget message which shall explain the budget both in fiscal terms and in terms of the work programs. The budget message shall outline the proposed financial policies of the city for the ensuing fiscal year; describe the important features of the budget; indicate any major changes from the current year in financial policies, expenditures and revenues, together with the reasons for each change; summarize the city's debt position; and include such other material as will provide a complete synopsis of the financial condition of the city.
(Code 1985, § 2-108; Code 2006, § 2-363)
Sec. 2-444. - Form; content.
The city budget shall, at a minimum, provide for the appropriate legal level of control in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5. This does not preclude the governing authority from preparing a budget with a more detailed level of control for internal purposes.
(1)
The city budget shall include stated objectives and services to be provided, in a clear general summary of each department budget.
(2)
Each departmental budget shall include totals for each of the following categories:
a.
Salaries and wages.
b.
Supplies.
c.
Contract services.
d.
Capital outlays.
(3)
The general budget shall include designated sections for revenues, debt service and capital expenditures.
(4)
The total proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total of anticipated revenue.
(Code 1985, § 4-304; Code 2006, § 2-364; Ord. No. 04-05, § 1(2-109), 10-7-2004)
Sec. 2-445. - Capital program.
(a)
A five-year capital program may be submitted to the city council at the same time that the budget and budget message are introduced for approval. Such capital program shall include:
(1)
A clear general summary of its contents;
(2)
A list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be undertaken for the five fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for such improvements;
(3)
Cost estimates, method of financing and recommended time schedules for each such improvement; and
(4)
The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the facilities to be constructed or acquired.
(b)
The information in this section may be revised and extended each year with regard to capital improvements still pending or in process of construction or acquisition.
(Code 1985, § 2-110; Code 2006, § 2-365)
Sec. 2-446. - Transfer of appropriations.
The city clerk, city manager or accounting clerk may at any time during the fiscal year transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance among programs within a department or office with the approval of the mayor. Also, the city council may by ordinance transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance from one department or office to another, except that no appropriation for debt service or capital improvements may be reduced or transferred during any fiscal year, and under no circumstances may the expenditures exceed the total of the budget.
(Code 1985, § 2-111; Code 2006, § 2-366; Ord. No. 04-02, § 1(2-111), 3-9-2004)
Sec. 2-447. - Emergency appropriations.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, the city council may make emergency appropriations after the adoption of a budget, for a purpose which was not foreseen at the time of the adoption thereof, or for which adequate provision was not made therein. Such an appropriation shall be made only to meet a public emergency affecting life, health, safety, property or the public peace, and shall be made only out of actual unappropriated revenues or surplus. If there is no surplus, then temporary borrowing in notes may be made, provided that any such borrowed amounts are included as an appropriation in the next succeeding year's budget.
(Code 1985, § 2-112; Code 2006, § 2-367)
Sec. 2-448. - Lapse of appropriations.
Every appropriation, except an appropriation for a capital expenditure, shall lapse at the close of the next succeeding year to the extent that it has not been expended or encumbered. An appropriation for a capital expenditure shall continue in force until the purpose for which it was made has been accomplished or abandoned. The purpose of any such appropriation shall be deemed abandoned if three years pass without any disbursement from or encumbrance of the appropriation.
(Code 1985, § 2-113; Code 2006, § 2-368)
Secs. 2-449—2-479. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PURCHASING, SALES AND CONTRACTS

Sec. 2-480. - Purchasing generally.
Operating under the oversight of the mayor and city council and the supervision of the director of financial services, all purchases for the city shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the city financial management plan, any other requirements established by the mayor and city council, and any requirements contained in the laws of the state. If there is any conflict in such requirements, the laws of the state shall control.
(Code 2006, § 2-391)
Sec. 2-481. - Contracts for public works.
All contracts to build or repair any public building, bridge, causeway, road or other public work shall be let and contracted for in the manner prescribed by O.C.G.A. § 36-10-1 et seq.
(Code 2006, § 2-392)
Sec. 2-482. - Bidding procedures.
All purchases which are required to be made by competitive bidding shall be made in accordance with formal competitive bidding procedures as set forth in the city financial management plan and the laws of the state. Upon any conflict in the procedures in the city financial management plan and the laws of the state, the procedures set out in the laws of the state shall control.
(Code 2006, § 2-393)
Sec. 2-483. - Sale of surplus personal property.
The director of financial services shall have the authority to sell personal property of the city which has become unsuitable for use; provided, however, that surplus, unusable or obsolete supplies and equipment shall be sold only upon the adoption of a resolution by the mayor and city council specifying the manner in which such sale shall be conducted.
(Code 2006, § 2-394)
Sec. 2-484. - Sale of small parcels of surplus real property.
The city shall have the authority to sell and convey parcels of small or narrow strips of land, so shaped or so small as to be incapable of being used independently as zoned or under applicable subdivision or other development ordinances or land use plans, or as streets, whether owned in fee or used by easement, to abutting property owners upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Such sale and conveyance facilitates the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the purchaser's abutting property.
(2)
The property has been declared by the mayor and city council to be surplus real property.
(3)
Each owner of property which abuts the surplus property has been notified, at least 14 calendar days prior to such conveyance, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the surplus property is being offered for sale and is given the opportunity to purchase such property under the terms and conditions set out in this section.
(4)
The sale has been authorized by resolution of the mayor and city council.
(5)
Title to the surplus real property shall be conveyed by quit claim deed or limited warrant deed as the mayor and city council shall determine.
(6)
The purchase price shall be payable in cash at closing, which closing shall occur within 30 days of the approval of the sale by the mayor and city council.
(7)
The purchaser shall be responsible for payment of all costs associated with the purchase of the surplus property, including, but not limited to, any attorney's fees, surveyor's fees and recording fees in connection therewith.
(Code 2006, § 2-395)
Sec. 2-485. - City contracts.
(a)
Execution. Unless otherwise specified by a majority of the entire mayor and city council, the mayor, or in his absence the mayor pro tem, shall execute all contracts to be entered into by the city. The clerk or, in his absence any deputy clerk, may attest the signature of the mayor or mayor pro tem on any such contract.
(b)
Authorization. All contracts entered into by the mayor and city council shall be authorized as required by this article.
(Code 2006, § 2-396)
