APPENDIX II - EDUCATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Contributions for post-high school education, Division I, § 2.17; board of education, Div. I, § 5.61 et seq.
State Law reference— The Public School System, Ga. Code Ann., title 32, part II.

Section 201. - Merger of school systems.
Article VIII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution of Georgia be and the same is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof certain new paragraphs to read as follows:
"The existing independent school system of the City of Griffin and the existing school system in the County of Spalding outside the corporate limits of said City are hereby merged into one (1) school district coextensive with the limits of Spalding County, and the said existing independent school system of the City of Griffin and the school system of said County outside the corporate limits of said City of Griffin are hereby abolished. Said merged school systems and districts shall constitute a new school system and district and shall constitute a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, separate from the political entities of the City of Griffin and the County of Spalding and shall be known as the Griffin-Spalding County School System.
"The school system so created is authorized to incur bonded indebtedness for the purpose of constructing, erecting, enlarging, repairing and improving the necessary school buildings, and for acquiring the necessary property therefor.
"The said Griffin-Spalding County School System is hereby vested with the power to conduct a system of public education throughout the limits of said County, and with all powers and authority granted to public school systems and districts by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
"The administration of said Griffin-Spalding County School System shall be vested in a board to be known as the Griffin-Spalding County Board of Education. Said board shall have the power to employ and fix the salaries of any and all personnel necessary to effectuate the purposes of this amendment.
"The General Assembly shall have authority to create and establish districts within that portion of Spalding County, Georgia, lying within the corporate limits of the City of Griffin, and, likewise, within that portion of Spalding County lying outside the corporate limits of the City of Griffin from which the respective board members shall qualify for election, and shall have authority to provide for the number of such districts and to fix the boundaries thereof, and to fix the time, place, and method of electing such members and the method of filling vacancies on said board. The General Assembly shall fix and stagger the terms of office of such members for any period not exceeding four (4) years.
"The General Assembly is authorized to pass such laws and legislation as may be necessary to the operation, conduct and control of said Griffin-Spalding County School System and its fiscal affairs, including the right and authority to create indebtedness, not in conflict with the Constitution of Georgia, and to enable said Griffin-Spalding County School System to contract, and be contracted with, and to do all and every act or acts necessary for the proper maintenance of a comprehensive school system throughout the limits of Spalding County, and to effectuate the purposes of this amendment.
"The General Assembly may authorize the City of Griffin and the County of Spalding to appropriate money from their general funds to the said Board of Education for educational purposes and may grant unto said board of education all the powers of eminent domain with all the remedies to execute such powers provided by any other laws of Georgia.
"The property of the independent school system of the City of Griffin and the property of the Spalding County School District outside the corporate limits of the City of Griffin shall become the property of the Griffin-Spalding County School System as of the effective date of this amendment.
"The specification of certain powers herein is not intended to be exclusive, it being the intention hereof that all powers granted herein are to be liberally construed so as to effectuate the general purpose of establishing and maintaining a comprehensive system of public education throughout the limits of Spalding County." (1952 Ga. Laws, p. 554, § 2)
Section 202. - Superintendent of school system.
Article VIII, Section VI, Paragraph I of the Constitution of Georgia be and the same is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following provision, to wit:
"From and after the effective date of this amendment, the Superintendent of the Griffin-Spalding County School System shall be selected or chosen by the Board of Education of the Griffin-Spalding County School System. Said superintendent shall hold his office at the pleasure of said board of education, his salary shall be fixed by said board, and he shall have such qualifications as may be fixed by law. The General Assembly may, by local Act, change, alter and prescribe the qualifications of said superintendent." (1952 Ga. Laws, § 554, § 3)
Secs. 203—209. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 1982 Ga. Laws, p. 2680, a portion of § 1 included herein as § 5.61 of Div. I, provided that 1972 Ga. Laws, p. 2418, shall be void and of no force and effect; therefore, §§ 203—209 which pertained to the board of education and were derived from §§ 2—8 of said 1972 Ga. Laws, p. 2418, have been deleted.
Section 210. - Oath, compensation.
Each member of the board of education, upon assuming his office, shall take an oath faithfully to perform the duties of his office as such member. Compensation paid to members of said Griffin-Spalding County Board of Education shall be only that now or hereafter provided for members of county boards of education by the general laws of Georgia. (1972 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., p. 2563, § 9)
Section 211. - Meetings; officers.
The Griffin-Spalding County Board of Education is hereby authorized to provide for the holding of such meetings, regular or special, as it may see fit, and to make provision for the time, place, and manner of calling and holding the same. It shall, at the first board meeting in each calendar year, select a chairman and vice-chairman, secretary and treasurer and said board may select and designate such other officers as it deems necessary to the administration of its duties and the administration of said school system. Said chairman and vice-chairman and other officers, shall hold office until the last meeting in the year for which elected and until their successors are elected. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., p. 2563, § 10)
Section 212. - Official seal.
Said board of education may adopt an official seal, for use when necessary, the wording on said seal to read: "Griffin-Spalding County School System. Created 1952." (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., p. 2563, § 11)
Section 213. - Personnel.
The Griffin-Spalding County Board of Education shall have the power to employ and fix the salaries of any and all personnel necessary to effectuate the proper administration of said school system, including a superintendent of education for said system. The duties of the superintendent of education shall be the same as those of county superintendents of schools under the general laws of Georgia, but such duties may be decreased, increased, or otherwise modified by action of said board. The duties of any other personnel appointed by said board shall be such as the board may designate, and in the absence of such designation shall be the same as the duties of their respective classes under the general laws of Georgia. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 12)
Section 214. - Contracts.
Said board of education may enter into written contracts with teachers and other personnel of said system, and into contracts for transportation of pupils, but none of such contracts shall be made for a longer period than twelve (12) months; except that said board may enter into a written contract with a superintendent of education for any period not exceeding four (4) years. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 13)
Section 215. - Indebtedness.
All contracts, bonds and other evidence of indebtedness entered into or issued or incurred by said board shall be signed on behalf of the board by the chairman (and in his absence by the vice-chairman) and attested by the secretary, or any other officer designated by the board; except that contracts with teachers and other personnel shall, when so authorized by the board, be executed by the superintendent of education alone, and that contracts for supplies, labor and repairs may be made on behalf of the board by the superintendent alone where the expenditure involved for any one (1) commitment does not exceed such amount as may from time to time be fixed by the board. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 14)
Section 216. - Disbursements of funds.
All disbursements of funds of said school system shall be by check signed by the treasurer of said board, and in the case of the absence or disability of the treasurer, by such other person as the board may designate. In the discretion of said board, the superintendent of education may be designated as treasurer, with such bond for the performance of his duties as such as the board may fix. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 15)
Section 217. - Workmen's compensation.
The board of education is authorized, in its discretion, to make the Griffin-Spalding School System and its employees subject to the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Law of said State of Georgia in the same manner as said Workmen's Compensation Law now or hereafter applies to municipal corporations and their employees. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 16)
Section 218. - Tax procedures.
For the purpose of providing funds for the said Griffin-Spalding County School System, returns for taxation of all property in said County of Spalding liable for taxation shall be made to the same officials, County and State, as in case of returns of taxes for County and State purposes, and the same provisions, as to time, method and officials and boards in which powers are vested under the laws of Georgia relating to State and County taxes, shall be applicable to taxation for any of the purposes of said school system, including the time, place and manner of assessments, payment and collection of taxes, date, rank and fixation of tax liens, issuance and levy of executions, affidavits of illegality and other defenses, and all other methods and provisions provided under the laws of Georgia with respect to such taxation.
The Board of Education of said Griffin-Spalding County School System shall annually, within the time required by law, recommend to the Commissioner of Spalding County the rate of the levy necessary to be made for taxes for the support and maintenance of said school system; and said Commissioners shall levy a tax, to the extent now or hereafter permitted by the Constitution and laws of Georgia, as recommended by said board.
All liens for school taxes unpaid at the effective date of this Act, whether arising for the benefit of the heretofore existing independent school system of the City of Griffin or for the benefit of the existing school district in Spalding County outside the corporate limits of Griffin, shall remain of full force and effect and all powers provided for the enforcement thereof shall also remain of full force and effect. All such unpaid school taxes shall accrue to the benefit of said Griffin-Spalding County School System. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 17)
Section 219. - Temporary loans.
In addition to obligations allowed to be incurred by the provisions of the aforesaid Constitutional amendments and the general and special laws of Georgia, authority is hereby given to the said board of education to make temporary loans in each year for the benefit of said school system, for its support and maintenance, the temporary loans to be made between January first (1st) and December thirty-first (31st) in each year to pay the expenses of said support and maintenance for such year.
The aggregate amount of temporary loans outstanding at any one (1) time shall not exceed the total gross income of said Griffin-Spalding County School System from all sources during the preceding calendar year.
Any such loan shall be payable on or before December thirty-first (31 st) of the calendar year in which made, and no loan may be made in any year when there is a loan then unpaid which was made in a prior year.
Any person, firm or corporation making temporary loans to said school system may rely exclusively upon the resolution of said board of education authorizing said loan so far as concerns compliance with all requirements of law of said loan or loans. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 18)
Section 220. - Bonds.
Said Griffin-Spalding County School System is hereby authorized to incur bonded indebtedness, and to issue bonds and evidences of indebtedness, for the purpose of constructing, erecting, enlarging, repairing and improving the necessary school buildings and related facilities, for school, education and physical development aid for acquiring the necessary property therefor, and paying expenses incident thereto. The authorization and issuance of any such bonds, shall except as otherwise required by law or provided herein be in the manner heretofore applicable with respect to the issuance of similar bonds by the Commissioners of Spalding County for school purposes. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 19)
Section 221. - Eminent domain.
Said board of education is hereby granted all the powers of eminent domain necessary to the proper administration of said school system, with all the remedies to execute such powers provided by any other laws of Georgia. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 20)
Section 222. - Appropriations and donations.
The City of Griffin and the County of Spalding are hereby authorized to appropriate money from their general funds to the said board of education for educational purposes, and said board of education is hereby authorized to accept and expend for such purposes any moneys so appropriated and also any moneys or property donated to said board by any other person, firm or corporation. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 21)
Section 223. - Disposal of property.
Any property of said Griffin-Spalding County School System which, in the opinion of said board of education, is no longer suitable for its purpose may be sold, exchanged or otherwise disposed of in such manner as the board may deem fit, at its fair market value, and the proceeds used exclusively for school purposes. Public notice of any such decision of said board to sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of such property shall be given by publication thereof in the official organ of Spalding County, Georgia, for five (5) consecutive (excluding Sunday) issues thereof, and any qualified elector or other interested person may, within said five-day period, appeal said decision to the Superior Court of Spalding County, Georgia, by filing written notice of appeal with the secretary or any member of said board, and the disposition of said appeal shall be in the same manner as provided for appeals to the superior court from judgments of justices of the peace. Provided, however, that no such public notice shall be given when the property involved is personal property. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 22)
Section 224. - Teachers retirement system.
Said Griffin-Spalding County School System and teachers employed by it shall be subject and entitled to the provisions of the teachers retirement system of said State of Georgia as now established and as may hereafter be amended. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 23)
Section 225. - Application of laws.
Except as otherwise provided in this Act and the aforesaid constitutional amendments, the said Griffin-Spalding County School System and said board of education shall be subject to, and shall have and enjoy all the rights, benefits and privileges granted by, the laws of the State of Georgia, and its Constitution, applicable to County school systems and County Boards of education. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 24)
Section 226. - Repeal of laws.
All parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed where they would limit the powers herein granted: but laws and parts of laws which, while differing from the provisions of this Act, yet add to rather than take from the powers herein granted, are not repealed hereby. (1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., 2563, Sec. 26)
