Part VII - COURTS
CHAPTER 1. - SUPERIOR COURT

Sec. 7.1. - Judicial circuit—Created.
There is created and shall exist in Georgia, a new judicial circuit, to be known as "Griffin Judicial Circuit," and to be composed of the Counties of Spalding, Pike, Upson and Fayette. (1923 Ga. Laws, p. 68, § 1)
Sec. 7.2. - Same—Sessions; grand juries.
Times of holding court in the Griffin Judicial Circuit. The superior courts in the several counties composing the Griffin Judicial Circuit, shall begin and hold regular terms of court, as follows:
(a)
Spalding County: On the first Mondays in February, June, and October.
(b)
Fayette County: On the first Monday in March and the second Monday in September.
(c)
Upson County: On the third Mondays in March and August, and on the first Mondays in November.
(d)
Pike County: On the third Mondays in April and November.
Civil cases shall be called for trial or announcement as to status beginning on the first day of each term, and that part of the first and second weeks of each regular term required for the trial and disposition of pending civil matters shall be devoted thereto. Criminal cases and matters related thereto shall be called for trial and/or hearings beginning on the first court day of the third week of each regular term and each criminal session shall then continue for such parts of said third week and for such part of the fourth week of each regular term of court as may be necessary for the disposition of pending criminal matters; provided, however, arraignments shall be held on the first day of the second week on said term. Adjourned and special terms of court may be called as needed, in the discretion of the chief judge of the circuit, as provided by law.
There shall be at the spring and fall terms of said several courts a grand jury chosen, empaneled and sworn, which shall serve as such as provided by law, but at the intermediate or summer terms of said courts, there shall be no grand jury, unless, in the opinion of the chief judge of said courts, it is expedient or necessary to have a grand jury, in which event, he may, in his discretion, either draw a grand jury for service at such terms, or require the last preceding grand jury to attend and serve as such. (1923 Ga. Laws, p. 68, § 2; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 1481, § 1)
Sec. 7.3. - Supplements to compensation.
(a)
The governing authorities of the counties comprising the Griffin Judicial Circuit are authorized to provide from county funds supplements to the compensation of each judge of superior court as follows:
Years of Service
Supplement
Less than 5 .....$ 10,000.00
At least 5 but less than 8 .....12,000.00
At least 8 but less than 12 .....14,000.00
At least 12 but less than 16 .....16,000.00
16 or more .....18,000.00
(b)
The term "judge" is defined as being the chief judge of the circuit, an associate judge of the circuit, or a senior judge of the superior courts of Georgia whose status is achieved by reason of service in said circuit, and who continues to be available for service to the courts of said circuit; however, the supplement of a senior judge shall be equivalent to, but shall not exceed, the amount of the supplement authorized in O.C.G.A. § 47-8-62.
(c)
The amount of supplement for the district attorney shall be seventy-five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) per annum. Said amounts of supplements for the judges and district attorney shall be paid monthly by the counties comprising the Griffin Judicial Circuit in proportion to and prorated according to the population of said counties, as shown by the latest official United States decennial census, out of the treasuries of such counties comprising said circuit.
(d)
It shall be the duty of the governing authorities of each such county to provide by taxation, or otherwise, sufficient funds to pay the portion of said salary supplement assessed against each of said counties, and to pay the same as provided in this act. The salary supplement of each judge and district attorney is made and declared to be a part of the expenses of the courts, and the power to levy a tax to pay the same is delegated to said county governing authorities. (1923 Ga. Laws, p. 68, § 6A; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 879, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 386, § 1; 1990 Ga. Laws, p. 4459, § 1)
Sec. 7.4. - Judge's secretary.
(a)
Each superior court judge is authorized to employ a secretary. Each secretary so employed shall be an employee of the judicial branch of state government and shall be in the unclassified service of the state merit system of personnel administration.
(b)
Secretaries employed pursuant to this section shall serve at the pleasure of the superior court judge who employed them and shall perform such duties and assignments as shall be prescribed by the superior court judge.
(c)
(1) The base annual salary of each secretary shall be established on a pay schedule beginning at Step 1, which shall be thirteen thousand nine hundred fifty-six dollars ($13,956.00) annually, and ending at Step 6, which shall be eighteen thousand seven hundred three dollars ($18,703.00) annually. Each step within said schedule shall be equal to an amount five (5) percent greater than the previous step.
(2)
Each step on said pay schedule to be paid from state funds shall be increased in the same manner, effective on the same date, as may be appropriated for any across-the-board increase for members of the classified service of the state merit system of personnel administration that occurs after June 30, 1985.
(3)
Each superior court judge may grant to each secretary a merit increase equal to one (1) step on the pay schedule, or any revised pay schedule resulting from an across-the-board increase, upon completion of one (1) year of service under this schedule or at any time not less than twelve (12) months since the last merit increase under this or any previously existing laws or at any time not less than twelve (12) months since the employees' original date of continuous employment if no merit increase has been granted under previously existing laws.
(4)
Each secretary employed on July 1, 1985, shall be placed upon the appropriate step of the pay schedule so as to give credit for previous merit increases received through July 1, 1985.
(5)
Each new secretary appointed after July 1, 1985, shall be placed on Step 1 of the pay schedule in effect on the date of appointment; provided, however, that a secretary employee under O.C.G.A. section 15-18-17, authorizing the employment of district attorney's secretaries, may transfer to this pay schedule upon appointment as a secretary to a judge of the superior court at the step equal to the current salary being received if no interruption in state employment occurs as a result of the appointment.
(d)
The compensation of each secretary shall be paid in equal monthly installments from state funds appropriated or otherwise available for the operation of the superior courts.
(e)
In addition to the salary paid to each secretary, any employer's contribution required by the act of Congress, approved August 14, 1935, 49 Stat. 620, known as the Social Security Act, as the same may now or hereafter be amended, or by any regulations or requirements issued pursuant thereto, shall also be paid from funds appropriated or otherwise made available for the operation of the superior courts. (1982 Ga. Laws, 1486, § 3; 1985 Ga. Laws, p. 434, § 1)
Editor's note— Pursuant to instructions from the city, former § 7.4, which pertained to the judge's secretary and was derived from 1969 Ga. Laws, p. 497, has been deleted as having been superseded by the provisions of 1982 Ga. Laws, 1486, § 3 included herein as a new § 7.4.
Sec. 7.5. - Court reporter—Fees.
An act creating a judicial council of the State of Georgia, approved April 3, 1973 (Ga. L. 1973, 288), is hereby amended by adding a new section to be known as section 2A, which shall read as follows:
"Section 2A. (a) The judicial council of the State of Georgia shall promulgate rules and regulations which shall:
(i)
Provide for and set the fees to be charged by all official court reporters in this State for attending court, taking stenographic notes and recording the evidence.
(ii)
For furnishing transcripts of the evidence, and for other proceedings furnished by the official court reporter in all civil and criminal cases in this State;
(iii)
Provide for a minimum per diem fee, which fee may be supplemented by the various counties within the circuits to which such fees may be supplemented by the various court reporters are assigned;
(iv)
Provide for the form and style of the transcripts which shall be uniform throughout the State.
(b)
The judicial council of the State of Georgia shall amend its rules and regulations providing for and setting the fees to be charged by all official court reporters whenever the judicial council of the State of Georgia shall deem it necessary and proper."
This act shall not apply to those court reporters taking and furnishing transcripts of depositions, nor for taking and furnishing transcripts of nonjudicial functions nor to any independent contracts of any reporters. (1975 Ga. Laws, p. 852, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— Pursuant to instructions from the city, former § 7.5, which pertained to compensation of the court reporter and was derived from 1971 Ga. Laws, p. 523, § 1, has been deleted as having been superseded by 1975 Ga. Laws, p. 852, §§ 1, 2, included herein as a new § 7.5.
Sec. 7.6. - Same—Duties.
The appointment, removal, oath of office, and duties of the court reporter shall be the same as now provided in Code section 24-3101, except that it shall be the duty of the reporter, when directed by the judge of the circuit, to take down and transcribe the testimony in coroner's inquest, and commitment hearings of capital felonies. (1952 Ga. Laws, p. 107, § 3)
Sec. 7.7. - Additional judge.
(a)
Effective July 1, 1987, a new judge is added to the Griffin Judicial Circuit. The initial judge added by this act shall be appointed by the governor to take office on July 1, 1987, for a term expiring on December 31, 1988. A successor to the initial judge appointed by the governor shall be elected in the manner provided by law for the election of judges of the superior courts at the general election of 1988 to take office on January 1, 1989, for a term of four (4) years and until a successor is elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be elected in the manner provided by law for the election of superior court judges at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office to take office on the first day of January immediately following the election for a term of four (4) years and until a successor is elected and qualified.
(b)
The additional judge of the Griffin Judicial Circuit provided for by this act shall have and may exercise all powers, duties, dignity, jurisdiction, privileges and immunities of other judges of the superior courts of this state. Any of the judges of the superior court of said circuit may preside over any case therein and perform any official act as a judge thereof.
(c)
The compensation, salary and contingent expense allowance of said additional judge shall be the same as the other judges of the Griffin Judicial Circuit. Said additional judge shall receive the same salary supplement from county funds which is received by each of the other judges of the Griffin Judicial Circuit.
(d)
Upon and after qualification of the additional judge of the superior court for the Griffin Judicial Circuit of Georgia, the three (3) judges of said court shall be authorized to adopt, promulgate, amend and enforce such rules of procedure in consonance with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia as they deem suitable and proper for the effective transaction of business of the court; and in transacting the business of the court and in performing their duties and responsibilities, they shall divide and allocate the work and duties to be performed by each. In the event of a disagreement among said judges affecting the duties and responsibilities of the judges of the superior court for the Griffin Judicial Circuit, the decision of the senior judge in terms of current, continuous, uninterrupted service shall be controlling.
(e)
The drawing and impaneling of all jurors, whether grand, petit or special, may be by any of the judges of the superior courts of said circuit, and they, or any of them, shall have full power and authority to draw and impanel jurors for service in said courts so as to have jurors for the trial of cases before any of said judges separately or before all of them at the same time.
(f)
Upon request of any of the judges, the governing authorities of the counties comprising the Griffin Judicial Circuit are authorized to furnish the judges of said court with suitable courtroom facilities, office space, telephone, furniture, office equipment, supplies and such personnel as may be considered necessary to the proper functioning of the court. All of the expenditures authorized in this section are declared to be an expense of court and payable out of the county treasury.
(g)
The judge of said court, senior in terms of current, uninterrupted service, as a paid court in whom shall be vested the power to make all appointments whenever the law provides for the superior court judge to make appointments, except as otherwise provided in this act.
(h)
Nothing enumerated in this act shall be deemed to limit or restrict the inherent powers, duties and responsibilities of superior court judges provided by the Constitution and statutes of the State of Georgia.
(i)
Section 15-6-2 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to the number of superior court judges for each judicial circuit, is amended by striking paragraph (19) in its entirety and inserting in lieu thereof a new paragraph (19) to read as follows:
"(19) Griffin Circuit .....3"
(1987 Ga. Laws, p. 279, §§ 1-9)
Editor's note— Sections 1-9 of 1987 Ga. Laws, p. 279, have been included as § 7.7 at the discretion of the editor.
CHAPTER 2. - STATE COURT

Sec. 7.11. - Court established.
The state court of Spalding County is established, to be organized, located and held in the courthouse in the city of Griffin, in Spalding County, Georgia, with jurisdiction, civil and criminal, over the entire County of Spalding. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 1)
Sec. 7.12. - Court of record.
The state court of Spalding County shall be a court of record, and shall have a seal, and the minutes, records, dockets and other books and files that are required by law to be kept for the superior court, shall be kept in and for said state court, and in the same manner, and all laws applicable to the duties of the clerk and sheriff in the superior courts shall apply to them in said state court, except where they conflict with the provisions of this act. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 2)
Sec. 7.13. - Judge.
The state court of Spalding County shall have one (1) judge, who shall be a part-time judge, as defined by the pertinent laws of Georgia, and who may engage in the private practice of law in other courts but may not practice in his own court or appear in any manner as to which he, or anyone serving in his absence as judge of the state court of Spalding County, has exercised any jurisdiction. The judge of said court shall have the qualifications and may exercise all of the powers and authority and perform the duties now or hereafter provided by law for the judge of said court. Judges of such court shall be elected by the qualified electors of Spalding County on a nonpartisan basis, as provided by law, and shall serve for a term of four (4) years. The current four-year term of office of the judge of said court shall expire on December 31, 1988. Vacancies for any reason, except the expiration of the term of office, shall be filled as provided by law. Effective July 1, 1987, the judge of the state court of Spalding County shall be compensated from the funds of Spalding County at the annual rate of twenty-seven thousand dollars ($27,000.00), which salary shall be apportioned and payable for the last half of the year 1987 and for all subsequent years at said annual rate from the funds of Spalding County. Such salary shall be payable, as accrued, in equal monthly installments on the last day of each month. The governing authority of Spalding County is authorized to supplement, from time to time, the compensation fixed in this section to be paid to the judge of said court. In all cases hereafter in which there is a conflict between this section and the general laws of the State of Georgia providing for state courts, the general laws shall take priority over the provisions of this section and shall control. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 3; 1974 Ga. Laws, p. 2047, § 3; 1979 Ga. Laws, p. 4301; 1981 Ga. Laws, p. 4131, § 1; 1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4201, § 1; 1987 Ga. Laws, p. 4527, § 1)
Sec. 7.14. - Secretary assistance for judge and solicitor.
The board of commissioners of Spalding County is hereby authorized to pay monthly out of the treasury of Spalding County to the judge and the solicitor of the state court of Spalding County an amount to be determined in the discretion of the board of commissioners, to be used by the judge and solicitor for secretarial assistance in the performance of the duties of the respective offices of the judge and solicitor of said court. (1974 Ga. Laws, p. 2047, § 3A)
Sec. 7.15. - Judge's qualifications and oath.
Any person who shall be elected judge of said court, must at the time of said election, be at least twenty-seven (27) years of age; he must have been a resident of Spalding County for at least four (4) years immediately preceding his election, and must also have been a practicing attorney at least five (5) years before his election; and before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office must take and subscribe the following oath, "I do solemnly swear that I will administer justice without respect to persons and do equal rights to the poor and the rich and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all duties which may be required of me as judge of the state court of Spalding County according to the best of my ability and understanding according to the laws and constitution of this State and the United States; so help me God." And said oath shall be forwarded to the governor and be filed in the executive department. The said judge may practice law elsewhere than in Spalding County without limitation, and in cases in the probate court; and in civil cases originating in superior court of said county; and in cases over which the superior court has, or may have, exclusive original or appellate jurisdiction. (1912 Ga. Laws, p. 235, § 1)
Sec. 7.16. - Compensation of clerk.
The clerk of said court shall receive the same fees for services rendered in criminal cases as are now paid to the clerks of superior courts for similar services. (1912 Ga. Laws, p. 235, § 2)
Sec. 7.17. - Solicitor.
The state court of Spalding County shall have one (1) solicitor, who shall be a part-time solicitor, as defined by the pertinent laws of Georgia, and who may engage in the private practice of law in other courts but may not practice in his own court or appear in any manner as to which he, or anyone serving in his absence as solicitor of the state court of Spalding County, has exercised a jurisdiction. The solicitor of said court shall have the qualifications and may exercise all of the powers and authority and perform the duties now or hereafter provided by law for the solicitor of said court. Solicitors of such court shall be elected by the qualified electors of Spalding County on a nonpartisan basis, as provided by law, and shall serve for a term of four (4) years. The current four-year term of office of the solicitor of said court shall expire on December 31, 1990. Vacancies for any reason, except the expiration of the term of office, shall be filled as provided by law. Effective July 1, 1987, the solicitor of the state court of Spalding County shall be compensated from the funds of Spalding County at the annual rate of twenty-two thousand dollars ($22,000.00), which salary shall be apportioned and payable for the last half of the year 1987 and for all subsequent years at said annual rate from the funds of Spalding County. Such salary shall be payable, as accrued, in equal monthly installments on the last day of each month. The governing authority of Spalding County is authorized to supplement, from time to time, the compensation fixed in this section to be paid to the solicitor of said court. In all cases hereafter in which there is a conflict between this section and the general laws of the State of Georgia providing for state courts, the general laws shall take priority over the provisions of this section and shall control. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 5; 1974 Ga. Laws, p. 2047, § 5; 1979 Ga. Laws, p. 4301; 1981 Ga. Laws, p. 4131, § 1; 1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4201, § 2; 1987 Ga. Laws, p. 4527, § 2)
Sec. 7.18. - Clerk.
The clerk of the superior court of Spalding County shall be ex officio clerk of said state court. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 6)
Sec. 7.19. - Sheriff.
The sheriff of Spalding County, by virtue of his office, shall be sheriff of the state court of Spalding County. He shall have power with the consent of the judge of said court to appoint deputies who shall, before entering upon the duties of the office, give a bond in the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), conditioned as the bond of other deputy sheriffs. Said sheriff shall receive the same fee as now allowed, or may be hereafter allowed by law to the sheriff of Spalding County, except as herein provided, and for his attendance at the regular term of said court he shall receive two dollars ($2.00) per day, to be paid him in the manner as now, or may be hereafter provided for similar service in the superior court of Spalding County. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 7)
Sec. 7.20. - Bailiffs.
The judge of the state court of Spalding County may appoint and require the service of bailiffs and exercise the same authority over the clerk, sheriff, deputy sheriff and bailiffs of said court as may be exercised by the judges of the superior courts over such officers while holding superior court. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 8)
Sec. 7.21. - Jurisdiction.
The state court of Spalding County shall have jurisdiction to try and dispose of all cases of whatever nature, except those cases over which exclusive jurisdiction is vested in other courts by the Constitution and laws of Georgia, except when the amount claimed is less than fifty dollars ($50.00); provided, that in all cases brought in said state court for the principal sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00), or less, the defendant shall not be liable to pay more than justice court cost. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 9)
Sec. 7.22. - Criminal cases.
The state court of Spalding County shall have jurisdiction to try and dispose of all criminal cases for all offenses committed in the County of Spalding, where the offender is not subject to loss of life or confinement in the penitentiary. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 10)
Sec. 7.23 - Authority of judge and officers.
The judge of the state court of Spalding County shall have authority to issue criminal warrants, warrants to dispossess tenants holding over, and intruders; to issue distress warrants, to issue attachments and garnishments, to attest deeds and other papers, and to take affidavits anywhere in this state: and the judge, solicitor, clerk and sheriff, and his deputy shall have power to administer all oaths and do all other official acts pertaining to their office respectively as such officers of the superior court may in like cases do. Said judge shall also have the power to issue writs of habeas corpus and hear and determine the same as the judges of the superior courts may do; to cause testimony to be taken to be used de bene esse, and for the purpose of perpetuating testimony within his jurisdiction, and generally do all acts which the judge of the superior courts of this state are authorized and required to do, unless otherwise provided in this Act. And the said judge of the state court of Spalding County shall have all power and authority throughout his jurisdiction of judges of the superior courts, except where by law the exclusive power and authority is vested in the judges of the superior courts, and all laws relating to and governing judges of the superior courts shall apply to the judges of the said state court, so far as the same may be applicable, except as herein provided. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 11)
Sec. 7.24. - Claims.
Said court shall have jurisdiction of all claim cases where personal property is levied upon under process from said court, which claims shall be tried in the same manner as claims in the superior courts, except that the pleadings in the case shall make the issue, and it shall be unnecessary for the parties to tender and join issue in claim cases as is the practice in other courts. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 12)
Sec. 7.25 - Attachments and garnishments.
All laws upon the subject of attachments and garnishments in the superior courts of this state shall apply to the said state court so far as the nature of the state court will admit. The judge of the state court or any other officer authorized to issue attachments may issue attachments returnable to the state court of Spalding County, shall be directed to all and singular the sheriffs and constables of this state, and may be served by them or any sheriff or constable or other officer authorized by law to levy attachments returnable to other courts. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 13)
Sec. 7.26. - Garnishment proceedings.
The garnishment proceedings in said state court shall be conformable to the laws of the state on state court of like character with this, shall be returnable to the superior court of such county. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 14)
Sec. 7.27. - Contempt.
The judge of the state court shall have the power to enforce his orders, to preserve order, to punish for contempt and to enforce all his judgments as vested by law in the judges of the superior courts of this state. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 15)
Sec. 7.28. - Civil cases.
The judge of the state court shall have power and authority to hear and determine all civil cases of which said court has jurisdiction, and to give judgment therein in term time without a jury; provided, that either party in any civil case pending in said court shall be entitled to a trial by jury in said court upon entering a demand therefor, by himself or his attorney, in writing, at any time during the appearance term of said case, in all cases in which said party may be entitled to a trial by jury under the Constitution and laws of this state. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 16)
Sec. 7.29. - Terms.
The terms of State Court of Spalding County shall be identical to the terms of the Spalding County Superior Court as set out in O.C.G.A. § 15-6-3. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 17; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3441, § 1; 1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3048, § 1)
Editor's note— Res. No. A-19-13, adopted Aug. 5, 2019, amended § 7.29 to read as set out herein.
Sec. 7.30. - Procedures.
Suits in said state court shall in all respects be conformable to the mode of proceeding in the superior courts, except as hereinafter provided; but the process to writs shall be annexed by the clerk of the said state court, shall be attested in the name of the judge thereof, and be directed to the sheriff and his lawful deputies, and all executions issuing from said court shall be attested in the name of the judge and signed by the clerk and directed to all and singular the sheriffs and their deputies of the State of Georgia. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 18)
Sec. 7.31. - Pleading and practice.
In all matters pertaining to service and pleading and practice, the laws governing the superior courts, where not inconsistent with this act, and unless otherwise specially provided by this act, shall be applicable to said state court. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 19)
Sec. 7.32. - General law applicable.
The general laws of the state applicable to the superior courts with regard to the commencement of suits, and making parties to cases pending, defenses, set-offs, affidavits of illegality, arbitration, examination of witnesses by interrogatories or to subpoena witnesses and to require them to attend and give evidence, continuances and amendments, and all matters pertaining to pleading and practice and all matters of a judicial nature within the jurisdiction of the said state court, shall be applicable to said state court. (1897 Ga. Laws, 462, § 20)
Sec. 7.33. - Enforcement of judgments.
All laws regulating the enforcement of judgments of the superior courts, whether civil or criminal, shall apply to said state court, and executions shall issue and be levied and sales be had thereunder, under the same rules and laws regulating the same in the superior courts. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 21)
Sec. 7.34. - Accusations.
Defendants in criminal cases in the state court of Spalding County may be tried upon written accusation, setting forth plainly the offense charged, which accusation shall be signed by the prosecutor or by the prosecuting officer of the said state court. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 22)
Sec. 7.35. - Demand for jury.
When any criminal case in said state court founded either upon indictment or presentment by the grand jury, or upon an accusation in said state court, is called for trial, and before the arraignment of the defendant, the judge shall inquire of defendant whether he demands a jury and the response of defendant shall be entered upon said indictment or accusation and signed by the prosecuting officer of said court. If the defendant demands a trial by jury and the court is not sitting at a regular term, the judge shall admit the defendant to bail to appear at the next regular term, or on the defendant's failure to give bond, shall commit him to jail to await his trial at a regular term. If the defendant waives trial by jury, then the judge of said court shall proceed to hear and determine such criminal case without a jury; provided, always, that a reasonable time may be granted the state or defendant to procure witnesses. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 23)
Sec. 7.36. - Misdemeanors.
The judges of the superior court of Spalding County may transfer any or all presentments or bills of indictment for misdemeanors to said state court for trial, the order so transferring the same to be entered upon the minutes of both courts. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 24)
Sec. 7.37. - Juries—Procurement; payment.
Traverse juries in the state court of Spalding County shall be procured, drawn, summoned, and paid pursuant to the same laws which apply to said matters in superior courts except as specifically provided otherwise in this act. The judge shall be the same power to summon tales jurors as do the judges of superior courts. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 25; 1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3048, § 2)
Sec. 7.38. - Same—Right to trial by jury; criminal cases; civil cases.
(a)
All cases, both civil and criminal, over which the court has jurisdiction, shall be tried by the judge without a jury unless one (1) party to the case shall demand, in writing, a trial by jury as to civil cases at the time of filing the suit or when defensive pleadings are filed, and, in criminal cases, at the time of pleading to the accusation.
(b)
The jury in criminal cases shall consist of six (6) jurors to be stricken alternately by the state and the defendant, from a panel of twelve (12) qualified, prospective jurors. The state shall be entitled to three (3) peremptory strikes, and the defendant shall be entitled to three (3) peremptory strikes. The state shall be entitled to the first such strike, and the defendant shall be entitled to the last such strike, and the six (6) remaining jurors shall compose the jury for the trial of the case.
(c)
The jury in civil cases shall consist of six (6) jurors to be stricken alternately by the plaintiff and the defendant, from a panel of twelve (12) qualified, prospective jurors. The plaintiff shall be entitled to three (3) peremptory strikes, and the defendant shall be entitled to three (3) peremptory strikes. The plaintiff shall be entitled to the first such strike, and the defendant shall be entitled to the last such strike. The six (6) remaining jurors shall compose the jury for the trial of the case. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 26; 1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3048, § 2)
Sec. 7.39. - Trials.
All civil cases pending in said court in which a jury is demanded by either, and all criminal cases in which the defendant shall demand a jury, as provided for in this act, a trial shall be had in term time under the provisions of this act, by a jury of twelve (12) men, as in the superior courts. All civil cases in which no jury is demanded shall be tried by the court in term time, and all criminal cases in which no jury is demanded by the defendant shall be tried by the court either in term time or at any time between the regular terms of said court, and said court shall be open for the trial of such criminal cases at all times. (1897 Ga. Laws, p. 462, § 27)
Sec. 7.40. - New trials.
The judge of the state court of Spalding County shall have the power to grant new trials in all cases, civil and criminal, tried by the jury or by the judge on issues of fact in said court, upon the same terms and conditions and under the same laws and regulations in every respect governing the granting of new trials in the superior courts, and all rules of pleading, practice and procedure governing motions for new trial, and exceptions from the superior courts, shall apply carrying cases to the supreme court by bill of exceptions from the superior courts, shall apply to and govern the same in the said state court. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 29)
Sec. 7.41. - Writs of error.
A writ of error direct from the state [court] of Spalding County of this state shall lie upon the bill of exceptions under the same rule and regulation as govern and control the certifying, serving, filing and transmitting bills of exceptions in and from the superior courts of this state before the supreme court. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 30)
Sec. 7.42. - Disqualifications of judge.
Whenever the judge of said court is from any cause disqualified from presiding in any case, and the judge of the superior court on account of absence or any other cause shall fail to preside in said courts as provided in the Constitution of this state, then upon consent of the parties or upon their failure or refusal to agree, said case may be tried by a judge pro hac vice, selected in the same manner as now provided for in the superior court. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 31)
Sec. 7.43. - Insolvent costs.
At or within ten (10) days after each regular term of said state court, and oftener if he shall deem it proper to do so, the judge of said court shall distribute the fines and forfeitures arising from cases tried in said court, as follows: fines and forfeitures arising in cases originating in this court shall be prorated between the solicitor, the clerk, the sheriff of said courts and the justice of the peace and constables on their bills for insolvent cost in transferred cases. If at any time there shall be a surplus of the insolvent funds arising from the cases originating in the state court after paying all insolvent cost on cases originating in the state court after paying all insolvent cost on cases originating in the state court, the same shall be applied to insolvent cost in cases originating in the state court. The judge of the state court before paying insolvent bills shall approve the same and have them entered on the minutes of said court, and such bills for insolvent cost shall be a lien on funds arising from fines and forfeitures in said court superior to all other liens. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 32)
Sec. 7.44. - Books, stationery, etc.
The county commissioners of Spalding County shall provide the necessary books for keeping the dockets, minutes and records of said state court and all other books and stationery necessary to run said court. (1897 Ga. Laws p. 462, § 33)
Sec. 7.45. - Fines and forfeitures.
The solicitor of the state court of Spalding County shall collect at the distribution of the fines and forfeitures provided for in section 7.43 all of the money which the solicitor is entitled to under said distribution and turn said money over to the county depository of Spalding. It is hereby enacted, however, that the present solicitor of the city court of Griffin shall not be entitled to collect any insolvent costs out of any funds which may come into court after January 1, 1909, until after the solicitor elected under this Act and his successors shall have collected out of the funds brought in court during their respective terms, all the costs, solvent or insolvent, to which they may be entitled. (1907 Ga. Laws p. 193, § 4)
Sec. 7.46. - Contingent expense allowance.
The board of commissioners of Spalding County, Georgia, is hereby authorized and directed to pay annually from the county treasury of said county the sum of eleven hundred dollars ($1,100.00) each to the judge and solicitor of the state court of Spalding County, as a contingent expense allowance, said sum being in addition to the salaries of said judge and solicitor as now provided and allowed, and said sum to be paid in equal monthly payments. (1955 Ga. Laws p. 2208, § 1)
Sec. 7.47. - Special bailiff—Appointment.
The judge of the state court of Spalding County shall have the power and authority to appoint a special bailiff for said court, who shall be known as the special bailiff of the state court of Spalding County, whose term of office shall be for two (2) years, subject to removal at any time in the discretion of said judge; and if any vacancy shall occur by removal by said judge, or by resignation of such bailiff, such vacancy may be filled at any time by said judge's order, appointing another special bailiff for the unexpired term, subject to be removed as aforesaid at any time in the judge's discretion. (1901 Ga. Laws p. 133, § 1)
Sec. 7.48. - Same—Duties; fees.
The duties and powers of said special bailiff shall be to execute, enforce, serve and return any and all processes, orders, warrants or precepts, mesne or final, issued by said judge, or out of said court, or returnable thereto, when placed in his hands for that purpose. He shall, by the order of said judge, attend all regular, adjourned or special terms of the state court of Spalding County, and when so attending shall have the same powers as are now conferred by law on the sheriff of Spalding County in connection with said court. Before entering upon the discharge of his duties said special bailiff shall take and subscribe before said judge an oath to faithfully and promptly perform, to the best of his ability, all the duties of his office, and shall give bond with good security in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), to be approved by the commissioners of Spalding County, for the faithful performance of his duties, which bond he may be required to increase at any time in the discretion of said judge. Said bond shall be payable to the Governor of Georgia, and his successor in office and his liability on said bond shall be the same as that of sheriffs of this state on their bonds, in favor all concerned, and may be enforced in the same manner. For such services as said bailiff shall perform under this Act he shall be entitled to charge and receive the same fees and compensation as are allowed to the sheriff of said county for similar services when performed by him. Said special bailiff shall be subject to rule in said court for the same causes as sheriffs are liable to be ruled for and for disobedience of the orders, processes and mandates of said judge or court, and for failure to perform his duties, he shall be subject to the process of and punishment for contempt. Nothing in the Act contained shall relieve the sheriff of Spalding County from the performance of any duty now required of him by law in connection with said court, when required by said judge or said court to perform the same, and the order, process, warrant or execution shall be placed in his hands to be served or executed. (1901 Ga. Laws p. 133, § 2)
CHAPTER 3. - SMALL CLAIMS COURT

Sec. 7.51. - Creation of court.
There is hereby created and established a small claims court for Spalding County, Georgia, to be known as the "Small Claims Court of Spalding County, " which court shall have civil jurisdiction in cases at law in which the demand or value of the property involved does not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00); said jurisdiction to be concurrent with the jurisdiction of any other court or courts now or hereafter established in said county. Said jurisdiction shall include the power to issue writs of garnishment and attachment and, in addition to the powers herein specifically granted, all the powers granted to justices of the peace by laws of the State of Georgia. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 687, § 1; 1976 Ga. Laws, p. 2903, § 1; 1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4864, § 1)
Sec. 7.52. - Qualifications of judge, etc.
(a)
Any person appointed as a judge of the small claims court created by this act must, at the time of his appointment, be a resident of Spalding County, at least twenty-five (25) years of age, and of good moral character. Any person so appointed shall be exempt from jury duty in the superior court and any other court existing or that may be created and established in Spalding County.
(b)
All other officers appointed to or employed by said court, as now or hereafter provided, must be at least twenty-one (21) years of age and must be residents of Spalding County. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 2)
Sec. 7.53. - Judge pro tem.
Whenever the judge of said small claims court shall be unable from absence, sickness, or other cause, to discharge any duty whatever appertaining to his office, the judge of the superior court of Spalding County, or the judge of the state court of said County, which court may be known as the state court of Spalding County or by other designations, on application of said judge of the small claims court who is unable to act, shall perform such duties, and hear and determine all such matters as may be submitted to him, and shall be substituted in all respects in the place and stead, and in the manner aforesaid, of the judge unable to act. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 3)
Sec. 7.54. - Clerk.
Any duties herein prescribed to be performed by the clerk may be performed by the judge, although the judge may appoint a person to act as clerk or as deputy clerk, said clerk or deputy clerk to be compensated, if at all, from the fees herein authorized. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 4)
Sec. 7.55. - Salary of judge; clerk, deputy clerks; disposition of fees.
(a)
The judge of the small claims court shall receive an annual salary of not less than twenty-two thousand dollars ($22,000.00) per annum, the exact amount of which shall be fixed by the governing authority of Spalding County.
(b)
The judge shall appoint a clerk and one (1) or more deputy clerks who shall be or become certified within twelve (12) months alter their appointment according to the same rules and procedures as a certified justice of the peace and who shall have the same criminal jurisdiction as granted to justices of the peace under the laws of this state, including the power to issue warrants. The judge shall have the power to appoint one (1) or more marshals. The governing authority of Spalding County shall fix the compensation of such clerks and marshals.
(c)
All fees collected by the small claims court of Spalding County as authorized in this act shall be accounted for and paid into the county treasury. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 5; 1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4864, § 2)
Sec. 7.56. - Practice and procedure.
(a)
Actions shall be commenced by the filing of a statement of claim, including the last known address of the defendant, in concise form and free from technicalities. The plaintiff or his agent shall verify the statement of claim by oath or affirmation in the form herein provided, or its equivalent, and shall affix his signature thereto. The judge or clerk may, at the request of any individual, prepare the statement of claim and other papers required to be filed in an action.
(b)
A copy of the certified statement of claim, together with a notice of hearing in the form hereinafter prescribed, shall be served on the defendant, and such service shall be sufficient to give the court jurisdiction in the premises. Service of said notice shall be made only in the county by any official or person authorized by law to serve process in the superior court or by a duly qualified marshal of said small claims court; or by registered or certified mail with receipt; or by any person not a party to or otherwise interested in the suit, especially appointed by the judge of said court for that purpose.
(c)
When notice is to be served by registered or certified mail, the clerk or the judge shall enclose a copy of the statement of claim, verification and notice in an envelope addressed to the defendant at his last known address, prepay the postage from monies collected for that purpose, and mail the same forthwith, noting on the record the date and hour of mailing. When receipt therefor is returned, the clerk or judge shall attach the same to the original statement and notice of claim, or otherwise file it as a part of the record in the case, and it shall be prima facie evidence of service upon the defendant. If the sealed envelope in which said notice was mailed to the defendant by registered or certified mail is returned to the sender by United States postal authorities for any reason, service may be perfected on such defendant by any method as now or hereafter prescribed by the pertinent laws of Georgia providing for service of pleadings on defendants in the superior courts of Georgia.
(d)
When served by a private individual, as hereinbefore provided, he shall make proof of service by affidavit, showing the time and place of such service on the defendant.
(e)
When served as provided, the actual costs of service shall be taxable as costs. The cost of service shall be advanced by the party demanding same in addition to the filing fee hereinafter provided, and shall be taxed as other costs.
(f)
The plaintiff shall be entitled to judgment by default, without further proof, upon failure of defendant to appear, when the claim of the plaintiff is for a liquidated amount. When the amount is unliquidated, plaintiff shall be required to present proof of his claim.
(g)
Said notice shall provide the day and hour of the hearing, which shall not be less than five (5) nor more than thirty (30) days from the date of the service of said notice; provided, however, that where service is by registered or certified mail, the date of mailing shall be the date of service. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 6; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3506, § 1)
Sec. 7.57. - Docket.
A docket shall be maintained in which shall be indicated every proceeding and ruling had in each case. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 7)
Sec. 7.58. - Costs; third party claims.
(a)
The plaintiff, when he files his claim, shall deposit with the court the sum of twelve dollars and fifty cents ($12.50) plus four dollars ($4.00) for each additional defendant over one, which shall cover all costs of the proceeding up to and including the rendering of a judgment, except the cost of serving process or notice to defendants; provided, however, that the cost for filing a claim in all cases in which the demand or value of property involved exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), shall be twelve dollars and fifty cents ($12.50) plus four dollars ($4.00) for each additional defendant over one (1); provided, further, the deposit of costs in cases of attachment, garnishment, trover, statutory foreclosures on personalty and replevin by possessory warrant, shall be twelve dollars and fifty cents ($12.50) plus four dollars ($4.00) for each additional defendant over one (1); and provided further, that in any other matters, not mentioned specifically or provided for herein, the costs shall be the same as now or hereafter provided by the laws of Georgia for justices of the peace; and provided further, in claim cases and illegalities, instituted by a third party after levy, the costs shall be twelve dollars and fifty cents ($12.50) plus four dollars ($4.00) for each additional defendant over one (1), to be taxed in the discretion of the court. If a party shall fail to pay accrued costs, the judge shall have power to deny said party the right to file any new case while such costs remain unpaid, and likewise to deny such litigant the right to proceed further in any case pending. The award of court costs, as between the parties, shall be according to the discretion of the judge and shall be taxed in the cause at his discretion.
(b)
Whenever a claim affidavit and bond is filed by a third party claiming personal property that has been attached or levied upon under an attachment or execution issued from the small claims court, the levying officer shall forthwith return the same to said court and, unless the claimant makes written demand for a jury trial, the issues raised by such claim affidavit shall be heard and determined by the judge of said small claims court, and the judge shall be entitled to twelve dollars and fifty cents ($12.50) plus four dollars ($4.00) for each additional defendant over one for every such claim case. The same practice and procedure shall apply in cases of illegal affidavits. The plaintiff in attachment or plaintiff in execution may make written demand for a trial by jury within five (5) days after a claim affidavit and bond is filed with the levying officer. The party demanding such trial shall deposit with the court a sum sufficient to defray the expenses of such trial, including the summoning of prospective jurors and jury fees, the amount to be determined by the judge. The costs in such cases, including the costs of a jury trial, shall be finally taxed against the party cast with court costs in said proceeding.
(c)
In a procedure against a tenant holding over the total costs including service shall be sixteen dollars ($16.00). (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 8; 1976 Ga. Laws, p. 2903, § 2; 1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3475, § 1)
Sec. 7.59. - Hearings.
(a)
On the day set for the hearing, or such later time as the judge may set, the trial shall be had. Immediately prior to the trial of any case, the judge shall make an earnest effort to settle the controversy by conciliation. If the judge fails to induce the parties to settle their differences without a trial, he shall proceed with the hearing on the merits.
(b)
The judge shall conduct the trial in such manner as to do substantial justice between the parties according to the rules of substantive law and all rules and regulations relating to pleading, practice and procedure shall be liberally construed so as to administer justice.
(c)
If the plaintiff fails to appear, the suit may be dismissed for want of prosecution, or defendant may proceed to a trial on the merits, or the case may be continued as the judge may direct. If both parties fail to appear, the judge may continue the case, or order the same dismissed for want of prosecution or make any other just and proper disposition thereof, as justice may require. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 9)
Sec. 7.60. - Setoffs.
If any defendant has any claim against the plaintiff, the judge may require a statement of setoff to be filed, or same may be waived. If the plaintiff requires time to prepare his defense against such claim, the judge may continue the case for such purpose. If any defendant has any claim against the plaintiff which exceeds the jurisdiction of the court, he may use a part thereof to offset the claim of the plaintiff. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 10)
Sec. 7.61. - Judgments—Stays; partial payments.
When the judgment is to be rendered and the party against whom it is to be entered requests it, the judge shall inquire fully into the earnings and financial status of such party and shall have full discretionary power to stay the entry of judgment, and to stay execution, and to order partial payments in such amounts, over such periods, and upon such terms, as shall seem just under the circumstances and as will assure a definite and steady reduction of the judgment until it is finally and completely satisfied. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 11)
Sec. 7.62. - Same—Collection.
The judge of said small claims court shall not be obligated to collect such deferred partial payments on judgments so rendered but, if the plaintiff so requests, he may do so at the expense of the plaintiff for clerical and accounting costs incurred thereby. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 12)
Sec. 7.63. - Rules.
The judge of the superior court presiding in Spalding County may from time to time make rules for a simple, inexpensive and speedy procedure to effectuate the purposes of this act and shall have power to prescribe, modify and improve, from time to time, the forms to be used therein to ensure the proper administration of justice and to accomplish the purposes hereof. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 13)
Sec. 7.64. - Marshals.
The judge of said small claims court shall have the power to appoint one (1) or more marshals of and for said court, to act within and throughout the limits of the county, such marshals to serve at the pleasure of the judge and under his direction, and a person so appointed shall be known and designated as "small claims court marshal" and have the powers and authority, and be subject to the penalties of all lawful constables of the State of Georgia, including the power to serve any and all processes and writs issued from or by said small claims court; with power also to make levies and conduct judicial sales, and account therefor, in the manner of lawful constables. All such marshals shall, within five (5) days from their appointment as such, take and subscribe the oath of office as prescribed in Section 24-804 and give the bond prescribed in Section 24-811 of the Code of Georgia and such marshals shall be subject to be ruled for failure of duty or malfeasance in office as are other lawful constables of this state. The sheriff of said county and his deputies shall also have the power and authority to serve summons, make levies and sales, and serve as ex officio marshals of said court. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 14; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3506, § 2)
Sec. 7.65. - Jury trials.
Jury trials may be had upon demand of the plaintiff at the time of the commencement of his suit or by the defendant within five (5) days after service of notice of suit by depositing with the judge or his clerk such sum as the judge may fix as reasonable to secure payment of cost incurred by reason of a jury trial. Unless otherwise demanded, such juries shall consist of six (6) persons chosen from twelve (12) veniremen, the plaintiff and the defendant having three (3) strikes each. The judge or clerk shall have the power to subpoena jurymen and witnesses. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 15)
Sec. 7.66. - Liens.
Judgments of said small claims court shall become a lien on the real estate and personal property of a defendant, situated in any county, from the time of the filing in the office of the clerk of the superior court for said county, of an execution based upon such judgment and the entry thereof by the clerk in the general execution docket for said county. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 16)
Sec. 7.67. - Appeals.
Appeals may be had from judgments returned in the small claims court to the superior court, and the same provisions now or hereafter provided for by law for appeals from probate courts to the superior court, shall be applicable to appeals from the small claims court to the superior court. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 17)
Sec. 7.68. - Statement of claims.
Until otherwise provided by rules of court, the statement of claims, verification and notice shall be in the following or equivalent form, and shall be in lieu of any forms now employed and of any form of summons now provided by law:
"SMALL CLAIMS COURT OF
SPALDING COUNTY
Griffin, Georgia
Plaintiff _____
Address _____
vs.
Defendant _____
Statement of Claim
(Here the plaintiff, or at his request the Court, will insert a statement of the plaintiff's claim, and the original to be filed with the court, may if action is on a contract, express or implied, be verified by the plaintiff or his agent, as follows:)
State of Georgia, County of ___________ being first duly sworn on oath, says the foregoing is a just and true statement of the amount, owing by defendant to plaintiff, exclusive of all setoffs and just grounds of defense.
___________
Plaintiff (or Agent)
Sworn to and subscribed before me, ________ this ________ day of ________, 19___.
Notary Public (or Attesting Official)
Notice___________
_____
to _____
Defendant___________
Home Address___________
___________ or
Business Address___________
_____
You are hereby notified that ________ has made a claim and is requesting judgment against you in the sum of _____ dollars ($  ), as shown by the foregoing statement. The court will hold a hearing upon this claim on _____ at _____ ___.m. at (address of court).
You are required to be present at the hearing in order to avoid a judgment by default against you.
If you have witnesses, books, receipts or other writings bearing on this claim, you should bring them with you at the time of hearing.
If you wish to have witnesses summoned, see the court at once for assistance.
If you admit the claim, but desire additional time to pay, you must come to the hearing in person and state the circumstances to the court.
You may come with or without an attorney.
_____
Judge—Clerk of the Small Claims Court"
(1969 Ga. Laws p. 3687, § 18)
Sec. 7.69. - Acts and proceedings validated.
All acts performed by the judge or clerk and all proceedings had before the small claims court of Spalding County are hereby validated.
(1969 Ga. Laws p. 3687, § 19)
Sec. 7.70. - Judge.
The grand jury in session in Spalding County immediately prior to the expiration of the term of the judge of small claims court shall nominate and the judge of the superior court of Spalding County shall appoint a qualified person to serve as judge of small claims court for a period of four (4) years, beginning on November 1, immediately following his appointment, and until his successor is duly appointed and qualified. If, in the operation of the judge of the superior court of Spalding County, the so nominated by the grand jury is qualified, he may appoint him as judge of the small claims court of Spalding County to serve said four-year term; but if the appointing judge in his sole discretion does not deem such person qualified or desirable to hold such office, he shall refuse to appoint him as such judge and shall notify the foreman of the grand jury nominating such person to nominate another person for such office, and within five (5) days thereafter it shall be the duty of the grand jury, or its committee as aforesaid, to nominate another person for appointment to such office, and the judge of the superior court of Spalding County upon receipt of such nomination shall use his discretion as aforesaid in making or refusing to make such appointment. Successors in such office shall be nominated and appointed, each four (4) years in the same manner as herein before set out, for a four-year term beginning on November 1 immediately following their appointment. Any vacancy in such office for any unexpired term shall be filled without undue delay by the appointment of a qualified person by the judge of the superior court of Spalding County, with or without any nomination by the grand jury, in the sole discretion of the appointing judge. The judge of said small claims court may be removed from office by the judge of the superior court of Spalding County upon a recommendation being made by the grand jury of Spalding County that he be removed. Any vacancy created by any such removal shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner that other vacancies are filled. (1969 Ga. Laws p. 3687, § 20)
Sec. 7.71. - Office expenses.
All forms, docket books, file jackets, filing cabinets and the like, required by this Act shall be furnished by the county commissioners. (1969 Ga. Laws p. 3687, § 21)
Sec. 7.72. - Practice and procedure.
Said small claims court having no designated terms at stated periods, the judge thereof shall, in each instance, set dates for all hearings and trials in every kind of case, and, also designate the times when attachments and executions are returnable and, also designate the time when each answer to a summons of garnishment shall be filed, but no garnishee may be required to file his answer sooner than ten (10) days after he is served with summons. Whenever a garnishee shall fail to answer at the time so stated in the summons served upon him, unless the court in its discretion extends the time for filing, the judge may forthwith render judgment immediately and issue an execution against the garnishee in favor of the, plaintiff for the amount previously adjudged to be due the plaintiff by the original defendant, and also for costs in the garnishment proceeding, but no judgment shall be rendered against a garnishee before a final judgment shall have first been rendered against the defendant. (1969 Ga Laws, p. 3687, § 22)
Sec. 7.73. - Garnishment.
A summons of garnishment may be served by the sheriff or his deputies, or by a lawful constable, or by a small claims court marshal, or by the judge of the small claims court; or it may be served by registered or certified mail, provided such service by mail is evidenced by a properly signed return receipt, which receipt shall be attached to the original garnishment affidavit, or to the writ of attachment; provided further, it shall be prima facie evidence of service on the garnishee if the sealed envelope in which said summons was mailed to the garnishee by registered or certified mail is returned to sender by U.S. postal authorities marked "refused," giving the date of refusal and be signed or initialed by a U.S. post office employee or U.S. mail carrier to whom refusal was made. Whenever served in person by a court officer as aforesaid, such officer shall enter his return of service either on the back of the original garnishment affidavit or the attachment writ or on the back of a conformed copy of the original summons of garnishment which was given to the garnishee, or such entry of service may be made on a separate paper and attached to the said garnishment affidavit or the writ of attachment, as the case may be. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 23; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3506, § 3)
Sec. 7.74. - Contempt of court.
The judge of the small claims court shall have the power to impose fines of not more than ten dollars ($10.00) or imprison for not longer than twenty-four (24) hours any person guilty of contempt of court, such fines to be paid into the county treasury or depository for county purposes. (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 24)
Sec. 7.75. - Costs.
The fee of marshal for the execution of a fi. fa. shall be four dollars ($4.00), plus a reasonable amount for drayage to be determined by the small claims court judge. The rate of commission on all judicial sales shall be ten (10) percent of the first two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and five (5) percent on all sums over that amount with a minimum of three dollars ($3.00). For issuance of a fi. fa. the court shall charge and collect a fee of two dollars ($2.00). (1969 Ga. Laws, p. 3687, § 25; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3506, § 4; 1980 Ga. Laws, p. 3475, § 2)
CHAPTER 4. - MAGISTRATE COURT[13]

Footnotes:
--- (13) ---
Cross reference— Magistrate court, § 10-1001 et seq.

Sec. 7.81. - Additional costs in magistrate court cases for county law library maintenance.
For the purpose of providing funds for the maintenance and operation of the county law library of Spalding County and for those uses specified in section 36-15-7 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, a sum not to exceed two dollars ($2.00), in addition to all other legal costs, may be charged and collected in each action or case, either civil, criminal, or quasi-criminal, filed in the magistrate court of Spalding County. The amount of such additional costs to be charged and collected in each such case shall be fixed by the chief judge of the superior court of Spalding County. The amount of such costs to be fixed by such judge may vary from the amount imposed in actions or cases in other courts within Spalding County. The clerk of the magistrate court of Spalding County shall collect such costs and remit them to the treasurer of the board of trustees of the county law library on the first day of each month. Except as provided in this section, Chapter 15 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated shall be adhered to in all respects in connection with the imposition, collection, use, and disposition of such costs and the definitions, practices, and procedures contained in such chapter shall be applicable to the costs provided for in this section. (1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4531, § 1)
Editor's note— Inasmuch as 1984 Ga. Laws, p. 4531, § 1, did not specifically amend any legislation included in this division of the Spalding County Code, codification of such provisions as § 7.81 is at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 7.82. - Compensation of chief magistrate By local act.
(a)
Pursuant to subsection (d) of section 15-10-23 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, and effective July 1, 1987, the salary of the chief magistrate of Spalding County shall be twenty-seven thousand five hundred dollars ($27,500.00) per annum.
(b)
Said salary shall be apportioned and payable for the last six (6) months of 1987 at said annual rate, and thereafter it shall be payable for each subsequent year at said annual rate from the funds of Spalding County. Said salary shall be payable, as accrued, in equal monthly installments on the last day of each month.
(c)
The board of commissioners of Spalding County, as the governing authority of said county, may supplement the salary of the chief magistrate in such amounts as it may fix from time to time; but no such salary or supplement shall be decreased during the incumbent's term of office. (1985 Ga. Laws, p. 4435, §§ 1-3; 1987 Ga. Laws, p. 4430, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— Sections 1-3 of 1985 Ga. Laws, p. 4435, have been included as § 7.82 at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 7.83. - Same—By population act.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided by local law, the chief magistrate of each county other than those counties where the probate judge serves as chief magistrate shall receive a minimum annual salary of the amount fixed in the following schedule:
EXPAND
Population Minimum Salary
0—  5,999 $ 6,912.00
6,000— 11,999 10,300.00
12,000— 19,999 11,742.00
20,000— 29,999 13,125.00
30,000— 39,999 15,592.00
40,000— 49,999 17,010.00
50,000— 99,999 18,060.00
100,000—199,999 23,581.00
200,000—299,999 31,475.00
300,000 or more  34,275.00
  The minimum salary for each affected chief magistrate shall be fixed from the above table according to the population of the county in which the chief magistrate serves as determined by the United States decennial census of 1980 or any future such census. The county governing authority may supplement the minimum annual salary of the chief magistrate in such amount as it may fix from time to time; but no chief magistrate's compensation or supplement shall be decreased during any term of office.
(b)
Unless otherwise provided by local law, each magistrate other than the chief magistrate shall receive a minimum monthly salary of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per month. The salary of each magistrate other than the chief magistrate may be supplemented by the county governing authority in such amount as it may fix from time to time; but no such magistrate's compensation or supplement shall be decreased during any term of office.
(c)
During the term of office of any chief magistrate or magistrate whose salary is supplemented by the county governing authority, the chief magistrate or magistrate shall be entitled to the greater of the current salary, including any supplement by the county governing authority, or the minimum annual salary stated in subsection (a) of this Code section but in no event to both.
(d)
This Code section shall not apply to any chief magistrate who is also serving as a judge of a civil court which is provided for in Article VI, Section I, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1983. In such case, the salary of such chief magistrate shall be as provided by the local governing authority of the county. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 424, § 1; 1989 Ga. Laws, p. 426, § 1)
Editor's note— Section 1 of 1988 Ga. Laws, p. 424, amended O.C.G.A § 15-10-23(a), (b), and added subsections (f), (g). The provisions have been included as § 7.83.
CHAPTER 5. - PROBATE COURT[14]

Footnotes:
--- (14) ---
Cross reference— Salary of probate judge, §§ 6.6(c), 6.7(b).

Sec. 7.91. - Qualifications of judge; appointment of clerk.
(a)
(1)
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this section, no person shall be eligible to offer for election to or hold the office of judge of the probate court unless the person:
a.
Is a citizen of the United States;
b.
Is a resident of the county in which the person seeks the office of judge of the probate court for at least two (2) years prior to qualifying for election to the office and remains a resident of such county during the term of office;
c.
Is a registered voter;
d.
Has attained the age of twenty-five (25) years prior to the date of qualifying for election to the office, but this subparagraph shall not apply to any person who was holding the office of judge of the probate court on July 1, 1981;
e.
Has obtained a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent; and
f.
Has not been convicted of a felony offense or any offense involving moral turpitude contrary to the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
(2)
Each person offering as a candidate for the office of judge of the probate court shall file an affidavit with the clerk of the superior court of the county in which the person is seeking office prior to or at the time of qualifying as a candidate. The affidavit shall affirm that the person meets all the qualifications required by subparagraphs a., c., d., e., and f. of paragraph (1) of this subsection and either subparagraph b. of paragraph (1) of this subsection or subsection (c) of this section.
(b)
The judge of the probate court cannot, during his term of office, be executor, administrator, or guardian, or other agent of a fiduciary nature required to account to his court. When any person holding such trust is elected judge of the probate court, his letters and powers immediately abate upon his qualification. However, a judge of the probate court may be an administrator, guardian, or executor in a case where the jurisdiction belongs to another county or in a special case where he is allowed by law and required to account to the judge of the probate court of another county.
(c)
(1)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Code [O.C.G.A.] sections 15-9-10 and 15-9-11, in any county in which a chief clerk of the probate judge has been appointed and said chief clerk meets all qualifications for the office of probate judge, the person serving as chief clerk at the time of occurrence of a vacancy in the office of probate judge shall discharge the duties of the office of the judge of the probate court.
(2)
Vacancies in the office of judge of the probate court having a chief clerk as provided for in subsection (a)[(c)(1)] of this Code section shall be filled as follows:
a.
The chief clerk shall discharge such duties of the judge of the probate court until the first day of January following the next succeeding general election; and
b.
If the next succeeding general election is not one at which county officers are elected, a duly qualified person shall be elected judge of the probate court at a special election held at the same time as the general election. The person so elected shall take office on the first day of January following such election and shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term of office.
(3)
The chief clerk performing the duties as judge of the probate court shall receive the same compensation, paid in the same manner, as such judge of the probate court would have received.
(d)
The judges of the probate courts are, by virtue of their offices, clerks of their own courts; but they may appoint one (1) or more clerks, for whose conduct they are responsible, who hold their offices at the pleasure of the judge. The judges of the probate courts shall also have the authority to appoint one (1) of their clerks as chief clerk of the probate judge unless otherwise provided by local law. (1985 Ga. Laws, p. 1247, § 1; 1988 Ga. Laws, p. 586, §§ 1, 2; 1989 Ga. Laws, p. 363, § 1)
Editor's note— Section 1 of 1985 Ga. Laws, p. 1247, amended O.C.G.A. § 15-9-2; the provisions have been included as a new § 7.91. Section 1 of 1988 Ga. Laws, p. 586, amended O.C.G.A. § 15-9-11.1; the provisions have been included as amendatory of § 7.91(c). Section 2 of 1988 Ga. Laws, p. 586, amended O.C.G.A. § 15-9.36(a); the provisions have been included as a new subsection (d) of this section.
