CHAPTER 5. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

Sec. 5.81. - Creation; name.
(a)
Article V, Section IX of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph which shall read as the following provisions set out herein as sections 5.81 through 5.92: There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in the City of Griffin to be known as the Griffin-Spalding County development authority, which shall be an instrumentality of the City of Griffin and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "authority."
(b)
That constitutional amendment (Res. Act. 182, H.R. 615-1163, Ga. L. 1962, p. 945), duly ratified at the 1962 general election and proclaimed by the governor to be a part of the Constitution of 1945 and continued in effect in the Constitution of Georgia of 1976 by virtue of Article XIII, Section I, Paragraph II thereof and having previously been amended by Act No. 1134, Ga. L. 1978, 4151 and by Act No. 731, Ga. L. 1981, p. 4875 and by Act No. 98, Ga. L. 1983, p. 3834 [subsection (a) of this section], which amendment provides for the Griffin-Spalding County development authority and its powers, duties, and authority, shall not be repealed or deleted on July 1, 1987, as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia but is specifically continued in force and effect on and after that date as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4151, § 1; 1985 Ga. Laws, p. 3845, § 1)
Editor's note— The provisions of 1985 Ga. Laws, p. 3845, § 1, have been included as § 5.81(b), with the existing provisions designated as subsection (a).
Sec. 5.82. - Composition; appointment of members; terms.
The authority shall consist of twelve (12) members. The chairman of the board of commissioners of the City of Griffin, the chairman of the board of commissioners of Spalding County, and the executive director of the Griffin-Spalding County Chamber of Commerce shall be members of the authority or, if the chairman of either or both boards of commissioners shall elect to do so, the chairman may appoint another member of his board of commissioners to serve in his stead, such appointment to be during the tenure and at the pleasure of the chairman. In addition, the board of commissioners of the City of Griffin shall appoint four (4) members for terms of three (3) years each; and the board of commissioners of Spalding County shall appoint four (4) members for four (4) terms of three (3) years each, except as provided in this paragraph. The six (6) appointed authority members in office on March 1, 1988, shall serve for the remainder of the terms to which they were appointed, with the term of one (1) such member appointed by the board of commissioners of the City of Griffin expiring on December 31 of each year and the term of one (1) such member appointed by the board of commissioners of Spalding County expiring on December 31 of each year. In addition to such six (6) appointed members, the board of commissioners of the City of Griffin shall appoint one (1) additional member, the board of commissioners of Spalding County shall appoint one (1) additional member, and one (1) additional member shall be appointed jointly by the board of commissioners of the City of Griffin and the board of commissioners of Spalding County. Such additional three (3) members shall have initial terms of office beginning immediately upon their appointment and expiring December 31, 1990. Thereafter, appointed members shall each be appointed for three-year terms by the respective board of commissioners, and vacancies for each unexpired term shall be filled by the respective board of commissioners. Appointed members shall be eligible for reappointment. Seven (7) of the twelve (12) members shall constitute a quorum, and a majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4151, § 1; 1988 Ga. Laws, 3938, § 1)
Sec. 5.83. - Property, obligations, interest immune from taxation.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of the City of Griffin. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1)
Sec. 5.84. - Powers.
The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(a)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts.
(b)
To borrow money and issue its revenue bonds and bond anticipation notes from time to time and to use the proceeds thereof for the purpose of financing (by loan, grant, lease, or otherwise) the cost of any project, including the cost of extending, adding to, or improving the project, or for the purpose of refunding any such bonds of the authority theretofore issued and to otherwise carry out the purposes of this amendment and to pay all other costs of the authority incident to or necessary and appropriate to such purposes, including the providing of funds to be paid into any fund or funds to secure such bonds and notes, provided that all such bonds and notes shall be issued in accordance with the procedures and subject to the limitations set forth in the Official Code of Georgia Section 36-63-8 and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, and assign any and all of its funds, property, and income as security therefor.
(c)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name.
(d)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents, engineers, attorneys, fiscal agents, accountants, and employees and to provide their compensation and duties. These individuals may or may not be members of the authority. The authority shall also have the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority.
(e)
(1)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be to encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Spalding County and the City of Griffin so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within the county, and to that end to finance any one or more buildings or structures to be used in the production, manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, or handling of any agricultural, manufactured, mining, or industrial product or any combination of the foregoing, in every case with all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery, equipment, parking facilities, landscaping, and facilities for outdoor storage, all as determined by the authority, which determination shall be final and not subject to review; and there may be included as part of any such project all improvements necessary to the full utilization thereof, including site preparation, roads and streets, sidewalks, water supply, outdoor lighting, belt line railroad sidings and lead tracks, bridges, causeways, terminals for railroad, automotive, and for transportation, transportation facilities incidental to the project, and the dredging and improving of harbors and waterways, none of which foregoing descriptive words shall be construed to constitute a limitation, provided that none of the improvements described in this sentence shall be the primary purpose of any project.
(2)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power to finance the acquisition, construction, improvement, or modification of any property, real or personal, used as or in connection with a sewage disposal facility or a solid waste disposal facility which any federal, state, or local agency having jurisdiction in the premises shall have certified as necessary for the continued operation of the industries which the same is to serve and which is necessary for the public welfare, provided that if such facility is to be operated by a political subdivision of this state or an agency or instrumentality thereof, for its general constituency, the certification need only state that such facility is necessary for the public welfare; provided, further, that for the purposes of this subparagraph, the term "sewage disposal facility" means any property used for the collection, storage, treatment, utilization, processing, or final disposal of sewage; for the purposes of this subparagraph, the term "solid waste disposal facility" means any property used for the collection, storage, treatment, utilization, processing, or final disposal of solid waste; for the purposes of this subparagraph, the term "solid waste" means garbage, refuse, or other discarded solid materials, including solid waste materials resulting from industrial and agricultural operations and from community activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as salt, dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluents, and dissolved materials in irrigation return flows; and for the purposes of this subparagraph, the word "garbage" includes putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matters, animal offal and carcasses, and recognizable industrial by-products but excludes sewage and human wastes; and the word "refuse" includes all nonputrescible wastes.
(3)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power to finance the acquisition, construction, improvement, or modification of any property, real or personal or both, used as a peak shave facility, provided that "peak shave facility" shall have the meaning generally accepted and understood in the natural gas distribution industry as that term is generally understood to describe a storage facility for the purpose of avoiding undesirable consequences in the distribution system during peak periods of consumption; and any project involving a "peak shave facility" may be undertaken as otherwise provided in this amendment.
(4)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power to finance the acquisition, construction, leasing, improvement, or modification of any facilities and any property, real or personal or both, useful or necessary in the transportation of persons or property by air, provided that such projects shall not include the creation of airports or airport terminal facilities or improvements thereon, except as incidentally related to the furnishing of transportation of persons or property by air as provided in this subparagraph; such projects may include, but shall not be limited to aircraft, aircraft maintenance and reconditioning equipment, aircraft communications equipment and facilities for the maintenance and repair of such equipment, ground support equipment and facilities used by aircraft, any necessary or useful real or personal property or rights to such property, all licenses, storage facilities including storage and distribution facilities for fuel, and the acquisition, modernization, or expansion of existing facilities or systems for transportation of persons or property by air, all as determined by the authority, which determination shall be final and not subject to review; such projects for the transportation of persons or property by air are authorized to assist state and local governments to secure adequate systems of transportation of passengers for hire as authorized by law and for the development of trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities; and such projects for the transportation of persons or property by air may be undertaken to the same extent and on the same conditions as otherwise provided in this amendment for other facilities, except that such projects may be authorized only for air transportation systems which are not eligible to receive subsidies from the federal government at the time the project is undertaken, only where the corporate headquarters, the general maintenance, repair, support, and communication facilities, the general reservations scheduling, and dispatch facilities, and the personal residence of the majority of the employees are all located within the geographic jurisdiction of the authority, and only if the aircraft are routinely dispatched from and returned to the geographic jurisdiction of the authority, provided that the operation of flight equipment and incidental ground support facilities and equipment and the location of employees of such a project outside the geographic jurisdiction of the authority shall not be prohibited if the conditions specified in this subparagraph are met; and provided, further, that no city, county, political subdivision, or any development authority may ever operate any such facility and the same must be acquired and operated by a private company or individual who shall guarantee the repayment of any obligations assumed, who shall be fully responsible for all operating expenses and losses, and who shall be taxable as any other private undertaking would be.
(5)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power to finance the acquisition, construction, design, engineering, improvement, leasing, maintaining, modification, rebuilding, and repairing of any facilities and any property utilized in connection with a community antenna television system or any combination of the foregoing, including all necessary or useful land or rights in land and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery, vehicles, and parking facilities, all by the authority, which determination shall be final and not subject to review; such projects are authorized to promote the expansion and development of the cable communication industry, to enhance employment opportunities throughout this state, and to encourage local origination programming by community antenna television systems on one (1) or more channels, to include, but not be limited to, public access, government, and education programs.
(6)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power to finance the acquisition, construction, improvement, or modification of any property, real or personal, which shall be suitable for or used as or in connection with:
a.
Sports facilities, including private training and related office and other facilities when authorized by the governing authority of the political subdivision or municipal corporation in which the facility is to be constructed and maintained;
b.
Convention or trade show facilities;
c.
Airports, docks, wharves, mass commuting facilities, parking facilities, or storage or training facilities directly related to any of the foregoing;
d.
Facilities for the local furnishing of electric energy or gas;
e.
Facilities for the furnishing of water, if available, on reasonable demand to members of the general public; and
f.
Hotel and motel facilities for lodging which also may provide meals, provided that such facilities are constructed in connection with and adjacent to convention, sports, or trade show facilities.
(7)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power to finance the acquisition or development of land as the site for an industrial park, provided that for purposes of this subparagraph, the term "development of land" includes the provision of water, sewage, drainage, or similar facilities or transportation, power, or communication facilities which are incidental to use of the site as an industrial park but, except with respect to such facilities, does not include the provision of structures or buildings.
(8)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power. to finance the acquisition, construction, or leasing of:
a.
An office building facility and related real and personal property for use by any business enterprise which will further the development of trade, commerce, industry, or employment opportunities in this state and which shall be adjacent to or used in conjunction with any other existing or proposed project defined in this paragraph, which existing or proposed project is located within the area of operation of the authority and which is used or intended to be used by such business enterprise; or
b.
A separate office building facility and related real and personal property for use by any business enterprise which will further the development of trade, commerce, industry, or employment opportunities in this state;
No such office building facility as defined in this subparagraph shall be undertaken by the authority unless the authority determines that the business enterprise to use such facility will be the primary tenant.
(9)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power to finance the use of any one (1) or more buildings or structures for the purpose of skilled nursing home or intermediate care home facilities subject to regulation and licensure by the department of human resources and all necessary, convenient or related interests in land, machinery, apparatus, appliances, equipment, furnishings, appurtenances, site preparation, landscaping and physical amenities.
(10)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power to finance the acquisition, construction, equipping, improvement, modification, or expanding of any property, real or personal, for use as or in connection with research and development facilities. As used in this subparagraph, the term "research and development facilities" means any property used in whole or in substantial part in conducting basic and applied research for commercial, industrial, or governmental institutions in connection with institutions of higher education, which research is determined by the authority to contribute to the development and promotion of trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities for the public good and general welfare in furtherance of the purposes for which the authority was created. The authority's determination as to such matters shall be final and not subject to review.
(11)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power to finance the acquisition, construction, leasing or equipping of new industrial facilities or improve, modify, acquire, expand, modernize, lease, equip, or remodel existing industrial facilities located or to be located within the City of Griffin or Spalding County, Georgia.
(12)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the power to finance the acquisition, construction, improvement, or modification of any property, real or personal, which any industrial concern might desire to use, acquire, or lease in connection with the operation of any plant or facility located or to be located within the City of Griffin or Spalding County, Georgia.
(13)
Also included in the projects which the authority may undertake in pursuance of its purpose shall be the power to finance the acquisition, construction, improvement, or modification of any property, real or personal, used as air or water pollution control facilities which any federal, state, or local agency having jurisdiction in the premises shall have certified as necessary for the continued operation of the industry or industries which the same is to serve and which is necessary for the public welfare, provided that for the purposes of this subparagraph, the term "air pollution control facility" means any property used, in whole or in substantial part, to abate or control atmospheric pollution or contamination by removing, altering, disposing of, or storing atmospheric pollutants or contaminants, if such facility is in furtherance of applicable federal, state, or local standards for abatement or control of atmospheric pollutants or contaminants; and provided, further, that for the purpose hereof, the term "water pollution control facility" means any property used, in whole or in substantial part, to abate or control water pollution or contamination by removing, altering, disposing, or storing pollutants, contaminants, wastes, or heat, including the necessary intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, pumping, power and other equipment, holding ponds, lagoons, and appurtenances thereto, if such facility is in the furtherance of applicable federal, state, or local standards for the abatement or control of water pollution or contamination.
(14)
Among the projects which the authority may undertake shall be the "cost of project" which shall include all costs of construction, purchase or other form of acquisition; all costs of real or personal property required for the purposes of such project and of all facilities related thereto, including land and any rights or undivided interest therein, easements, franchises, water rights, fees, permits, approvals, licenses and certificates and the securing of such franchises, permits, approvals, licenses and certificates and the preparation of applications therefor, all machinery, equipment, initial fuel and other supplies required for such project; financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and during such additional period as the authority may reasonably determine to be necessary for the placing of such project in operation; costs of engineering, architectural and legal services; fees paid to fiscal agents for financial and other advice or supervision; cost of plans and specifications and all expenses necessary or incidental to the construction, purchase or acquisition of the completed project or to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to the financing herein authorized. There may also be included, as part of such cost of project, the repayment of any loans made for the advance payment of any part of such cost, including the interest thereon at rates to be determined by the authority. The cost of any project may also include a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, and such other reserves as may be reasonably required by the authority with respect to the financing and operation of its projects and as may be authorized by any bond resolution or trust agreement or indenture pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any such bonds may be authorized. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds or notes issued under this amendment.
(f)
No project acquired under this amendment shall be operated by the authority. Such a project shall be leased or sold to one (1) or more persons, firms, or private corporations. If revenue bonds or other obligations are to be issued to pay all or part of the cost of the project, the project must be so leased or the contract for its sale must be entered into prior to or simultaneously with the issuance of the bonds or obligations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due over not more than forty (40) years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee, purchaser or borrower shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the leased, purchased or financed property and to pay rentals or installments in amounts sufficient to pay the principal of and the interest and premium, if any, on all of its bonds and other obligations as such principal and interest become due. Provided, however, that the acquisition and development of land by the authority as the site for an industrial park as provided in this amendment shall not be deemed to be the operation of a project and, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the authority shall not be required to enter into a lease of such a project or a contract for its sale as a condition to the issuance of bonds or other obligations of the authority to provide financing therefor.
(g)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(h)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter.
(i)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
(j)
The authority shall have no right of eminent domain or condemnation.
(k)
To extend credit or make loans to any person, firm, corporation, or other industrial entity for the planning, design, construction, acquisition, or carrying out of any project, which credit or loans shall be secured by loan agreements, mortgages, security agreements, contracts, and all other instruments, fees, or charges, upon such terms and conditions as the authority shall deter, "nine reasonable in connection with such loans, including provision for the establishment and maintenance of reserves and insurance funds; and, in the exercise of powers granted by this amendment in connection with a project for such person, firm, corporation, or other industrial entity, to require the inclusion in any contract, loan agreement, security agreement, or other instrument, of such provisions for guaranty, insurance, construction, use, operation, maintenance, and financing of a project as the authority may deem necessary or desirable.
(l)
To acquire, by purchase, gift, or construction, any real or personal property desired to be acquired as part of any project or for the purpose of improving, extending, adding to, reconstructing, renovating, or remodeling any project or part thereof already acquired or for the purpose of demolition to make room for such project or any part thereof.
(m)
To mortgage, convey, pledge, or assign any properties, revenues, income, tolls, charges, or fees owned or received by the authority.
(n)
To acquire, accept, or retain equitable interests, security interest, or other interest in any property, real or personal, by mortgage, assignment, security agreement, pledge, conveyance, contract, lien, loan agreement, or other consensual transfer, in order to secure the repayment of any moneys loaned or credit extended by the authority.
(o)
To construct, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, and equip projects located on land owned or leased by the authority or land owned or leased by others and to pay all or part of the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations or any other contribution, all of which the authority is authorized to receive, accept, and use.
(p)
As security for repayment of authority obligations, to pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate, or otherwise encumber any property, real or personal, of such authority and to execute any trust agreement, indenture, or security agreement containing any provisions not in conflict with law, which trust agreement, indenture, or security agreement may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default, on such obligations, either in payment of principal or interest or in the performance of any term or condition, as are contained in such agreement or indenture. The State of Georgia, on behalf of itself and each county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district therein, waives any right which it or such county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, or taxing district may have to prevent the forced sale or foreclosure of any property of the authority so mortgaged or encumbered, and any such mortgage or encumbrance may be foreclosed in accordance with law and the terms thereof.
(q)
To contract with any county or municipal corporation in the state; and any county or municipal corporation in the state is empowered to contract with the authority to furnish air transportation services where such service is not otherwise in existence.
(r)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, mortgage, dispose of, or grant options for any real or personal property or interest therein for any such purposes. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1978 Ga. Laws, 4151, § 1; 1981 Ga. Laws, p. 4875, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 3834, § 1)
Sec. 5.85. - Debts.
No bonds or other obligations of and no indebtedness incurred by the authority shall constitute an indebtedness or obligation of the State of Georgia or of any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof, nor shall any act of the authority in any manner constitute or result in the creation of an indebtedness of this state or of any such county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision. All such bonds and obligations shall be payable solely from the revenues therein pledged to such payment, including pledged rentals, sales proceeds, insurance proceeds, and condemnation awards; and no holder or holders of any such bonds or obligations shall ever have the right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of this state or of any county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision thereof, nor to enforce the payment thereof against any property of the state or of any such county, municipal corporation, or political subdivision. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 3834, § 1)
Sec. 5.86. - Compensation, expenses of members.
The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the authority, but shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 3834, § 1)
Sec. 5.87. - Bonds, notes generally.
(a)
The obligations of the authority evidenced by bonds, bond anticipation notes, trust indentures, deeds to secure obligations, security agreements, or mortgages executed in connection therewith may contain such provisions not inconsistent with law as shall be determined by the board of directors of the authority. The authority, in such instruments, may provide for the pledging of all or any part of its revenues, income, or charges and for the mortgaging, encumbering, or conveying of all or any part of its real or personal property; may covenant against pledging any or all of its revenues, income, or charges; and may further provide for the disposition of proceeds realized from the sale of any bonds and bond anticipation notes, for the replacement of lost, destroyed, stolen, or mutilated bonds and bond anticipation notes, and for the payment and redemption of such bonds and bond anticipation notes. Undertakings of the authority may prescribe the procedure by which bondholders and note holders may enforce rights against the authority and may provide for rights upon breach of any covenant, condition, or obligation of the authority; and bonds, resolutions, trust indentures, mortgages, or deeds to secure obligations executed by the authority and bond anticipation notes executed by the authority may contain such provisions not otherwise contrary to law as the authority shall deem necessary or desirable.
(b)
The proceeds derived from the sale of all bonds and bond anticipation notes issued by the authority shall be held and used for the ultimate purpose of paying, directly or indirectly as permitted in this amendment, all or part of the cost of any project, including the cost of extending, financing, adding to, or improving the project, for the purpose of refunding any bond anticipation notes issued in accordance with this amendment or refunding any previously issued bonds of the authority.
(c)
All bonds and bond anticipation notes issued by the authority shall be revenue obligations of the authority and may be made payable out of any revenues or other receipts, funds, or moneys of the authority, subject only to any agreements with the holders of other bonds or bond anticipation notes or to particular security agreements pledging any particular revenues, receipts, funds, or moneys.
(d)
Issuance by the authority of one (1) or more series of bonds or bond anticipation notes for one or more purposes shall not preclude it from issuing other bonds or notes in connection with the same project or with any other projects; but the proceeding wherein any subsequent bonds or bond anticipation notes are issued shall recognize and protect any prior pledge or mortgage made in any prior security agreement or made for any prior issue of bonds or bond anticipation notes, unless in the resolution authorizing such prior issue the right is expressly reserved to the authority to issue subsequent bonds or bond anticipation notes on a parity with such prior issue.
(e)
The authority shall have the power and is authorized, whenever revenue bonds of the authority have been validated as provided in this amendment, to issue, from time to time, its notes in anticipation of the issuance of such bonds as validated and to renew, from time to time, any such notes by the issuance of new notes, whether the notes to be renewed have or have not matured. The authority may issue notes only to provide funds which would otherwise be provided by the issuance of the bonds as validated. The notes may be authorized, sold, executed, and delivered in the same manner as bonds. As with its bonds, the authority may sell such notes at public or private sale. Any resolution or resolutions authorizing notes of the authority or any issue thereof may contain any provisions which the authority is authorized to include in any resolution or resolutions authorizing bonds of the authority or any issue thereof; and the authority may include in any notes any terms, covenants, or conditions which it is authorized to include in any bonds. Validation of such bonds shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of the notes, but it shall not be required that such notes be judicially validated. Bond anticipation notes shall not be issued in an amount exceeding the par value of the bonds in anticipation of which they are to be issued.
(f)
The interest rate on or rates to be borne by any bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority shall be fixed by the authority. The authority shall have the power to delegate the power to set the interest rate, within stated parameters, to any person, firm or institution chosen by the authority. Any limitations with respect to interest rates found in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated shall not apply to obligations issued under this amendment.
(g)
All revenue bonds issued by the authority under this amendment shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, except as provided in subsection (f) of this amendment and except as specifically set forth below:
(1)
Revenue bonds issued by the authority may be in such form, either coupon or fully registered, or both coupon and fully registered, and may be subject to such exchangeability and transferability provisions as the bond resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or any indenture or trust agreement may provide.
(2)
Revenue bonds shall bear a certificate of validation. The signature of the Clerk of the superior court of Spalding County may be made on the certificate of validation of such bonds by facsimile or by manual execution, stating the date on which such bonds were validated; and such entry shall be original evidence of the fact of judgment and shall be received as original evidence in any court in this state.
(3)
The notice to the district attorney or the attorney general and the notice to the public of the time, place, and date of the validation hearing need not state the rate of interest the bonds will bear.
(4)
The term "cost of project" shall have the meaning prescribed in subsection 5.84(e)(11) of this amendment whenever referred to in bond resolutions of this authority, bonds and bond anticipation notes issued by the authority or notices and proceedings to validate such bonds. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 3834, § 1)
Sec. 5.88. - Prerequisites to issuance of bonds; exception.
The purposes of this amendment are to develop and promote trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities, for the public good and the general welfare, and to promote the general welfare of the state and to reduce unemployment to the greatest extent possible within Spalding County and the City of Griffin. No bonds or bond anticipation notes, except refunding bonds, shall be issued by the authority under this amendment unless the authority adopts a resolution finding that the project for which such bonds or notes are to be issued will promote the foregoing objectives. Notwithstanding the foregoing requirement:
(a)
Bonds or bond anticipation notes may be issued to finance projects for air and water pollution control facilities and for sewage and solid waste disposal facilities, as provided in this amendment, without a finding that the project will increase or maintain employment, so long as the appropriate certification described in this amendment has been secured from the federal, state, or local agency having jurisdiction in the premises; and
(b)
Bonds or bond anticipation notes may also be issued by the authority to finance the acquisition or development of land as the site for an industrial park as provided in this amendment without a finding that the project will increase or maintain employment if the authority shall adopt a resolution finding that the tract of land to be included in the project is not intended for use by a single enterprise; will be suitable primarily for use as building sites for a group of enterprises engaged in industrial, distribution, or wholesale businesses; and that either:
(1)
The control and administration of the tract is to be vested in the authority or in another county or municipal or joint county and municipal development authority (or in a corporation organized under the Georgia Nonprofit Corporation Code) having as one of its purposes the development of trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities; or
(2)
The uses of such tract of land are to be regulated by protective restrictions to be approved by the authority and determined by the authority to be appropriate to encourage and facilitate use thereof by business enterprises engaged in industrial, distribution, or wholesale businesses. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 3834, § 1)
Sec. 5.89. - Bylaws and regulations.
The authority may make bylaws and regulations for its governance and may delegate to one (1) or more of its officers, agents, and employees such powers and duties as may be deemed necessary and proper. The authority shall have perpetual existence. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 3834, § 1)
Sec. 5.90. - Construction.
This amendment shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof, and insofar as this amendment may be inconsistent with the provisions of any other law, including the charter of any municipal corporation, this amendment shall be controlling. The sale or issuance of bonds by the authority shall not be subject to regulation under Chapter 5 of Title 10, the Georgia Securities Law, or any other law. No proceeding or publication not required in this amendment shall be necessary to the performance of any act authorized in this amendment, nor shall any such act be subject to referendum. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4151, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, 3834, § 1)
Sec. 5.91. - Effective date; appointment of first members.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 3834, § 1)
Editor's note— 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 3834, § 1, repealed paragraphs K and L of 1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1, which had been included as §§ 5.91 and 5.92 and renumbered §§ 5.93 and 5.94 as §§ 5.91 and 5.92.
Sec. 5.92. - General Assembly.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of the City of Griffin and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within Spalding County. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits. (1962 Ga. Laws, p. 945, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, p. 3834, § 1)
Note— See the editor's note to § 5.91.
