CHAPTER 3. - WATER AND SEWERAGE FACILITIES AUTHORITY

Sec. 5.21. - Short title.
This act may be cited as the "Spalding County Water and Sewerage Facilities Authority Act." (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 1)
Sec. 5.22. - Organization.
(a)
There is hereby created a public body corporate and politic, to be known as the "Spalding County Water and Sewerage Facilities Authority," which shall be deemed to be a public corporation and by such name, style and title, said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority or the trustee acting under any trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of its officers, agents or employees.
(b)
The authority shall be composed of six (6) members to be appointed by resolution of the governing body of Spalding County for initial terms of two (2), four (4) and six (6) years, and thereafter for staggered terms of six (6) years. At the time of the election of the first members, the governing body of Spalding County shall elect two (2) members for two (2) years, two (2) members for four (4) years and two (2) members for six (6) years, and thereafter the terms of all members shall be six (6) years. If, at the end of any term of office of any member, a successor thereto shall not have been elected, then the member whose term of office shall have expired shall continue to hold office until his successor shall be so elected.
(c)
Immediately after the passage of this act and the appointment of the members by the governing body of Spalding County, the members of the authority shall enter upon their duties, and as soon as is practicable thereafter, they shall hold an organizational meeting. The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairman and another as vice-chairman. The members shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer, or a secretary-treasurer who need not be members of the authority. An assistant secretary may also be elected at the discretion of the authority. Four (4) members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the authority of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and powers of and perform all of the duties and obligations of the authority. The members of the authority shall not be entitled to any compensation for their services, but shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority may make rules and regulations and adopt by-laws for its own government. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(d)
From and after April 30, 1988, the authority shall be composed of seven (7) members, with the initial term of such seventh member beginning on May 1, 1988, and ending on December 31, 1993; and the governing authority of Spalding County shall appoint the initial seventh member and shall appoint his successors for six-year terms, with the first such succeeding term beginning on January 1, 1994. If, at the end of any term of office of such seventh member, a successor thereof shall not have been appointed, then the person whose term of office shall have expired shall continue to hold such office as the seventh member of said authority until his successor shall be duly appointed and qualified to serve. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 2 1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4822, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 5.23. - Definitions.
As used in this act the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
Authority shall mean the Spalding County water and sewerage facilities authority created by Section 2 [section 5.22] of this act.
Cost of the project shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one (1) year after completion of construction, the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expense, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of the project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. The cost of any project may also include a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve and such other reserves as may be reasonably required by the authority with respect to the financing and operating of its projects and as may be authorized by any bond resolution or trust agreement or indenture pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any such bonds may be authorized. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act for such project.
Project shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition and construction of systems, plants, works, instrumentalities, and properties: (1) used or useful in connection with the obtaining of a water supply and the conservation, treatment, distribution and sale of water for public and private uses; (2) used or useful in connection with the collection, treatment and disposal of sewerage, waste and storm water; together with all parts of any such system, plant, work, instrumentality and property and all appurtenances thereto, including lands, easements, rights in land, water rights, contract rights, franchises, approaches, dams, reservoirs, generating stations, sewerage disposal plants, intercepting sewers, trunk connecting and other sewers and water mains, filtration works, pumping stations, and equipment.
Revenue bonds and bonds as used in this act, shall mean revenue bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to this act and revenue bonds may be issued by the authority as authorized herein without any other actions or proceedings.
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the sole judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including but not limited to any contractual payments, and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith, together with any grants, will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 3)
Sec. 5.24. - Powers.
The authority shall have the power:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes.
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this act except from the funds provided under the authority of this act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, provided no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance.
(d)
To enter into an agreement with the City of Griffin, with Spalding County or with any other political subdivision or municipal corporation of the state with respect to acquiring a source of water supply, providing sewerage service, preparing engineering data, plans and specifications for a water and sewerage system, extending water mains, apportioning the costs of constructing, extending and maintaining a water or sewerage system, or both, providing for the testing and inspection of facilities constructed, providing for rates to be charged for water and sewerage services furnished to users of the said system, providing for the reading of meters and keeping of pertinent records, apportioning or designating the responsibility for any functions normally maintained by a water and sewerage system, providing for the ownership of the various facilities constructed or acquired, and providing for such other matters or contingencies as might be necessary or desirable in order to secure for Spalding County and the municipalities therein, including the City of Griffin, and the residents of each a satisfactory and reliable water and sewerage system at the most reasonable cost possible.
(e)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations.
(f)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the state and all special districts and all municipal corporations located in Spalding County are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, special districts and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water and sewerage service and facilities or either of them by the authority to such municipal corporations, special districts and counties and by such municipal corporations, special districts and counties to the authority for a term not exceeding fifty (50) years. As to any political subdivision, department, institution or agency of this state and all special districts and municipal corporations located in Spalding County which shall enter into an agreement under the authority granted herein or in subsection (d) above, the obligation to perform and fulfill such agreement shall constitute a general obligation of such entity for which its full faith and credit shall be and hereby is pledged.
(g)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision thereof.
(h)
To make loans with, and accept grants or loans of money or materials or property of any kind from, the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose.
(i)
To make loans with, and accept grants or loans of money, materials or property of any kind from, the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency, instrumentality or political subdivision may impose.
(j)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes; to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof.
(k)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, including the power to make short term loans and to approve, execute and deliver appropriate evidence of any such indebtedness, providing, no such power is in conflict with the Constitution or general laws of this state.
(l)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this act. (182 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 4)
Sec. 5.25. - Financing projects.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one time, or from time to time, to borrow money for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost, as herein defined, or any one or more projects and to provide by resolution for issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for that purpose. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding thirty (30) years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. The interest rate or rates to be borne by any bonds and the time of payment of such interest shall be fixed, and with respect to any interest rate which floats in response to a variable the method of calculation shall be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Any bonds issued by the authority shall be exempt from all laws of the State of Georgia governing usury or prescribing or limiting interest rates to be borne by bonds or other obligations. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 5)
Sec. 5.26. - Revenue bonds—Form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place and places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state: The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for registration, conversion and exchangeability privileges, rights of redemption, and may contain such other terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 6)
Sec. 5.27. - Same—Signatures; seals.
All such bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairman or vicechairman of the authority, the attesting manual or facsimile signature of the secretary, assistant secretary or secretary-treasurer of the authority, and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto, either manually or by facsimile. The signature of one of such officers shall be placed manually on each bond. Any coupons attached thereto shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairman or vice-chairman and the secretary, assistant secretary or secretary-treasurer of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such persons and any bond may bear the facsimile signature of and may be manually signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of issuance of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bond or on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 7)
Sec. 5.28. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the State of Georgia pertaining to negotiable instruments. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds, their transfer and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the state. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 8)
Sec. 5.29. - Same—Sale; price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 9)
Sec. 5.30. - Same—Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit, which unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance over the bonds or in any trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issuance and shall be entitled to pay from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be used for paying the principal of and the interest on such bonds. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 10)
Sec. 5.31. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 11)
Sec. 5.32. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 12)
Sec. 5.33. - Same—Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular, special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as in this act provided. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 13)
Sec. 5.34. - Same—Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia, the City of Griffin or of Spalding County, nor a pledge of the faith and credit of the said state, city or county, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for, and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate said state, city or county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section. (1982 Ga. Laws, 4987, § 14)
Sec. 5.35. - Same—Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank within or without the state having the powers of a trust company. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, charges, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, and may also provide that any project shall be construed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of private corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 15)
Sec. 5.36. - Same—To whom proceeds of bond shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in any trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 16)
Sec. 5.37. - Same—Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, charges and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, tolls, charges, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated together with any grant funds, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one (1) or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest on such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal, interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in any trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 17)
Sec. 5.38. - Same—Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by any trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 18)
Sec. 5.39. - Same—Refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and to refund any revenue bonds issued by any city, county or authority with respect to any facilities to be acquired by the authority from any such city, county or authority. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 19)
Sec. 5.40. - Same—Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the superior court of Spalding County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 20)
Sec. 5.41. - Same—Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law, as now or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, a county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or any other party which has contracted with the authority to furnish or receive the services and facilities of the water and sewerage system for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality or other party shall be required to show cause, if any exist, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated, and the judgment of validation, shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, instrumentality or other party contracting with the said authority. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 21)
Sec. 5.42. - Same—Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions of this act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds. (1982 Ga. Laws, 4987, § 22)
Sec. 5.43. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as proceeds of short-term loans, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 23)
Sec. 5.44. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining and operating adequate water supply, treatment and distribution facilities and sewerage collection, treatment and distribution facilities, making such facilities and the services thereof available to public and private consumers and users located in the City of Griffin, Spalding County and their environs, including municipalities within and without the said county and to adjoining counties; extending and improving such facilities; and, doing all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient and desirable for an incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such type of undertakings. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 24)
Sec. 5.45. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls or charges, and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls or charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of the water and sewerage system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 25)
Sec. 5.46. - Tax-exempt status of authority.
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia, and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the state or any political subdivision thereof. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 26)
Sec. 5.47. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this act. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 27)
Sec. 5.48. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 28)
Sec. 5.49. - Liberal construction of act.
This act being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 29)
Sec. 5.50. - Effect of partial invalidity of act.
The provisions of this act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4987, § 30)
Secs. 5.51—5.60. - Reserved.
