CHAPTER 6. - SOCIAL SECURITY AND RETIREMENT

Sec. 2-6001. - Social Security.
(a)
The county, by and through its lawfully constituted board of county commissioners does hereby adopt the terms, conditions, requirements, reservations, benefits, privileges, and other conditions thereunto appertaining, of Title II of the Social Security Act, as amended by Public Law No. 761, 83rd Congress, for and on behalf of all the officers and employees thereof and of its departments and instrumentalities, save and except any of such officers and employees who occupies any position, office or any employment not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(b)
There shall be withheld from any salary or compensation due any such officer or employee not excepted as aforesaid whose compensation qualifies him or her to participation therein the percentary of salary, wage, or compensation required to be withheld by said Act, whether such compensation be computed in cash, quarters, subsistence, or in kind, and reserved in the treasury for quarterly remittance to the state agency.
(c)
There shall be appropriated from general funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state laws or regulations for employers' contributions and administrative expenses, and such funds shall be paid over to the state agency in accordance with regulations established by said agency.
(d)
The rules and regulations of the state agency for the enforcement of said act shall be adhered to and reports relating to personnel, payrolls, and otherwise required by said state agency shall be promptly made; remittance of the tax on the employer and the employees shall be promptly paid at the end of each quarter.
(e)
The clerk of the board of county commissioners is hereby designated the custodian of all sums withheld from the compensation of officers and employees and of the appropriated funds for the tax upon the county, and the clerk is hereby made the withholding and reporting agent and charged with the duty of maintaining personnel records for the purpose of this section.
(f)
The county, accordingly, by the adoption of this section, in full and ample manner by its lawfully constituted board of county commissioners, does hereby authorize the county to make and enter into this agreement with the State of Georgia, by and through its designated agency, the employees' retirement system of Georgia, in full accord with this section and said Social Security Act, as amended, and so afford its benefits to the officers and employees of the county and its instrumentalities, if any, to include any employees that are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner by said law provided.
(D-291, 4-13-56)
Sec. 2-6002. - Peace officers' retirement.
In the case of county employees who qualify, deductions shall be made for peace officers' retirement.
(E-61, 10-2-62)
Sec. 2-6003. - County pension plan and retirement program.
There is adopted by reference that certain plan known as the "County of Spalding Employees Pension Plan, " pursuant to an agreement executed on August 7, 1973, and made effective January l, 1973, of which plan a copy is filed in the office of the clerk, and said employees pension plan is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
Spalding County adopted the Association County Commissioners of Georgia Defined Benefit Plan for Spalding County Employees originally effective January 1, 1984. The defined benefit plan and plan amendments, as approved by the board of commissioners from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. No. 2019-07, 7-15-19)
