Part IV - PUBLIC WORKS
CHAPTER 1. - STREET IMPROVEMENTS AND ASSESSMENTS

Sec. 4-1001. - Title.
This chapter shall be known, and referred to, as the "Spalding County Street Improvement and Assessment Regulations." (E-129, § 1, 8-3-65)
Sec. 4-1002. - Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter and these regulations is to carry into effect the constitutional amendment reported in section 4.2 of this Code. (E-129, § 2, 8-3-65)
Sec. 4-1003. - Authority.
The above-mentioned powers and authority heretofore granted to the commissioners, as the governing authority of the county, shall be exercised in the manner hereinafter provided in this chapter. (E-129, § 3, 8-3-65)
Sec. 4-1004. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter certain terms and words used herein are hereby defined and shall be construed as follows:
(1)
Whenever the term "commissioners" is used in this chapter, it shall refer to the commissioners of Spalding County.
(2)
Whenever the term "improvements" is used in this chapter, it shall refer to improvements of public streets, roadways or sidewalks and shall include the construction, paving, maintaining or otherwise improving of such streets, roadways or sidewalks, including the improvements of the travel thereon or the drainage thereof, or both, which are now in existence or which may hereafter be opened, laid out or constructed all within the unincorporated areas of the county.
(3)
Whenever the term "owner" is used in this chapter, it shall refer to and shall be defined and construed to mean any person owning, having or holding any right, title or interest in and to any real property contiguous to or abutting such improvements as of the date of adoption of the authorizing resolution as hereinafter set out in section 4-1007; and the person or persons in whose name each such tract or parcel of abutting property has been last returned to the tax commissioners for ad valorem taxation, or in whose name it has been last assessed by the tax officials, shall be presumed to be the owner thereof until and unless evidence of ownership to the contrary is presented to the commissioners; and whenever such term is herein used in the plural it shall refer to more than one (1) such owner.
(4)
Whenever the term "county" is used in this chapter, it shall refer to the County of Spalding, a political subdivision of the state. (E-129, § 4, 8-3-65)
Sec. 4-1005. - Initiation of making improvements.
The making of any such improvements may be initiated either by a resolution proposed by one (1) or more commissioners and adopted by a majority of the commissioners at any annual, regular or special meeting or by a petition in -writing to the commissioners proposing and requesting specified improvements and signed by the person or persons owning at least two-thirds (⅔) of the total lineal footage of the property abutting such street or road proposed for such improvements. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 5)
Sec. 4-1006. - Approval or rejection.
When any such petition is presented to the commissioners, it may be rejected or approved, after any desired investigation or study, upon the adoption of a resolution by a majority of the commissioners at any regular or special meeting. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 6)
Sec. 4-1007. - Authorizing resolution and action upon approval.
If such petition is approved as aforesaid by resolution of the commissioners, or if a majority of the commissioners initiate the making of any such improvements by their own resolution, the commissioners, or the majority of them, shall by either such resolution provide the following data: (1) When or between which two (2) dates or events the making of such improvements shall be commenced, (2) The type of improvements to be made or the type of paving to be used or laid, (3) The approximate lineal distance or length of the road or street to be paved or improved, or the terminals thereof, and (4) The width of any such paving. They may also provide for such curbing, gutter, storm sewers, drop inlets, drainage works, grading or other work as they may deem necessary and incident to any proposed improvement. They shall also provide similar information or specifications for any sidewalks which they may decide to construct, pave, maintain or otherwise improve. They may also provide among other things, for making such improvements at such times, during such periods, in such manner and to such extent as they may deem necessary and proper in accordance with and pursuant to the above-mentioned constitutional authority and the pertinent laws of the state. Such resolution may be sometimes herein referred to as the "authorizing resolution." (E-129, 8-3-65, § 7)
Sec. 4-1008. - Work by contract or county.
The commissioners by a majority vote shall have the right to determine whether such improvements shall be made and such work done by contract or by the county. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 8)
Sec. 4-1009. - Work by contract.
In the event such improvements or work is to be made or done by contract with a municipality or a political subdivision of the state, such contract may be negotiated, agreed upon and executed without receiving bids, all as provided by the Constitution and laws of Georgia, for such contracts by counties with public bodies or political subdivisions. In the event such improvements or work are to be made or done by contract with a private contractor, the resolution shall provide for the receiving of sealed bids or proposals at a specified time and place. At such specified time and place the commissioners, or their delegated agent or representative, shall examine all bids received. Any such contract if awarded shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder, provided he can furnish the county with such written oath, contractor's bond, performance bond, payment bond or other bonds and instruments as may now or hereafter be deemed necessary by the commissioners or required by law for such contracts with the county. The commissioners, or a majority of them, shall have the right to waive any and all formalities in such bidding and to reject any and all bids and to readvertise for other bids when the bids submitted, in their judgment, are not satisfactory or are not in the best interest of the county to accept. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 9)
Sec. 4-1010. - Work by county.
In the event such improvements or work is to be made or done by the county, the county shall have the right to utilize the forces of the public works department of the county and to use its own employees, its machinery, tools and equipment, its materials and supplies, and to compute costs and charges there for according to the prevailing wage scales, salaries, compensation, uses, rentals, charges, practices and customs in the county area or locality. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 10)
Sec. 4-1011. - Notice.
When a resolution authorizing the making of any such improvements has been adopted by a majority of the commissioners, notice thereof shall be given, unless waived as herein after provided, to the owners of property abutting such improvements. Such notice shall be in writing and may consist of a copy of such authorizing resolution or may be in the form of a statement setting forth the following information, to wit: (1) The date of the adoption of such authorizing resolution, (2) When or between which two dates or events such improvements or work shall be commenced, (3) The type of improvements to be made or the type of paving to be used or laid, (4) The approximate lineal distance or length of the road or street to be paved or improved, or the designation of the terminals thereof, and (5) The width of any such paving. Such notice, unless waived as herein after provided, shall be given by the commissioners, their clerk, agent or attorney, or any one (1) of them, to the respective owners of property abutting such improvements by either of the methods hereinafter set out, to wit: (1) By the publication of such notice, being the publication of such authorizing resolution or publication of a statement as hereinbefore provided, in the newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements are published in the county once a week for two (2) weeks, being once on any day during one (1) calendar week and once on any day during the next succeeding week; or (2) By serving any such property owner with a copy of the authorizing resolution or a copy of the statement as hereinbefore provided in any one (1) of the methods hereinafter set out, to wit: (a) By handing such notice (being a copy of the resolution or a copy of the statement as aforesaid) to the property owner personally; (b) By handing such notice personally to any tenant in possession of such abutting property; (c) By leaving such notice at the property owner's residence or his most notorious place of abode; and (d) By sending such notice to the property owner by either registered or certified mail in an envelope, with sufficient postage thereon, addressed to such property owner at his address last known to the commissioners or to the tax commissioner of the county. The date of making and perfecting such service shall be the day on which such notice was either handed to the owner, handed to the tenant in possession, left at the owner's residence or most notorious place of abode or deposited in the mail in an envelope addressed to the property owner as aforesaid. The giving of such notice may be waived at any time, preceding or subsequent to the date of adoption of the authorizing resolution or the date of and option of the final resolution, by any property owner upon his giving such waiver in writing to the commissioners, or upon the payment of the costs of such improvements assessed against him, or upon his execution of any note, as hereinafter provided in section 4-1022, thereby promising in writing to pay the costs of such improvements assessed against him. A substantial compliance with the within and foregoing requirements as to notice, the giving thereof, the waiver thereof, or the contents of any such notice, shall be sufficient. The certificate of the person giving or serving such notice, as aforesaid, shall be sufficient evidence that such notice has been given or served in full compliance herewith. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 11)
Sec. 4-1012. - Action after notice.
In the event the owner or owners of more than one-third (⅓) of the abutting property or the lineal footage affected do not file a protest or protests, within the time and in the manner as hereinafter set out (being within thirty (30) days after the first day of publication of such notice, as aforesaid, or within twenty (20) days after each such respective owner of abutting property has waived or has been served with such notice, as aforesaid), the making of such improvements shall thereupon be construed as a public necessity and the commissioners may thereupon proceed to have such improvements or work made or completed and to determine and assess the costs of such improvements or work as hereinafter specified. Each owner of property abutting such improvements, who does not within thirty (30) days after the day of the first publication of such notice, as aforesaid, or within twenty (20) days after he has waived or has been served with such notice, as aforesaid, file a protest or protests as hereinafter provided, shall conclusively be presumed to have accepted the terms of such authorizing resolution and to have conclusively agreed by his silent acquiescence that such improvements are a public necessity and should be made and that the costs of all such improvements made shall be determined and assessed as herein after set out. Each such owner or person filing such protest, who does not within thirty (30) days after the day of the first publication of such notice, as aforesaid, or within twenty (20) days after each such respective owner of abutting property has waived or has been served with such notice, as aforesaid, or within ten (10) days after the date of confirmation of such authorizing resolution in the event a public hearing is required as hereinafter set out in section 4-1014, whichever date or event is the later, file and commence legal proceedings to contest the making of such improvements or the assessment of the costs thereof, shall conclusively be presumed to have accepted the terms of such authorizing resolution and to have conclusively agreed by his silent acquiescence that such improvements are a public necessity and should be made and that the costs of all such improvements made shall be determined and assessed as hereinafter set out. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 12)
Sec. 4-1013. - Protests.
Within thirty (30) days after the first day of publication of such notice, or within twenty (20) days after each owner of abutting property has waived or has been served with such notice, as aforesaid, each such abutting property owner, respectively, or any other person or persons affected, may protest the making of any part of all of such improvements by submitting and filing at the office of the commissioners such protest in writing signed or executed by the property owner, person or persons filing such protest. Each such protest shall specify and designate the part or portions of such proposed improvements objected to and the reason or reasons for such protest or objection, and if such protestant claims that he or his property shall be adversely affected or damaged by such improvements, or the making thereof, his protest shall include a statement or recital as to why, how and to what extent such improvements, or the making thereof, or the portion or portions thereof objected to and protested, are claimed to adversely affect or damage him or his property. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 13)
Sec. 4-1014. - Action after protest.
Within thirty (30) days after the filing of any such protest or protests by the owner or owners of more than one-third (⅓) of the abutting property or the lineal footage affected, the commissioners shall reconvene in regular or special session and shall reconsider such authorizing resolution for rejection or recision or for confirmation or ratification. The commissioners shall give careful consideration to all objections made and all protests filed and to the desirability of making the proposed improvements. Any such meeting may be recessed or continued from time to time by the commissioners, or a majority of them, and other regular or special meetings of the commissioners may be held during any such recess or continuance, all within the sole discretion of the commissioners, or a majority of them. Before or during any such meeting or session, or any recess thereof, the commissioners shall make such investigations with reference to said improvements as they may deem appropriate. If protests by the owners of more than one-half (½) of the abutting property or the lineal footage affected have filed, within the time and in the manner as hereinbefore set out, and have not subsequently been withdrawn before or at any time during such meeting, or any recess thereof, then, and in such event, the commissioners shall reject or rescind the authorizing resolution before adjourning such meeting, provided however that if such meeting shall be finally adjourned without taking such action the authorizing resolution, so protested, shall thereupon be considered and be deemed to have been thereby rejected and rescinded by the commissioners as forcefully and effectively as if it had been formally rejected or rescinded by an overt act or resolution of the commissioners. Likewise, if the owners of more than one-half (½) of the abutting property or the lineal footage affected, who personally appear or are personally represented by agents or attorneys authorized in writing to represent such owners at said meeting, orally oppose or voice objections to the making of such proposed improvements then, and in such event, the commissioners shall not confirm or ratify such authorizing resolution at such meeting until and unless the owners of more than one-half (½) the abutting property or the lineal footage affected consent or agree to the making of such improvement. At any time, either before or during any such meeting and before or after the withdrawal of any or all protests or objections, such authorizing resolution may be rejected or rescinded by the commissioners, or a majority of them, when such action is deemed by them to be meet and proper or in after the best interests of the county under the circumstances. The decision made by the commissioners, or a majority of them, at such meeting with reference to said improvements shall be entered on the minutes of the meetings of the commissioners, and if the construction or making of such proposed improvements is confirmed, ratified or ordered, the same shall be construed as a public necessity. Thereupon all matters relating to the construction or making of such proposed improvements and the determination and assessment of costs thereof against the abutting property and the owners thereof shall be determined and done as hereinafter provided. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 14)
Sec. 4-1015. - Public hearing.
Each such meeting or session at which such protests are considered shall be open to the public and any protestant, as aforesaid, shall have the right to be present in person, with any agents, attorneys or witnesses desired by him, and present any pertinent evidence substantiating his protests or objections to such proposed improvements or the making thereof. Any protestant may make arrangements to have all, or any part, of such evidence transcribed or recorded for him at his sole expense upon his giving notice in writing to the commissioners at their office at least two (2) days before the date of such meeting of his intention to do so, in which event he shall cause a complete copy of such transcript and record to be furnished the county contemporaneously with his receipt of such transcript or record at no expense whatever to the county. If the commissioners, or a majority of them, desire they may likewise have all, or any part, of such testimony or evidence transcribed or recorded for them at the expense of the county, and in the event the construction or making of such improvements is subsequently confirmed, ratified or ordered, as aforesaid, such expense of the county may be included as a part of the costs of such improvements. In the event the evidence is transcribed or recorded at the instance of any protestant or the commissioners, as aforesaid, any other protestant present, or represented by legal counsel, shall have the right of ordering, purchasing and obtaining a transcript or copy of such record from the reporter by orally requesting same Section 4-1015 such meeting convenes but before any testimony or evidence is offered or tendered by any protestant. The rules governing admissibility of such evidence shall be applied and administered by the presiding officer of the commissioners at such meeting, or by his delegated agent, attorney or representative, and shall be the same rules as those governing the admissibility of evidence in the superior court of the county. Any protestant, as aforesaid, desiring to be present at such meeting shall, if so requested in his written protest, be entitled to receive notice of the time and place that such meeting shall be held, provided however that such protestant shall in his written protest state his mailing address to which he requests that such notice be sent. The commissioners, their clerk, agent or attorney, or any one (1) of them, may give such notice by sending a statement of the time and place that such meeting shall be held by certified mail at least three (3) days before the date of such meeting to any protestant so requesting such notice at his mailing address as given in his written protest, and in the event such mailing address is not given as aforesaid such protestant shall thereby have waived his right to receive such notice. The certificate of the person giving or mailing any such notice shall be sufficient evidence that such notice has been given in full compliance herewith. In the event such authorizing resolution, after such protest, is confined or ratified by the commissioners, the commissioners upon the expiration of ten (10) days after such confirmation may proceed as soon as they deem it practicable to have such improvements or work made or done and to determine and assess the costs of such improvements or work as hereinafter specified, unless legal actions which interfere with or prevent the making of such improvements and assessments shall have been commenced. In the event such authorizing resolution is rejected or rescinded, as aforesaid, a petition by property owners, as hereinbefore provided, proposing the making of the same or similar improvements, so rejected, shall not be reconsidered by the commissioners within six (6) months after such rejection; however the making of such improvements so rejected may be reconsidered at any time upon a resolution proposed by one (1) or more of the commissioners and unanimously approved and adopted by all of the commissioners at any annual, regular or special meeting of the commissioners. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 15)
Sec. 4-1016. - Costs.
After such improvements or work has been completed, the costs of such improvements or work shall be determined by resolution of the commissioners, or a majority of them. The costs shall include the costs or expenses of acquiring necessary rights-of-way and the costs or charges of the improvements or work made or done by contract or by the county, and may include the costs of making such improvements on, at costs of administration, supervision and inspection, interest on money allocated or used to assume or pay such costs, and all other costs and expenses incurred in connection with such improvements or work. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 16)
Sec. 4-1017. - Portion of costs assumed by county.
After such costs have been determined, as aforesaid, the county shall assume or pay one-third (⅓) of all such costs. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 17)
Sec. 4-1018. - Assessments.
The remaining two-thirds (⅔) of all such costs shall be equitably assessed by resolution of the commissioners, or a majority of them. Such assessments shall be declared, made and apportioned against the respective owners of the property abutting such improvements (exclusive of the owners of any public street or road intersected or joined by such improvements) pro rata and in the direct proportion that the length of frontage of each such owner's parcel or tract of abutting property bears to the total frontage improved. Such total frontage improved shall include both sides of the improvement or street, exclusive of the frontage or width of any public street or road intersected or joined by such improvements, provided however that such assessments made solely for grading, paving, or otherwise improving sidewalks or installing curbs and gutters shall be apportioned against the respective owners of the property on the particular side of the street or road abutting such sidewalk, curb, gutter or in that the length of frontage of each such owner's improvement pro rata and in the direct proportion street or road exclusive of the frontage or width of any public street or road intersected or joined by such sidewalk, curb, gutter or improvement. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 18)
Section 4-1019. - Assessment book.
The clerk shall provide and keep a permanent and well-bound book to be known as the "Spalding County Assessment Book for Street Improvements" and shall provide additional volumes as the same are needed. Each volume shall bear a separate number or letter and the pages thereof shall be numbered consecutively. The book shall be so indexed as to show each street or each improvement and shall contain appropriate columns for a county tax map reference or a brief description of each parcel of land assessed, the name of the apparent owner, the lineal frontage on such street or improvement and the amount of the assessment apportioned against each parcel or tract of property abutting such street or such improvement. No error, omission or mistake in regard to the name of the owner shall invalidate any assessment. Corrections may be made by the clerk of any entry in any such assessment book by delineating the incorrect or improper entry and substituting in lieu thereof the added, revised or corrected entry and each such correction shall bear the initials of the clerk in the margin of the page and opposite such correction within the insertion of the date of any such correction. Each such book shall be a public record, and the entry therein of any assessment shall constitute a notice to the public of the lien against the land so assessed. (E-129, 8-3-65, § 19)
Section 4-1020. - Lien of assessments.
The resolution adopted by the commissioners authorizing any such improvements, as hereinbefore set out in section 4-1007, shall also provide for the making of a general assessment of the cost against the abutting property owners, and such resolution shall thereby create an inchoate lien against such abutting property. Such lien, however, shall become fixed as to the amount upon the adoption of the final resolution apportioning the specific assessments, as hereinbefore provided in section 4-1018, and such specific assessments shall date and rank from the date of adoption of such final resolution. The liens so created shall have the same rank and character as liens for and valorem taxes due the county, and co-equal with the liens for such ad valorem taxes, and all persons shall be charged with the notice of the existence of said liens effective from the date of the adoption of the authorizing resolution making the general assessment and the recording of such authorizing resolution on the minutes of the meetings of the commissioners. (E-129, § 20, 8-3-65)
Sec. 4-1021. - Due date of assessments.
All such assessments shall be due and payable to the county sixty (60) days from the date of adoption by the commissioners of the final resolution fixing the total costs of the improvements and making the assessments against the abutting property owners. Each such assessment shall bear interest at the rate of six (6) per cent per annum from its due date. Any owner, however, may elect to pay the whole or any part of any such assessment in installments in the manner hereinafter provided. Where no such election is made or where a default occurs in the payment of the assessment, an execution may be issued for the enforcement of such assessment. Such execution shall be issued in the name of the county and shall bear interest at the rate of seven (7) per cent per annum from the date of issuance and may be enforced by levy and sale by the sheriff of the county in the same manner that and valorem tax executions are enforced. Such execution may be recorded on the general execution docket in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county in the same manner and for the same purposes and effect as provided by law for recording and valorem tax executions. (E-129, § 21, 8-3-65)
Sec. 4-1022. - Installment payments, notes and executions.
Any such owner may elect, as aforesaid, to pay the whole or any part of any such assessment in five (5) or less equal annual installments of principal plus accrued interest thereon, payable annually, at the rate of six (6) per cent per annum from the due date of such assessment. Each property owner desiring to avail himself of the installment plan of payment shall, within sixty (60) days after the final assessment is made, execute and deliver to the commissioners such note or notes, payable to the county, in such form and tenor as the commissioners shall prescribe, to bear interest at the aforesaid rate and to mature as provided by the terms of such note so long as such maturity date does not exceed five (5) years and thirty-one (31) days from the due date of such assessment. The maker or makers of any such note shall have the right and privilege on the due date of any such annual installment payment of prepaying the entire principal amount of any such note, then outstanding and unpaid, or prepaying the entire last annual installment payment of any such note, then outstanding and unpaid, thereby retiring such prepaid principal without further interest. Each such note or notes shall be negotiable in form and shall constitute a lien against the property so assessed, which property shall be referred to or briefly described in each such note or instrument. In case of a default in the payment of any one of the installments, then and in such event the remainder of said installments shall, at the option of the holder of such note, immediately become due and payable and the commissioners, or any person to whom any such note has been transferred or assigned, shall have the right to have execution issued thereon for the full balance due with interest to the date of the issuance of such execution. Such holder may proceed to enforce the execution by levy upon the property described in such note, or any other property of the owner within the county, such execution to be levied and enforced by the sheriff of the county, or his lawful deputies, in the same manner and in accordance with the pertinent laws of Georgia regulating and governing other sheriff's sales in the county. Each such execution shall be issued in the name of the county, and shall bear teste in the name of the governing authority of said county, being the commissioners, and be signed by the clerk. If the note for the assessment has been transferred by the county to another holder, the execution shall issue and be enforced in the name of the county but for the benefit and use of the holder of such note. (E-129, § 22, 8-3-65; Res. of 10-3-78, § 1)
Sec. 4-1023. - Affidavits of illegality.
The defendant in any such execution shall have the right to contest the legality of the same, including the amount due, if any ground for such contest exists. The procedure for contesting any such execution shall be by an affidavit of illegality as provided by the laws of Georgia, and the procedure thereon shall be the same as that provided for the contesting of the legality of executions for ad valorem taxes. If the defendant should contest the legality of the execution, he shall state what amount, if any, he admits to be correctly due, and before filing any such affidavit of illegality he shall pay such admitted amount to the county, and state that he has paid such admitted amount due in his proceedings contesting the legality or unpaid amount of such execution. All such affidavits so filed shall be returned to the superior court of the county; and the issue thus made shall be determined as provided by the laws of Georgia in cases of illegality, expressly subject to the penalties provided by law in cases of illegality filed for delay. (E-129, § 23, 8-3-65)
Sec. 4-1024. - Transfer of executions.
Any execution issued under the provisions of the within county street improvement and assessment regulations may be sold, transferred or assigned by the sheriff or his lawful deputy, when so authorized and directed by the commissioners as the governing authority of the county; and property of the defendant therein may be levied upon and sold in the same manner and in accordance with the pertinent laws of Georgia providing for and regulating the sale, transfer, assignment, recording, levy and enforcement of ad valorem tax executions. (E-129, § 24, 8-3-65)
Sec. 4-1025. - Eminent domain.
The commissioners, as the governing authority of the county, are empowered, as provided by the Constitution and laws of Georgia, to acquire whatever property may be necessary to the making of any of the improvements for which provision is herein made and to this end hereby reserve the right and privilege to exercise any and all of the powers of eminent domain, as provided by law, in effecting this chapter and in executing and enforcing the within regulations. (E-129, § 25, 8-3-65)
Sec. 4-1026. - Rights and powers cumulative.
All of the rights, remedies and powers herein set out to be executed by the county or the commissioners as its governing authority or the clerk or any officer of the county shall not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be cumulative and not restrictive of any other rights, remedies and powers under the laws of the state; and the failure to exercise any such right, remedy or power at any time shall not constitute a waiver to subsequently exercise any such right, remedy or power. (E-129, § 26, 8-3-65)
Sec. 4-1207. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 702 of the Subdivision Ordinance of Spalding County, adopted April 26, 1994, and included herein as Appendix A to Appendix IV (Zoning), repealed former section 4-1027 in its entirety. Former section 4-1027 pertained to specifications for subdivision streets and derived from E-129, § 27, 2-20-73; Ord. of 12-5-89, § 1; Ord. No. 93-03, § 1, 4-21-93.
Sec. 4-1028. - Specifications for driveways.
(a)
Driveway standards. The drawing on page 4-11, labeled "Spalding County Driveway Standard," provides the minimum standards for driveways in the county.
(b)
Driveway pipes or culverts.
(1)
Pipes or culverts installed for driveways shall be 16 gauge corrugated metal pipes with beveled ends, 26 feet in length or longer. No PVC, plastic or other types of culvert shall be used.
(2)
Each driveway culvert shall be covered with a minimum of twelve (12) inches of dirt cover, unless the terrain or other construction conditions require a variance which may be obtained from the public works director, or his designee, or upon his denial from the board of commissioners if granted by said board.
SPALDING COUNTY DRIVEWAY STANDARD
(1)
Concrete driveway: Four-inch concrete.
(2)
Crusher run driveway: Six-inch crusher run.
(3)
Asphalt driveway: Six-inch crusher run, prime coat, two-inch E mix topping.
From radius point to radius point must be twenty (20) feet wide minimum. Concrete must be 3000 D.O.T. mix.
Notice must be given to Spalding County Public Works Department (770-467-4774) twenty-four (24) hours prior to installing driveway pipe before covering with dirt. Contact Community Development at 770-467-4220 before pouring concrete on county right-of-way. Please give twenty-four (24) hours notice.
There shall be no charge for the first inspection. If, for any reason, the proposed driveway does not meet Spalding County Standards, or the landowner does not comply with the ordinance and the public works director/designee has to return, the property owner shall first pay a reinspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) prior to any subsequent inspection.
(3)
Cover materials shall be at a grade level lower than the roadway, back to the center of the ditch, so as to eliminate or reduce traffic problems.
(c)
Driveway permits
(1)
No driveway shall be constructed or permitted until a permit therefor is issued.
(2)
An application for such permit shall be filed with the Spalding County public works director at least three (3) days before issuance of a permit to allow ample time for the public works director, or his designee, to determine whether the proposed size of the pipe is suitable, whether a ditch is required and whether the proposed ditch will provide for proper drainage. Prior to the land owner requesting the public works director to inspect the property, the owner shall identify the area for the desired driveway by staking same with a sufficient number of stakes to clearly indicate the location of the proposed driveway. If the public works director comes to the property to inspect the location of the proposed driveway at the request of the land owner, and the proposed driveway is not staked as aforesaid, then no permit shall be issued until the land owner has paid a fifty-dollar ($50.00) reinspection fee, in advance. Each subsequent trip to the site of the proposed driveway, necessitated by the land owner's failure to stake the proposed location, shall likewise result in a fifty-dollar ($50.00) reinspection fee.
(3)
Once the drainage pipe has been placed and the driveway has been constructed, the land owner shall request the public works director to make a final inspection. There shall be no charge for this inspection. However, if for any reason the public works director needs to return to the driveway for an additional inspection trip, then, prior to making an additional inspection, the land owner shall be required to pay to the public works department the reinspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). Each inspection made by the public works director after the initial free inspection shall result in a fifty-dollar ($50.00) fee being paid in advance by the land owner.
(4)
If the property owner desires to pave his driveway with either concrete or asphalt, then such paving must comply with Spalding County driveway standards which require four (4) inches—3000 mix concrete or six (6) inches crusher run and prime coat two (2) inches of "E" mix topping. Prior to paving the driveway, the property owner shall first install the concrete forms or asphalt preparations, which shall be set to Spalding County driveway standards. Once these forms or asphalt preparations are in place, the property owner shall request the Spalding County Building Official or his designee to inspect the forms or the asphalt preparations. There shall be no charge for the first inspection. Once the building official has made his inspection and finds that the concrete forms or asphalt preparation set meet Spalding County's driveway standards, then the property owner shall be free to pave his driveway. If the building official has to return to the property for another inspection for any reason, then the property owner shall first pay a reinspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) prior to any subsequent inspection. Each subsequent trip to the site of the proposed driveway, necessitated by the land owner's failure to comply with this section, shall result in a fifty-dollar ($50.00) fee being paid, in advance, by the property owner.
(d)
Improperly installed driveways.
(1)
Any driveway installed without first obtaining a permit therefor, as herein set forth, may be removed by the county from the road right-of-way, if the property owner fails to apply for a driveway permit, as hereinbefore provided, within thirty (30) days after being so notified by the county. Upon such application for the driveway being made, a permit may then be issued, as hereinabove provided, for the driveway to be reconstructed by the owner in compliance with the specifications and requirements as hereinbefore set out. In the event no application for a permit is filed, the county shall have the right to remove any nonpermitted driveway, or any driveway not constructed in compliance with these specifications or requirements herein set out, from the road right-of-way, and thereafter the property owner may deposit a dollar amount commensurate to the pipe size required for driveway with the public works director; and thereupon the county shall reconstruct or replace such driveway, pursuant to the specifications set out herein.
(e)
Temporary driveway. In the event the property owner needs temporary access for less than twelve (12) months to and from a county road, he shall deposit a dollar amount commensurate to the pipe size required for driveway with the public works director along with his application for temporary driveway permit. Upon approval he shall then be permitted to construct such temporary driveway on the county's road right-of-way as specified and permitted by the roads superintendent, or his designee. Upon the termination of the permitted period of time, the permittee shall remove the temporary driveway and restore such right-of-way to the physical condition of such right-of-way that existed when the the dollar amount commensurate to the pipe size required for driveway was deposited so as to be eligible to make application to the public works director to obtain such deposit upon verification by the roads superintendent that the right-of-way has been so restored. If the permittee fails to remove such temporary driveway or to restore such right-of-way, as hereinabove provided, the county shall retain the deposit commensurate with the pipe size required for driveway.
(Ord. No. 91-14, § 1, 9-17-91; Ord. No. 97-05, § 1, 6-3-97; Ord. No. 97-11, § 1, 9-16-97; Ord. No. 97-11A, § 1, 10-21-97; Ord. No. 2000-10, § 1, 9-11-00; Ord. No. 2001-02, § 1, 2-19-01; Ord. No. 2006-04, § 1, 8-7-06; Ord. No. 2007-11, § 1, 8-6-07)
Sec. 4-1029. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 702 of the Subdivision Ordinance of Spalding County, adopted April 26, 1994, and included herein as Appendix A to Appendix IV (Zoning), repealed former section 4-1029 in its entirety. Former section 4-1029 pertained to requirements for approval of preliminary road plans for subdivision streets and roads and derived from an Ord. of 9-1-87, § 1.
CHAPTER 2. - REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The constitution amendment authorizing the county to enact regulations relating to solid waste disposal (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 2315) was continued in effect after July 1, 1987, by § 1 of 1987 Ga. Laws, p. 3689.

ARTICLE A. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-2001. - Purpose.
The purpose of the rules and regulations contained in this chapter is to provide for the protection of the public health by prescribing the manner of storage, collection, transportation and disposal of residential and industrial waste, rubbish, garbage and refuse.
Sec. 4-2002. - Definitions.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used in this chapter shall be as follows:
(1)
Collection. The work of collecting and/or transporting solid waste from industries, offices, retail outlets, businesses, institutions and/or similar locations, or from residential dwellings; provided, however, that this definition shall not include an individual collecting and/or transporting waste from his own single-family dwelling unit.
(2)
Disposal facility. Any facility or location where any treatment, utilization, processing or deposition of solid waste occurs.
(3)
Disposal operation. The performance of solid waste disposal, including administration, personnel, land, equipment, design and other elements necessary or used in the work of solid waste disposal.
(4)
Disposal site. The location or land area where the final deposition of solid waste occurs.
(5)
Garbage. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
(6)
Hazardous waste. Solid or liquid waste material resulting from the manufacture or use of pesticides and drugs (other than normal household use); pathological wastes; highly flammable or explosive wastes; toxic wastes; sewage sludges; and other waste material determined to be a likely hazard to the public health, safety, or environment, except radioactive waste materials as provided for in Rules of the Department of Human Resources, Chapter 270-5-20, entitled "Radioactive Materials."
(7)
Industrial waste. Waste materials generated in industrial operations.
(8)
Open dump. A disposal site at which solid waste from one (1) or more sources is consolidated and left to decompose, burn, or to otherwise create environmental pollution or nuisance.
(9)
Putrescible wastes. Wastes that are capable of being decomposed by microorganisms, including kitchen waste, manure, offal, hatchery and poultry wastes and garbage.
(10)
Refuse. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, abandoned automobiles and solid commercial and industrial wastes.
(11)
Rubbish. Nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
(12)
Reclamation. A controlled method of sorting and storing solid wastes for future use in accordance with an approved plan.
(13)
Sanitary landfilling. A method of disposing of putrescible waste and/or hazardous waste on land by placing an earth cover thereon.
(14)
Scavenge. Uncontrolled picking from discarded waste materials.
(15)
Solid waste. Putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, except water carried body wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street refuse, sewage sludges, animal manures, industrial wastes, residue from incineration, food-processing wastes, construction wastes, hazardous wastes, and any other waste material in a solid or semisolid state not otherwise defined in this chapter.
(16)
Solid waste handling. The storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposing of solid wastes, or any combination thereof.
(17)
Transfer station. A facility used to transfer solid wastes from one transportation vehicle to another for transportation to a disposal facility.
Sec. 4-2003. - Precollection.
(a)
In general. No person shall keep or store solid waste outside of any residence or building in the county except in proper containers for collection or otherwise prepared, as set forth herein or under the express prior approval of the county. Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. The county by written notice shall notify the owner or occupant of any premises with such solid waste accumulation to remove same. Failure to remove such accumulation within two (2) weeks of the date of such written notice to do so shall be deemed a violation of these regulations.
(b)
Containers.
(1)
Garbage containers shall be provided by the owner or occupant of each residence or establishment sufficient in number to accommodate such waste generated by the residence or establishment between collections. Containers shall be of durable metal or plastic, watertight, nonabsorbent, rust-resistant, rodent-proof, and easily cleanable. They shall be equipped with handles and tightly fitted covers and shall have a capacity of not less than fifteen (15) gallons nor more than thirty-five (35) gallons, except that bulk containers of a type accepted by the county as suitable for mechanical collection by publicly owned equipment used for such collection may be approved. Containers failing to comply with these provisions or which have defects causing them to scatter waste upon the ground during collection or causing them to hamper or to injure the persons collecting waste shall be promptly replaced.
(2)
Disposable paper or plastic bags of a type, size and material designed for solid waste disposal may be used to contain refuse for storage and collection, provided they are unbroken, sealed, and loaded in such manner that normal handling will not cause the bag to open.
(c)
Rubbish. Rubbish may be stored for collection in paper-board boxes or other throw-away containers strong enough to retain the waste; loose paper or cuttings shall be tied in bundles. Rubbish containers or bundles shall not exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight. Limbs or cuttings shall not exceed four (4) inches in diameter nor four (4) feet in length. Rubbish containers or bundles shall be placed for collection beside the solid waste containers.
(d)
Placement. On days designated as collection days for the respective routes by the county, garbage and/or rubbish shall be placed for collection on the curb or beside the roadway in front of the residence or establishment owning same, or if the property abuts on an alley, at the rear of the property, but not in the gutter or in the street or alley in such manner as to interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(e)
Scavenging. No person other than the owner or authorized collection personnel shall sift the contents of or remove anything from containers, boxes or bundles containing garbage or rubbish.
Sec. 4-2004. - Collection.
(a)
Frequency. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected from residential premises, commercial and business establishments as determined by the board or its designee. Schedules shall be kept on file in the office of the clerk of the board.
(b)
Limitations. Industrial waste, asbestos, materials containing asbestos, waste contaminated with asbestos, animals, or waste from construction, demolition, landscaping or processing operations will not be collected, transported or disposed of by public facilities; but such waste collection, transportation, and disposal shall be by the owners and/or generators of such waste or animals. It shall be a violation of these regulations to place or to cause to be placed in any container, box or bundle, or otherwise for collection, any asbestos, materials containing asbestos, or waste contaminated with asbestos, or any hazardous waste of any kind unless approval and written permission therefor has been first obtained from the governing authority of the county.
(c)
Collection vehicles. Vehicles used for collection and transportation of solid waste shall be kept clean and in good repair. They shall be construed in such manner that the contents thereof cannot be spilled, leaked or blown from the vehicle.
(Res. of 11-3-87, § 1)
Sec. 4-2005. - Disposal.
All disposal of solid waste shall be at official disposal sites. Waste deposited at any site operated by the county shall be placed as designated by any county attendant on duty or in a bulk container located near the site entrance gate for the purpose of receiving such waste. Operating hours shall be as indicated on signs at the site. Motor vehicle bodies or major parts thereof, large appliances, stumps, or logs over four (4) feet in length shall not be deposited at publicly operated disposal sites except by prior permission.
Sec. 4-2006. - Fees.
Charges for public collection and disposal of solid waste shall be fixed by the board and kept on file in the office of the clerk.
Secs. 4-2007—4-2010. - Reserved.
ARTICLE B. - COUNTY CONTAINERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted March 6, 1979, did not specifically amend this Code; hence its inclusion as §§ 4-2011—4-2015 was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 4-2011. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be referred to as the "Garbage and Solid Waste Disposal Ordinance of Spalding County."
(Ord. of 3-6-79, § 1)
Sec. 4-2012. - Definitions.
In the construction of this article the following definitions and rules shall be observed, except when the context clearly indicates a different meaning and unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the commissioners in adopting this article:
(a)
Commissioners. The words or terms "board of commissioners" or "commissioners" shall mean the board of commissioners of Spalding County, Georgia.
(b)
County. The word or term "county" shall mean the County of Spalding, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(c)
Collection container. The words or term "collection container" shall mean a container provided by the county and placed in the unincorporated area thereof to be used for the collection and disposal of garbage and solid waste.
(d)
Collection area. The words or term "collection area" shall mean an area provided or designated by the county to be used for the collection and disposal of garbage and solid waste or for the location of collection containers.
(e)
Household garbage. The words or term "household garbage" shall mean animal, vegetable, and fruit refuse matter ordinarily generated as by-products of a household, such as tin cans, bottles, paper, cardboard, plastics, and wrapping or packaging materials.
(Ord. of 3-6-79, § 2; Ord. No. 90-8, § 1, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 99-01, § 1, 1-19-99)
Sec. 4-2013. - Administration.
The county administrator, or his designated representative, is hereby granted, and shall hereafter have, the power and authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection and disposal of garbage and solid waste in Spalding County.
(Ord. of 3-6-79, § 5)
Sec. 4-2014. - Regulations.
In order to govern and police the county for the purpose of protecting and preserving the health, safety, welfare and morals of the citizens thereof, the following garbage and solid waste disposal regulations are hereby adopted:
(a)
The county has placed garbage and solid waste collection containers in several locations or collection areas, and the county may from time to time hereafter provide other such collection containers and collection areas in the county; and only household garbage, as herein defined, may be dumped or placed in such garbage and solid waste containers as provided by the county. Such containers shall be clearly marked for "household garbage only" by signs on or near such containers. If a container is clearly marked "household garbage only," it shall be unlawful and in violation of this article for any person to dump any refuse or other material into the container other than household garbage.
(b)
It shall be unlawful and in violation of this article to dump or place any such items outside such collection containers or to leave any such items at such collection areas unless such items have been dumped or placed inside one (1) or more of the collection containers located at such collection area.
(c)
It shall be unlawful and in violation of this article to dump, place or leave any other items, property or matter at any such garbage and solid waste collection area or in any collection container at any such collection area, except as hereinbefore provided in subsection (a) of this section.
(d)
It shall be unlawful and in violation of this article to dump, place or leave bricks, blocks, rocks, lumber, asphalt, cement, concrete, concrete products or waste, roofing, sheetrock, any asbestos, materials containing asbestos waste contaminated with asbestos, leaves, limbs, bushes, trees, roots, appliances, equipment, bed springs, mattresses, furniture, fixtures, motors, engines, chemical wastes, industrial or commercial waste or rubbish, scrap metal, vehicles or parts thereof, building materials or supplies, and inorganic solid material of any type or kind except as hereinbefore authorized in subsection (a) of this section at any such garbage or solid waste collection area or in any such collection container.
(e)
Scavenging from any collection container is prohibited, and it shall be unlawful and in violation of this article for any person except as duly authorized by the board of commissioners to enter, examine, sift through the contents of, or remove any matter from any collection container.
(f)
The placement of garbage and solid waste collection containers in several locations or collection areas is for the convenience and use, in accordance with the provisions of this article, of Spalding County residents only. It shall be unlawful and in violation of this article for any person to dump, place or leave any item at such garbage and solid waste collection area or in any collection container unless such person is a resident of Spalding County with a driver's license showing Spalding County as the county of residence or unless the person owns real property in Spalding County and has a received a decal issued by the of Spalding County Public Works.
Any resident of Spalding County who because of some hardship is unable to comply with the foregoing requirement in the paragraph above may apply in writing to the county manager for a special permit. This determination shall be made on a case by case basis and anyone dissatisfied with the action taken by the county manager may appeal his decision to the board of commissioners.
(g)
It shall be unlawful and in violation of this article for any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of any type of garbage and/or solid waste collection or any landscaping companies to dump, place or leave said garbage and solid waste collected in the conduct of business at any garbage and solid waste collection area or in any collection container.
The commissioners hereby reserve and retain the right and authority to make and publish from time to time additional rules and regulations, pursuant to the powers granted by the Constitution of Georgia of 1976, as amended, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Georgia or the constitution of this state or the United States, for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and the collection and disposal of garbage and solid waste in Spalding County.
(Ord. of 3-6-79, §§ 3, 6; Amend. of 9-2-80; Ord. of 3-27-84, § 1; Res. of 11-3-87, § 2; Ord. No. 90-8, §§ 2, 3, 3-20-90; Ord. No. 98-13, § 1, 1-19-99; Ord. No. 99-07, § 1, 6-1-99; Ord. No. 2018-06, 4-2-18)
Sec. 4-2015. - Violations and enforcement.
(a)
Any person who shall do anything prohibited by this chapter as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended, or who shall fail to do anything required by this chapter as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended, is hereby declared to be in violation of this chapter and the pertinent regulations or county ordinances herein set forth.
(b)
Each and every day that any such violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
(c)
Any such violation, upon conviction thereof, as prescribed by the laws of Georgia, shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment, or both, not to exceed the maximum fine or the maximum imprisonment, or both, as prescribed by the pertinent laws of Georgia and as more particularly set out in section 1-1007 of this Code, which such section is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference.
(d)
The imposition of any such fine or imprisonment, or both, for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such violators shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within the time as prescribed by the court having jurisdiction of such matter, and, in the absence of any such completion time being fixed by the court, within a reasonable time after such violations occur.
(e)
The application of any fine, imprisonment or other penalty shall not be construed to prevent the enforced removal or prohibited conditions or to postpone any action required.
(f)
The remedies herein set out for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be exclusive, but shall be cumulative of all other remedies, civil or criminal, provided by the laws of Georgia, or by the ordinances of Spalding County.
(Ord. of 3-6-79, § 4; Res. of 12-18-84, § 2; Res. of 6-7-88, § 3)
CHAPTER 5. - MAILBOX REQUIREMENTS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 95-12, § 1, adopted Aug. 15, 1995, amended this Pt. IV by adding provisions relative to mailbox requirements to be included as Ch. 1, §§ 4-1030, 4-1031. Such provisions have been redesignated as Ch. 5, §§ 4-5001, 4-5002 at the discretion of the editor, inasmuch as other provisions were previously codified as Ch. 1 of this Pt. IV.

Sec. 4-5001. - Title.
This chapter shall be known and designated as the "Spalding County Mailbox Requirements Code Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 95-12, § 1, 8-15-95)
Sec. 4-5002. - Mailbox requirements.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect a mailbox on the right-of-way of any county road unless such mailbox conforms to the following requirements:
(1)
On an uncurbed county roadway, mailboxes shall be set back a sufficient distance to allow the postman to deliver mail without impeding the flow of traffic on the roadway.
(2)
The support or posts shall not be made of masonry nor constructed of any other material that will not readily yield upon impact by a motor vehicle.
(3)
No support, post, encasement or housing of the mailbox itself will be constructed of any material which will not readily yield upon impact.
(4)
If the post or support is made of wood, then and in such event, the maximum size allowable shall be a four-inch by four-inch post, or if a round post, then the size shall be a maximum of four (4) inches in diameter.
(5)
If a metal post is to be used, then and in such event, the metal post shall be no larger than three (3) inches in diameter. Such post shall be hollow and constructed in such a way as to readily yield upon impact by a motor vehicle.
(Ord. No. 95-12, § 1, 8-15-95)
Sec. 4-5003. - Exemption for mailbox requirements.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any mailbox that is erected on the right of way of any street as defined in sub-paragraphs 4 and 5 of paragraph OO. of section 202 of the Subdivision Ordinance of Spalding County, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 2002-05, § 1, 7-01-02)
CHAPTER 6. - STREET LIGHT DISTRICTS

Sec. 4-6001. - Title.
This chapter shall be known, and referred to, as the "Spalding County Street Light District Regulations."
(Ord. No. 99-03, 3-2-99)
Sec. 4-6002. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this section, the following words shall have the designated meanings assigned to them:
(1)
Application for street light district. A form approved by and presented to the county for the creation of a street light district which shall contain the following information:
a.
Plans and specifications indicating the proposed system meets county standards;
b.
A map designating the geographical area to be served; and
c.
A list, including addresses, of the property owners to be served.
(2)
County. The Spalding County Board of Commissioners and/or its authorized designee for the purpose of administering the intent of this chapter.
(3)
Existing residential area. A residential subdivision or geographical area which may be identified by metes and bounds containing one (1) or more residential neighborhoods that has been established for more than one (1) year.
(4)
Liens. The method by which the county establishes an interest in and to the real estate and/or owner thereof for the purposes of collecting funds sufficient to operate the street light districts.
(5)
New residential development. A new residential subdivision which has been approved by the board of commissioners of Spalding County, but construction and development have not yet commenced.
(6)
Public hearing. A hearing conducted by the board of commissioners of Spalding County to determine whether or not to approve an application to establish a street light district.
(7)
Rates. The estimated expense for operation and maintenance of the street lighting system as established by the county. The rate may include the amortized expense in initial construction of the system and/or actual expense for power and maintenance thereof.
(8)
Standards. Lighting standards approved by the American Standard Practice for Roadway Lighting as sponsored by the Illuminating Engineering Society and approved by the American Standards Association on July 11, 1973, as may be amended.
(9)
Street light district. A geographical area within which street lights are installed for the purpose of public safety.
(Ord. No. 99-03, 3-2-99)
Sec. 4-6003. - Procedure.
Individuals owning real property in an existing residential area in unincorporated Spalding County desiring to illuminate the streets and roads in the area in which they live or own property may apply to the county to establish a street light district. The application must be supported by a petition signed by not less than two-thirds of the property owners representing two-thirds of the total number of parcels of the district that is sought to be established.
(Ord. No. 99-03, 3-2-99)
Sec. 4-6004. - Hearing.
Upon application being made, the county shall conduct an investigation as to the feasibility of establishing a street light district. A report of the investigation shall be forwarded to the Spalding County board of commissioners, and the matter of the application shall be placed on the next convenient agenda for a public hearing at a regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. No. 99-03, 3-2-99)
Sec. 4-6005. - New residential development.
Developers of new residential subdivisions shall make application to the county to install street lights with underground wiring. It shall be the responsibility of the developer to coordinate the installation of the street lights with the appropriate utility and the county consistent with the standards contained in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 99-03, 3-2-99)
Sec. 4-6006. - Assessments.
Each property owner shall be assessed a rate based on the total cost of annual lighting charge within the district divided by the number of properties within the district. Unit cost of street lighting charges shall be based on fees provided by electric utility companies for both overhead and underground installation.
(Ord. No. 99-03, 3-2-99)
Sec. 4-6007. - Charges and imposition of liens.
The rates or charges for street light service shall constitute assessments on the property so served. Those assessments shall be added to tax bills at the end of each year and shall constitute a lien upon the property. Said lien shall have the same priority as tax assessments and an execution may issue for the purposes of enforcing the lien including foreclosure and/or judicial sale.
(Ord. No. 99-03, 3-2-99)
Sec. 4-6008. - Compliance with standards.
The construction and installation of any light system for a street light district shall comply strictly with those standards defined above.
(Ord. No. 99-03, 3-2-99)
Sec. 4-6009. - Administration.
The Spalding County board of commissioners shall be and is hereby authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to effectively carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 99-03, 3-2-99)
Sec. 4-6010. - Certain acts prohibited.
(a)
No person shall erect, construct or install street light fixtures or equipment upon which the illumination thereof falls upon public rights of way unless proper application has been made to the county. This shall include security lights of all kinds and nature.
(b)
No person shall erect, construct or install street light fixtures or equipment in such a manner to insure that the lateral light distribution causes a glare in such a manner as to inhibit the users of the rights-of-way from safely traversing and using the rights-or-way.
(Ord. No. 99-03, 3-2-99)
