Chapter 6 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The Stone Mountain Judicial Circuit formerly referred to in this chapter has been superseded by the Rockdale Judicial Circuit. The editor has changed the text to read "Rockdale Judicial Circuit."

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - District attorney; salary supplement; additional personnel; office and expenses.
Governing authorities of any county or combination of counties comprising the Rockdale Judicial Circuit may provide a supplementary salary for the district attorney of that circuit and may provide additional personnel to assist him as may be necessary to ensure the orderly and efficient operation of the office of the district attorney, and may provide all necessary offices, utilities, telephone expenses, materials, supplies, and travel expenses as may be necessary to equip, maintain and furnish the office of the district attorney of each county's superior court.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 561, § 1)
State Law reference— Prosecuting attorneys, O.C.G.A. § 15-18-1 et seq .; district attorneys emeritus, retirement fund, O.C.G.A. § 47-12-1 et seq .
Secs. 6-2—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SUPERIOR COURT[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Superior courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-1 et seq .; retirement and pensions of superior court judges, O.C.G.A. § 47-8-1 et seq .

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-31. - Supplement to compensation.
(a)
In addition to the compensation, salary, expenses, and allowances presently being received by the judges of the Superior Court of the Rockdale Judicial Circuit from the State of Georgia or any other source, the judges of the superior court of said circuit shall receive a supplement to such compensation from the funds of Rockdale County in the amount of $8,000.00 per annum for each such judge. The supplement shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Rockdale County.
(b)
The supplement is made and declared to be a part of the expenses of the courts, and the power to levy a tax to pay the same or to otherwise provide to pay the same is delegated to the governing authority of Rockdale County.
(1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 160), page 4459, § 1)
Secs. 6-32—6-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CLERK[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Clerks of superior courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-50 et seq .

Sec. 6-51. - Fees collected by clerk.
All fees, costs, percentages, forfeitures, penalties, allowances, and all other perquisites of whatever kind, as are now or may hereafter be allowed by the law, to be received or collected as compensation for service by the clerk of the superior court, shall be received and diligently collected by him for the sole use of Rockdale County, and shall be deposited to a special account by said clerk and paid by check to the governing authority of said county by the fifteenth day of each month. All costs payable to other county officials from said funds shall be paid from said special account by said clerk before remitting the remainder to said governing, authority by the fifteenth day of each month, as herein provided. At the time each check is submitted to said governing authority, it shall be accompanied by a detailed itemized statement made by the clerk under oath showing all such collections and the sources from which collected.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2176, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2048, § 1)
Sec. 6-52. - Salary of clerk.
The clerk of the Superior Court of Rockdale County shall receive an annual salary equal to 56 percent of the base salary of a superior court judge as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 45-7-4 , as now or hereafter amended. The base salary of a superior court judge shall mean that salary paid from state funds and shall not include any county supplement or expense reimbursements. The salary shall be payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Rockdale County. The clerk shall also be authorized to participate in the group retirement program and the group hospitalization benefit program on the same basis as other officers and employees of Rockdale County if he meets the normal eligibility requirements of the programs.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2176, § 2; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 2844, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3162; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3484, § 1; 1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 866), page 4185, § 1)
Sec. 6-53. - Deputy clerks.
The clerk of the superior court of Rockdale County shall have the authority and discretion to appoint the following clerks and employees: one (1) chief deputy clerk, [and] six (6) deputy clerks. The chief deputy clerk shall receive a salary [as provided by law]. The deputy clerks shall each receive a salary [as provided by law]. The salaries of all employees of the clerk of the superior court shall be paid in equal monthly installments out of county funds; provided, however, that such other additional help as may become necessary may be employed by the clerk of the superior court, and he shall fix their compensation upon approval by the county governing authority.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2176, § 3; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 2844, § 2)
Sec. 6-54. - Salaries of deputy clerks fixed for counties with populations of 18,100 to 18,250.
In all counties of this state having a population of not less than 18,100 and not more than 18,250 according to the United States Decennial Census of 1970 or any future such census, the deputies of the clerk of the superior court shall each receive a salary [as provided by law], payable from the funds of such counties. Beginning January 1, 1976, such deputies shall each receive a salary, [as provided by law], payable from the funds of such counties.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2913, § 1)
Secs. 6-55—6-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COURT REPORTERS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Court reporters, O.C.G.A. § 15-41-1 et seq. ; superior court reporters emeritus, O.C.G.A. § 47-15-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-71. - Number of court reporters.
The judges of said circuit are hereby authorized to employ two (2) additional court reporters and to prescribe their duties and compensation, but such compensation shall not exceed the compensation of the present court reporters of the circuit, as the same is now or shall hereafter be fixed.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 620, § 6)
Editor's note— Judges need no local law authorization to hire one (1) court reporter for the circuit or division or set their duties (see O.C.G.A. §§ 15-14-1 , 15-14-3 ) but additional reporters may be authorized and this series of acts authorized. See O.C.G.A. § 15-14-4 .
Sec. 6-72. - Additional court reporters and clerical assistance in judicial circuits containing any counties with a population of 250,000 to 500,000 (general law).
(a)
The judges of all judicial circuits in this state in which is located a county having a population of not less than 250,000 nor more than 500,000, according to the 1960 U.S. Decennial Census, or any such future census, are empowered and authorized to employ two (2) additional court reporters to serve as official court reporters of such circuits. Such reporters shall be paid in the same manner and shall receive the same compensation as is now or may hereafter be provided by law for court reporters of such circuits.
(b)
The judges of the Superior Court of the Rockdale Judicial Circuit are empowered and authorized to employ additional court reporters upon the recommendation of the senior judge of such circuit when that recommendation is concurred in by one more than half of the remaining judges. Such reporters shall be paid in the same manner and shall receive the same compensation as is now or may hereafter be provided by law for court reporters of such circuit.
(c)
Such additional court reporters shall perform such duties as may be assigned to them from time to time by the judges of said circuits.
(d)
The judges of such circuits are further authorized and empowered to employ such stenographic and clerical help as they deem necessary to assist the court reporters in carrying on their work and to fix their compensation.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 876, §§ 1—3; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 249, § 1)
Sec. 6-73. - Salary.
From and after the passage of this act [division,] the official court reporter of the Rockdale Judicial Circuit shall be paid a salary [as provided by law], which salary shall be paid monthly on the first day of each month. The exact amount of such salary to be paid by each county in the circuit [5] shall be fixed by the governing authorities of the counties paying the salary of said official court reporter pro rata, based upon the ratio of population in each county according to the latest United States Decennial Census. Increases in said salary, not more often than annually, shall be made upon the recommendation of the senior judge of the circuit when that recommendation is concurred in by one more than half of the remaining judges of the circuit.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1143, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 247)
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— This and similar language has been retained in this chapter even though the Rockdale Judicial Circuit contains only one county, viz, Rockdale County.

Sec. 6-74. - Salary paid pro rata by counties.
The salary herein provided shall be paid pro rata out of the general treasuries of the various counties comprising the Rockdale Judicial Circuit upon the basis of population. Each one of the counties comprising said circuit shall pay such part or portion of said salary as its population bears to the total population of all counties of said circuit according to the official federal census of 1940, until the completion and promulgation of the next official federal census, and then in like manner, according to such succeeding federal census, and so on according to each succeeding federal census.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1143, § 2)
Sec. 6-75. - County power to levy tax for salary.
It shall be the duty of the county authorities of the various counties comprising the Rockdale Judicial Circuit to make provision annually when levying taxes for expenses of courts to levy and make collection of sufficient taxes in their respective counties for the purpose of paying the portion of said salary chargeable against the respective counties.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1143, § 3)
Sec. 6-76. - Fees collected and paid to county; reports.
From and after the passage of this act [division], the official court reporter of the Rockdale Judicial Circuit shall make collection of all fees fixed by law arising from the reporting of cases in the superior courts of said judicial circuit and the City Court of Decatur so long as said official court reporter shall serve as the Reporter for the City Court of Decatur, and all fees arising from the transcript of proceedings had in such cases, and shall pay said fees into the treasury of the county in which the court trying the case is situated. In the event such reporter shall render reporting services in addition to those heretofore enumerated in this section, the proceeds therefrom shall be prorated by him to the counties comprising the circuit on the same basis as the salary herein provided for is prorated. Provided, however, that in the event such reporter shall render reporting services without the limits of said circuit, such reporter is authorized to deduct from his remittance of the proceeds thereof expenses incurred by him in the rendition of such service. Said reporter shall on the first day of each month make a report to the treasurer or other legally designated custodian of funds of the various counties comprising said judicial circuit of all funds collected from cases tried in the respective counties during the preceding month, and of all other reporting services rendered by him, and shall accompany said report with a remittance of such funds collected from cases tried in the county to which the report is made, plus the particular county's prorata portion of the proceeds from any additional reporting services rendered by him. A copy of the report to the county treasurer shall be furnished to the governing authorities of the various counties comprising the circuit. It shall be the duty of the treasurer or custodian of the funds in the various counties, to whom remittance is made, to execute and deliver to said official court reporter a receipt for all funds remitted by him.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1143, § 4)
Editor's note— The city court referred to above was abolished by 1956 Ga. Laws, page 2932. An amendment to this section adding a paragraph setting certain fees (1957 Ga. Laws, page 316, § 2) has been excluded here since it has been implicitly repealed and superseded presently by O.C.G.A. § 15-5-21 on the state judicial council's power to set fees.
Sec. 6-77. - Executions for unpaid fees.
The official court reporter of said circuit shall cause to be issued executions for all unpaid fees to which he may be entitled in the name of said official court reporter for the use and benefit of the county in which the court in which said fees accrued is located. Except as herein modified, all laws applicable to such executions shall remain in full force and effect.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1143, § 5)
Sec. 6-78. - Deposit on fees.
The judges of the courts included in this act [article] shall have authority in all civil cases to require a deposit on the fees of the official court reporter before requiring him to take down the testimony in such cases. The amount of such deposit shall be fixed by the court, and shall be applied to the payment of legal fees to which the official court reporter may be entitled, and if such deposit exceeds the legal fees arising in such cases the excess shall be returned to the parties making the deposit.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 1143, § 6)
Secs. 6-79—6-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STATE COURT

Sec. 6-111. - Created.
There is created the State Court of Rockdale County which shall have the power, jurisdiction, and method of procedure as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq .
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 1)
Sec. 6-112. - Location.
The State Court of Rockdale County shall be located in the City of Conyers in Rockdale County and shall have territorial jurisdiction coextensive with the limits of said county.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 2)
Sec. 6-113. - Jurisdiction.
(a)
The State Court of Rockdale County shall have jurisdiction as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq.
(b)
In all criminal cases, the judge of said court shall be the judge of both questions of fact and of law unless the person subject to be tried shall, before pleading to the charge against him, or the state shall demand a jury trial. The purpose of this subsection is to eliminate trial by jury unless demanded by the person charged or by the state. Upon either such timely demand being made, such person shall be tried by jury as is hereinafter provided.
(c)
In all civil cases, the judge shall be the judge of all questions of fact and of law unless either party to such proceeding shall, before the time expires for filing defensive pleadings, file a written demand for a jury trial. Upon such demand being timely filed, the case shall be tried by a jury as hereinafter provided unless such demand for trial by jury is withdrawn before the call of the case for trial. When a demand for trial by jury is filed, the same shall not be withdrawn without the consent of the opposite party.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 3)
Sec. 6-114. - Rules of practice and procedure.
The State Court of Rockdale County shall have such rules of practice and procedure as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 4)
Sec. 6-115. - Terms.
The State Court of Rockdale County shall have four (4) terms per annum which shall begin on the first Monday in January, April, July, and October at the Rockdale County Courthouse in the City of Conyers. Each such term shall remain open for the transaction of business until the next succeeding term. If the date fixed for the convening of any term is a legal holiday, then that term shall begin on the next day thereafter which is not a legal holiday. The court shall at all times be open for the purpose of receiving pleas of guilty in criminal cases and passing sentence thereon and for the transaction of civil business before the court.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 5; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 4466, § 1)
Sec. 6-116. - Costs.
(a)
In all civil proceedings in the State Court of Rockdale County, when the principal amount, excluding interest and fees, is not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), the total costs shall be not more than twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(b)
In all other cases, costs shall be the same as in the Superior Court of Rockdale County.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 6)
Sec. 6-117. - Transfer of matters from superior court.
Any case of a civil nature pending in the Superior Court of Rockdale County on July 1, 1987, or thereafter, of which the State Court of Rockdale County has jurisdiction under this act [article] may be transferred by the judge of the superior court to the State Court of Rockdale County by consent of counsel of all parties and shall thereafter stand for trial in said court as though originally filed therein.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 7)
Sec. 6-118. - Institution of criminal cases.
All prosecutions in criminal cases instituted in the State Court of Rockdale County shall be by written accusation made by the solicitor, based upon affidavit, setting forth plainly the offense charged in terms of the law, upon which shall be entered the name of the prosecutor, if any; but the solicitor may make such accusation and proceed to trial thereon without affidavit as the basis therefor as provided by general law. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any prosecution for violation of an ordinance which has been transferred from the Magistrate Court of Rockdale County to the State Court of Rockdale County for a jury trial as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-61 , may be upon citation, as well as by accusation, as provided in O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-62 and 15-10-63.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 8; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 4466, § 2)
Sec. 6-119. - Appeals.
Any case tried in the State Court of Rockdale County shall be subject to review by the Court of Appeals or the Supreme Court of Georgia, whichever court has jurisdiction, in the same manner and under the same rules of appellate procedure as apply to cases in the superior court.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 9)
Sec. 6-120. - Selection and number of jurors.
(a)
The clerk of the State Court of Rockdale County shall prepare a jury list and jury box for said court which shall contain the names of all the grand and petit jurors of said county appearing from time to time on the jury list of the superior court of said county, from which jurors shall be drawn, selected, chosen, and summoned for service in the State Court of Rockdale County in the same manner as is done in the superior court. Jurors in said state court shall receive the same per diem amount as compensation for service therein as in the Superior Court of Rockdale County and shall be paid by Rockdale County in the same manner and out of like funds as jurors are paid in the superior court.
(b)
For the trial of any case in the Superior Court of Rockdale County or the State Court of Rockdale County requiring the use of jurors, a jury pool is created. Jurors may be selected as prescribed by law by either the judges of the Superior Court of Rockdale County or the judge of the State Court of Rockdale County to appear to be sworn and serve as jurors before either court. When both the superior court and state court are in session on the same date, either court may use as jurors persons who are summoned to appear to serve as jurors by virtue of the authority of either court.
(c)
The jury for the trial of all civil and criminal cases tried in the State Court of Rockdale County shall be composed of six (6) members. Said trial jury shall be selected from a panel of twelve (12) jurors. Each side in all civil actions being tried by a jury shall be entitled to three (3) peremptory strikes from such panel of twelve (12), and the remaining six (6) jurors shall serve as the trial jury. In all criminal matters being tried by a jury, the state shall be entitled to two (2) peremptory strikes and the defendant shall be entitled to four (4) peremptory strikes from such panel of twelve (12) jurors; and the remaining six (6) jurors shall serve as the trial jury.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 10)
Sec. 6-121. - Judge.
(a)
There shall be a judge of the State Court of Rockdale County who shall be elected by the qualified voters of Rockdale County, Georgia, and shall assume office on the first day of January following his election as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq .; provided, however, that the first judge shall be appointed by the governor for a term of office beginning July 1, 1987, and ending December 31, 1988.
(b)
The judge of said court shall have such qualifications and shall be subject to such restrictions and discipline as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq. He shall be vested with all the power and authority of judges of the superior courts as to all matters, except as are exclusively conferred upon the judges of the superior courts by the constitution and laws of this state.
(c)
The judge shall devote full time to the duties of his office and he shall be paid a salary equal to 92.5 percent of the salary now or hereafter paid to the judge of the Superior Court of Rockdale County. Said salary shall be payable monthly out of the funds of Rockdale County. The salary of such judge shall be an expense of said court.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 11; 1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1015), page 4723, § 1)
Sec. 6-122. - Solicitor.
(a)
There shall be a solicitor of the State Court of Rockdale County. The district attorney of the Rockdale Judicial Circuit shall appoint a qualified assistant district attorney to serve as solicitor of said court.
(b)
The solicitor shall have such qualifications as provided by O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 12)
Sec. 6-123. - Solicitor pro tem.
In the absence of the solicitor of the State Court of Rockdale County for any reason, said solicitor may appoint a solicitor pro tempore who shall have the same authority while so acting as said solicitor and shall be paid from the funds of Rockdale County such reasonable amount for the service as the solicitor shall determine.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 13)
Sec. 6-124. - Clerk.
The clerk of the Superior Court of Rockdale County shall be, by virtue of his office, the clerk of the State Court of Rockdale County and the sheriff of said county shall likewise be the sheriff of said state court; and each shall on behalf of the county receive compensation for services in said court as are allowed them by law for like service in the superior court. The clerk shall provide all necessary dockets, writs, minute books, printed forms, and the like as may be necessary for said court which shall be paid for by Rockdale County in like manner as such items in the superior court.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 14)
Sec. 6-125. - Stenographer.
The judge of the State Court of Rockdale County may appoint an official stenographer for said court who shall report such cases as the court may require. He shall receive the same fees as allowed for similar service in the superior court which shall be taxed and enforced as in the superior court.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 5452, § 15)
Secs. 6-126—6-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PROBATE COURT[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Probate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-1 et seq.; prosecution of traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21 ; judges of the probate courts retirement fund, O.C.G.A. § 47-11-1 et seq .

Sec. 6-151. - Compensation on salary basis.
The present mode of compensating the ordinary [judge of the probate court] of Rockdale County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished; and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for said officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2173, § 1)
Sec. 6-152. - Compensation.
The judge of the probate court shall receive an annual salary equal to 51.5 percent of the base salary of a superior court judge as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 45-7-4 , as now or hereafter amended. The base salary of a superior court judge shall mean that salary paid from state funds and shall not include any county supplement or expense reimbursements. The salary shall be payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Rockdale County. The judge of the probate court shall also be authorized to participate in the group retirement program and the group hospitalization benefit program on the same basis as other officers and employees of Rockdale County if he meets the normal eligibility requirements of the programs.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2173, § 2; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 2842, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3164; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3482, § 1; 1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 862), page 4177, § 2)
Sec. 6-153. - Collection of fees, fines and the like; report.
The ordinary [judge of the probate court] of Rockdale County shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed as compensation for his services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies, and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the tenth day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the ordinary [judge of the probate court] shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by him and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2173, § 3)
State Law reference— Costs in probate court, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-60 .
Sec. 6-154. - Deputy; compensation.
The judge of the probate court of Rockdale County is hereby authorized to appoint a chief deputy and one (1) additional deputy to assist him in the performance of the duties of his office. The chief deputy shall receive a salary [as provided by law]. The other deputy shall receive a salary [as provided by law]. Said personnel shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Rockdale County. The judge of the probate court, during his term of office, shall have the authority to designate and name the persons who shall be employed as the chief deputy and deputy and to prescribe their duties and assignments. The judge of the probate court may remove such chief deputy or deputy at any time with or without cause.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2173, § 4; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 2842, § 2)
Sec. 6-155. - Expenses.
All expenses incurred by the ordinary [judge of the probate court] in operating and discharging the official duties of his office, including, but not limited to, office equipment, supplies, fixtures and utility expenses, shall be paid by the county from county funds.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2173, § 5)
Sec. 6-156. - Bond.
The official bonds of the ordinary [judge of the probate court] and his deputy shall be procured by said officer, and the premiums and costs thereof shall be paid out of any county funds available for that purpose.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2173, § 6)
State Law reference— Bond of judge of probate court, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-7 et seq.
Secs. 6-157—6-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - MAGISTRATE COURT

Sec. 6-181. - Magistrate court created.
There is hereby created and established for and in the County of Rockdale a magistrate court to be known as the Magistrate Court of Rockdale County.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 1)
Sec. 6-182. - Jurisdiction.
(a)
Said magistrate court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine cases involving violation of all county ordinances and regulations and to try and dispose of all offenses and offenders against any ordinance adopted by the governing authority of said county.
(b)
This court and the judge thereof shall have all powers to do all acts which justices of the peace now or may hereafter be authorized to do under the law of Georgia; and shall have jurisdiction as to subject matter to try and to dispose of all cases where under the law subject matter jurisdiction is conferred upon justices of the peace and justice courts; and as to the amount involved therein, the jurisdiction thereover shall extend to all cases wherein the principal amount shall be two thousand dollars ($2,000) or less. All proceedings and procedures, including but not limited to those relative to pleadings, issuance of summonses and warrants, committal hearings, trials, and appeal and certiorari shall be the same as is now or may hereafter be provided for justices of the peace and justice courts under the laws of this state, except as otherwise provided in this act. All trials shall be conducted by the court sitting without a jury. The judge of the magistrate court, upon the filing of a notice of appeal to the superior court, may, upon motion of the prevailing party or on the court's own motion, at any time require that supersedeas bond with good security be given in such amount as the court may deem necessary. Such bond shall not be required if the appellant files with the court an affidavit stating that because of his indigence he is unable to give bond.
(c)
The court and the judge shall also have jurisdiction and power to conduct trials, receive pleas of guilty or of nolo contendere and to impose sentence upon defendants charged with the violations of the penal provisions of O.C.G.A. § 16-13-2 , now or hereafter amended, as if this court were a magistrate's court as provided in that section and upon defendants charged with violating the laws governing the inoculation of dogs against rabies as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq., relating to rabies, as now or hereafter amended, and upon defendants charged with violating the Georgia Boat Safety Act, approved April 19, 1973 (O.C.G.A. § 52-7-1 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended, and the law governing the abandonment of minor children as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 19-10-1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended. Such jurisdiction and power of said court and the judge thereof shall extend over and throughout the whole and entire County of Rockdale.
(d)
The judge of this court shall have the power to require the posting of cash or surety bonds for appearance in said court and to forfeit the same for nonappearance.
(e)
This court shall have like powers of jurisdiction in regard to any ordinances, law or regulation adopted by the board of commissioners of Rockdale County, if and when said board may be empowered to adopt such ordinance, laws or regulations.
(f)
The court shall have the power to vacate a judgment during the term in which it is rendered.
(g)
Jurisdiction of this court shall not extend to nor include those offenses related to traffic upon the public roads, streets, and highways of this state as defined under the provisions of an act known as the "Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways," approved January 11, 1954 (1953 Ga. Laws, Nov.-Dec. Sess., page 556), as now or hereafter amended; or as defined in O.C.G.A. § 40-5-1 [ 40-6-1 ] et seq., relating to Uniform Rules of the Road, as now or hereafter amended; or as defined in [Ga.] Code title 68B, known as the "Driver's Licensing Act" [now O.C.G.A. § 40-5-1 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended; or as defined in an act creating a department of public safety, O.C.G.A. § 35-2-1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended; all of which shall remain as now vested in the probate court or probate judge of Rockdale County.
(h)
Said court shall have such other and further jurisdiction as is hereinafter set forth, and as may from time to time hereafter be granted by law.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 2; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3169; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3486, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, page 3651, § 1)
Sec. 6-183. - Limitations of prosecution.
All prosecutions for violation of any county ordinances or regulations shall be commenced within one (1) year next after commission of the offense, and at no time thereafter; except that such period of limitations shall not run so long as the offender or offense is unknown and shall be suspended during such time as such offender may abscond from said county or absent himself therefrom or so conceal himself that he cannot be arrested or summoned to appear before said court. The arrest or service of summons on any such person charging him with such offense shall be deemed the commencement of prosecution for the purpose of this section.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 3)
Sec. 6-184. - Magistrate ex officio justice of the peace; warrants; commitments.
The judge of the magistrate court of Rockdale County shall be to all intents and purposes a justice of the peace so far as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the limits of Rockdale County, either with or without a hearing, which warrants shall be directed to the Sheriff of Rockdale County and his deputies and to all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs and constables of the State of Georgia; and any one (1) of said officers shall have authority to execute such warrants. Said judge as ex officio justice of the peace shall have the power and authority to commit to the jail of Rockdale County offenders against the laws of the State of Georgia and in bailable cases to admit them to bail for their appearance at the next term of a court of competent jurisdiction to be held in and for the County of Rockdale. Said judge may issue such warrants and commit or admit to bail such persons, all without regard to whether or not such offense is alleged to have been committed within or without the corporate limits of any municipality within Rockdale County.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 4)
Sec. 6-185. - Judge; appointment; term, vacancies.
The judge of said magistrate court shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Rockdale County within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this act; and the first judge so appointed shall serve for a term ending December 31, 1979, and until his successor is appointed and qualified. All judges appointed for terms following the first as hereinabove prescribed shall be appointed by said board for terms of two (2) years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. All vacancies occurring in such office shall be filled in like manner for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 5)
Sec. 6-186. - Qualifications of judge.
The judge of said court shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of age, a resident of Rockdale County at least two (2) years immediately preceding his appointment, and must have actively practiced law for at least three (3) years in this state immediately before taking office. For the purpose of this act [article], a resident of Rockdale County shall include only those qualified members of the State Bar of Georgia who have steadily maintained a permanent residence in said county as distinguished from a temporary residence, vacation home, summer home, camp, retreat or the like. Such person shaft further be a citizen and taxpayer of Rockdale County, and he shall be ineligible to hold any other public office. Said judge may engage in the practice of law in any court of this state or of the United States during his term of office except the magistrate court of Rockdale County.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 6)
Sec. 6-187. - Chief magistrate's salary.
The chief magistrate of the Magistrate Court of Rockdale County shall receive an annual salary equal to 43.5 percent of the base salary of a superior court judge as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 45-7-4 , as now or hereafter amended. The base salary of a superior court judge shall mean that salary paid from state funds and shall not include any county supplement or expense reimbursements.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 7; 1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 955), page 4520, § 1)
Sec. 6-188. - Clerk; duties and bond.
Said board of commissioners is further authorized and directed to elect a clerk of said magistrate court, whose duty it shall be to keep a record of all proceedings of said court, to collect all costs, fines and forfeitures, and to remit same on or before the fifteenth day of the following month to the director of finance of Rockdale County or such other person as may be designated by the governing authority of Rockdale County, for deposit in the county depository as general funds of Rockdale County. Said clerk shall further be authorized and empowered to issue summons, subpoenas, rules to forfeit bonds, and such other similar writs as may be by law authorized. Said clerk shall give bond to Rockdale County in, the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for the faithful performance of his duties and accounting for all funds, coming into his possession by virtue of his office, and to insure the county against loss of any such funds. Said board may elect a sufficient number of deputy clerks as may be needed, who shall give bond in like manner as the clerk.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 8; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3169; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 825), § 2)
Sec. 6-189. - Qualification and term of clerk.
Said clerk and any new clerks shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of age, shall have been a resident of Rockdale County for at least two (2) years shall be a citizen and taxpayer of Rockdale County and of good moral character. Said clerk and such deputy clerks shall serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners of Rockdale County.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 9)
Sec. 6-190. - Clerks' compensation.
The clerk and deputy clerks of said magistrate court shall be paid a salary to be fixed by the board of commissioners of Rockdale County.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 10)
Sec. 6-191. - Oath of judge and clerk.
The judge and clerk of said magistrate court shall, prior to the entry upon their duties, take an oath to faithfully administer and discharge the duties of their respective offices in accordance with the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and the ordinances of Rockdale County.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 11)
Sec. 6-192. - Terms and place of holding magistrate court.
Said magistrate court shall be held in the county seat and shall be held at such regular or special terms as may be designated by the judge thereof, and to be no less than twice each month, and at such hour or hours of the day or evening as shall be fixed by the judge.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 12)
Sec. 6-193. - Acting magistrate.
The judge of said magistrate court shall have the authority to designate a practicing attorney having the qualifications herein established for the judge of said court as acting magistrate to serve in his place during his absence or disability; and if the judge of said court should fail to do so after being absent or disabled for a period of seven (7) days or more, the Board of Commissioners of Rockdale County, by majority vote, may designate an acting magistrate to serve in his place; the compensation of such acting magistrate to be fixed by said board of commissioners. In the event said magistrate absents himself from the duties of his office unjustifiably and for an unreasonable period of time to be adjudged of by the board of commissioners, said board may in its discretion reduce the compensation payable to said magistrate by an amount sufficient to pay the compensation of such acting magistrate. Any such acting magistrate, while so serving, shall have the same power and authority herein vested in the judge of said magistrate court.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 13)
Sec. 6-194. - Fines and punishment.
Upon conviction of violation of any of the ordinances, rules or regulations set forth by the governing authority of Rockdale County, the magistrate or judge of said court may punish such offender by imposing a fine not in excess of that prescribed by the ordinance or regulation violated and in no event to exceed the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any single offense, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not in excess of that prescribed by the ordinance or regulation violated and in no event to exceed thirty (30) days for any single offense, or by any one (1) or more of these punishments in the discretion of the judge of said magistrate court. The magistrate or judge of said court, at his sole discretion, may require such offender to provide public service to Rockdale County in lieu of imprisonment in the county jail. The sheriff of Rockdale County shall provide supervision for offenders performing such public service. The sheriff of Rockdale County shall receive, confine, feed and care for prisoners sentenced by said magistrate court to imprisonment in the county jail in the same manner as persons charged with an indictable offense under general laws of this state and subject to the same penalties for his refusal to receive and take charge of such persons; except that prisoners received under sentence from said magistrate court may be confined separately and apart from other classes of inmates of said jail as the sheriff may, in his discretion, provide and as general laws may require.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 14; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4040, § 1; 1983 Ga. Laws, page 3651, § 2)
Sec. 6-195. - Alternative sentences.
Said magistrate court shall have the power and authority to impose fines on persons convicted of any offense within the jurisdiction of said court with the alternative of imposing other punishment allowed by law in case said fines are not paid; and to commit prisoners to the Rockdale County jail.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 15)
Sec. 6-196. - Sentence; reduction and review.
The judge of said magistrate court shall have the authority to reduce any sentence or fine imposed by him prior to the payment of said fine and execution of said sentence but shall not have the right to grant a new trial. Review of any final order or judgment of said magistrate court shall be by certiorari to the Superior Court of Rockdale County in the manner prescribed by law for certiorari from justice courts and a supersedeas may be obtained by compliance with the procedure set forth in O.C.G.A. § 5-4-20 and the giving of bond as provided therein, which bond shall be made to Rockdale County.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 16)
Sec. 6-197. - Contempt.
The judge of said magistrate court shall have the power to punish for contempt by fine not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00), imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding ten (10) days, either or both, or any part thereof, in the discretion of said judge.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 17)
Sec. 6-198. - Executions for fines.
Execution may issue immediately, where any fine is imposed by the judge of said magistrate court, to be levied upon the goods, chattels, lands and tenements of the person fined, if the fine is not immediately paid, which execution shall bear teste in the name of the judge of said court, be signed by the clerk of said court and be directed to the sheriff of Rockdale County, and to all and singular the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs and constables of the State of Georgia. The sheriff of Rockdale County and such deputies of the sheriff's department as may be appointed in writing by said sheriff, not to exceed five (5) in number, shall be ex officio constables for the purpose of levy and sale under all executions issued pursuant to this act, and such executions shall be levied and sales thereunder conducted and proceeds thereof distributed in accordance with the laws governing levy and sale in justice of the peace courts of this state, except that the judge of said magistrate court shall be deemed to be ex officio justice of the peace in whose court all such levies and sales shall proceed; and said magistrate shall be empowered to hear and dispose of all questions and claims arising therefrom, whether the same are made by said chief of police, ex officio constables or other officers to whom such executions are directed.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 18)
Sec. 6-199. - Costs.
In each case of conviction in said magistrate court, the costs assessable shall be five dollars ($5.00). Costs shall go into the general fund of the county for general county purposes.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 19)
Sec. 6-200. - Peace officers' annuity and benefit fund.
All fines and forfeitures collected in said magistrate court shall be subject to assessment in the amount prescribed by law for contribution to the peace officers' annuity and benefit fund as in cases tried in municipal courts of this state.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 20)
Sec. 6-201. - Rights of accused.
Any person charged with an offense against any ordinance, rule or regulation of said county shall be informed by summons in writing served on him of the nature of the course of his accusation; shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his behalf; shall have a speedy trial before the judge of said magistrate court; shall be confronted with the witnesses against him and have the privilege of cross examination, as in the superior courts of this state; and shall have the privilege of defending himself, by counsel or by himself, or both, as to him shall seem proper. No one shall be fined or punished without full opportunity of being heard in his own defense.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 21)
Sec. 6-202. - Issuance of summons.
Upon information known to or complaint lodged with the sheriff or any deputy of Rockdale County, Georgia, or the judge or clerk of said magistrate court any person, within the limits of Rockdale County charged with the violation of any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of said county within the jurisdiction of said court may be brought before said magistrate court to answer said charge by service upon said person of a summons from said court setting forth the nature of the charge and the time and place of the hearing. Said summons shall be signed by the judge, clerk, sheriff or deputy sheriff or code enforcement officer issuing same; and a copy thereof shall be served upon the accused either personally or by leaving the copy at his place of residence. In addition, the judge of the magistrate court may appoint, by written order, such other person or persons as he may determine in his sound discretion to be necessary to sign and issue summons.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 22; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3169; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 825), § 3)
Sec. 6-203. - Issuance of subpoenas.
Said court shall have the authority to compel the attendance before any of its sessions of witnesses within the limits of Rockdale County by service upon such witnesses of a subpoena from said court directed to the witness, stating the time and place of the trial and the parties to the case and which shall be served upon said witness either personally or by leaving the copy at his place of residence.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 23)
Sec. 6-204. - Punishment for contempt in failing to answer summons or subpoena.
Said court shall have power to punish as for contempt of court any person failing or refusing to obey any summons or subpoena served upon him as provided in the preceding sections, within the limits hereinbefore prescribed for punishment for contempt. The cause may be continued to such time as the judge may direct, and the court shall issue an order requiring the sheriff or deputy sheriffs of Rockdale County to arrest the offender and bring him before the court to answer the contempt; and it shall be the duty of such officer to arrest such person and to keep such person in custody until he is brought before the court unless he gives bond for his appearance at the time appointed for further hearing, as provided by law.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 24)
Sec. 6-205. - Facsimile signature.
The name of the clerk of said magistrate court, required on subpoenas and other papers, may be printed or stamped on such papers, which shall be in compliance with law and shall have the same force and effect as if written thereon by the clerk.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 25)
Sec. 6-206. - Arrests; bonds and forfeiture.
When an arrest is made for the violation of any county ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation whether under a warrant or not, the arresting officer shall carry the person arrested before said magistrate court where the same shall be disposed of as other cases of arrest not under warrant. Provided, however, that any arresting officer shall have authority to release any person arrested for violation of any ordinance of said county upon such person giving a bond payable to Rockdale County in an amount and surety to be approved by the Sheriff of Rockdale County or as directed by the judge of said magistrate court, conditioned for the appearance of such person before the magistrate court at the time and place specified in said bond and from time to time until he or she shall have been tried for the offense for which charged. Upon the failure of the appearance of any person so released under bond to appear for trial at the time named therein, such bond shall be forfeited and a rule nisi shall be issued by the clerk of said magistrate court requiring such person or the surety upon such bond to show cause before said court, at a time not less than 10 days from the date of such rule nisi, why such bond should not be absolutely forfeited. Such rule nisi shall be served by any officer authorized to serve summons and subpoenas of said court upon the surety or sureties on such bond at least five (5) days before the return day thereof, and such service may be made personally or by mailing a written notice by registered or certified mail to such person or persons at their last known address. At the return time if no good and sufficient cause is shown, the judge shall proceed to forfeit said bond absolutely, and execution shall issue for the full amount, thereof, and all costs against the principal and surety thereon or such of them as shall have been served. Such executions shall be delivered by the clerk of the said magistrate court to the Sheriff of Rockdale County for collection as in cases of executions for fines.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 26)
Sec. 6-207. - Cash deposit in lieu of bond.
When an arrest is made for the violation of any county ordinance, regulation, rule or resolution, the party arrested, at his sole discretion, may deposit with the Sheriff of Rockdale County a sum of money to insure [ensure] his appearance in said magistrate court for trial, said deposit to be in lieu of bond and not to be less than $50.00 or more than $200.00 and said party shall be released as if bond had been given. Where such cash deposit has been made in lieu of bond and the person making such deposit shall fail to appear before said court at the time appointed, said sum of money shall be forfeited by the owner thereof and paid over by the Sheriff of Rockdale County to the county depository as general funds of said county, without necessity of any further notice or proceedings.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 27)
Sec. 6-208. - Acceptance of forfeiture in lieu of fine.
In all cases of forfeiture of bonds or cash deposits in lieu of bond, the judge of the magistrate court shall be authorized, in his discretion, to accept the payment of such forfeitures in lieu of fines, and as final disposition of said charges. If the same is not so accepted, such forfeitures shall not be a bar to further proceedings against such offenders for the violations charged.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 28)
Sec. 6-209. - General powers of court.
Said magistrate court is hereby granted all general powers heretofore or hereafter granted by any act of the General Assembly of Georgia to any police or magistrate court in this State, municipal or otherwise.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 29)
Sec. 6-210. - General powers of board.
The Board of Commissioners of Rockdale County shall have the full power and authority to pass any and all ordinances, rules and regulations necessary and proper to carry out the provisions of this act and to expend any public funds for such purposes.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 30)
Sec. 6-211. - Small claims.
(a)
There is hereby created and established a Small Claims Division of the Magistrate Court of Rockdale County. Said division shall have civil jurisdiction in cases ex contractu in which the demand or value of the property involved does not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); said jurisdiction to be concurrent with the jurisdiction of any other court or courts now or hereafter established in said county. Said jurisdiction shall include the power to issue writs of garnishment and attachment and, in addition to the powers herein specifically granted, all the powers granted to justices of the peace by the laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
The judge of the magistrate court shall serve as judge of the small claims division.
(c)
The clerk of the magistrate court shall serve as clerk of the small claims division.
(d)
(1)
Actions in the small claims division shall be commenced by the filing of a statement of claim, including the last known address of the defendant, in concise form and free from technicalities. The plaintiff or his agent shall verify the statement of claim by oath or affirmation in the form herein provided, or its equivalent, and shall affix his signature thereto. At the request of any individual, the judge or clerk may prepare the statement of claim and other papers required to be filed in an action.
(2)
A copy of the verified statement of claim, together with a notice of hearing in the form hereinafter prescribed, shall be served on the defendant, and such service shall be sufficient to give the court jurisdiction in the premises. Service of said notice shall be made only within the county. Said service shall be made by any official or person authorized by law to serve process in the superior court, by a duly qualified bailiff of the small claims division, by registered or certified mail with receipt, or by any person not a party to, or otherwise interested in, the suit, who is specially appointed by the judge of said division for that purpose.
(3)
When notice is to be served by registered or certified mail, the clerk or the judge shall enclose a copy of the statement of claim; the verification and the notice in an envelope address to the defendant at his last known address; prepay the postage from monies collected for that purpose, and mail the same forthwith, noting the date of mailing on the record. When a receipt therefor is returned, or if the sealed envelope in which said notice was mailed to the defendant by registered or certified mail is returned to the sender by United States postal authorities marked "refused," giving the date of refusal, and such notation of refusal is signed or initialed by a United States postal employee or United States mail carrier to whom refusal was made, then the clerk, or judge shall attach the same to the original statement and notice of claim, or otherwise file it as a part of the record in the case, and it shall be prima facie evidence of service upon the defendant.
(4)
When served by a private individual, as provided above, such individual shall make proof of service by affidavit, showing the time and place of such service on the defendant.
(5)
Upon the failure of the defendant to appear, the plaintiff shall be entitled to judgment by default, without further proof, when the claim of the plaintiff is for a liquidated amount.
(6)
Said notice shall include the date, hour and location of the hearing, which date shall not be less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30) days from the date of the service of said notice; provided, however, that where service is made by registered or certified mail, the date of mailing shall be the date of service.
(e)
A docket shall be maintained in which every proceeding and ruling had in each case shall be indicated.
(f)
(1)
The plaintiff, when he files his claim, shall deposit the sum of thirty-six dollars and fifty cents ($36.50) with the court, which sum shall cover all costs of the proceeding, including the cost of service of the notice. The deposit of cost in cases of attachment, garnishment or trover shall be thirty-six dollars and fifty cents ($36.50). If a party shall fail to pay any accrued cost, the judge shall have the power to deny said party the right to file any new case while such costs remain unpaid and, likewise, shall have the power to deny such litigant the right to proceed further in any pending case. The award of court costs, as between the parties, shall be in the discretion of the judge, and such costs shall be taxed in the cause at his discretion.
(2)
Whenever a claim affidavit and bond is filed by a third party claiming personal property that has been attached or levied upon under an attachment or execution issued from the small claims division, the levying officer shall forthwith return the same to said division of the magistrate court, and the issues raised by such claim affidavit shall be heard and determined by the judge of said small claims division. The same rules of practice and procedure shall apply as in cases of affidavits of illegality. All attachment proceedings shall be tried by the judge and without a jury.
(g)
(1)
The trial shall be conducted on the day set for the hearing, or at such later time as the judge may set. Immediately prior to the trial of any case, the judge shall make an earnest effort to settle the controversy by conciliation. If the judge fails to induce the parties to settle their differences without a trial, he shall proceed with the hearing on its merits.
(2)
The judge shall conduct the trial in such manner as to do substantial justice between the parties according to the rules of substantive law. All rules and regulations relating to pleading, practice and procedure shall be liberally construed so as to administer justice.
(3)
If the plaintiff fails to appear, the suit may be dismissed for want of prosecution, the defendant may proceed to a trial on the merits, or the case may be continued as the judge may direct. If both parties fail to appear, the judge may continue the case, order the same dismissed for want of prosecution, or make any other just and proper disposition thereof as justice may require.
(h)
If any defendant has any claim against the plaintiff, the judge may require a statement of setoff to be filed, or same may be waived. If the plaintiff requires time to prepare his defense against such claim, the judge may continue the case for such purpose. If any defendant has any claim against the plaintiff which exceeds the jurisdiction of the division, he may use a part thereof to offset the claim of the plaintiff.
(i)
When the judgment is to be rendered and the party against whom it is to be entered requests it, the judge shall inquire fully into the earnings and financial status of such party and shall have full discretionary power to stay the entry of judgment, to stay execution, and to order partial payments in such amounts, over such periods, and upon such terms as shall seem just under the circumstances and as will assure [ensure] a definite and steady reduction of the judgment until it is finally and completely satisfied.
(j)
The judge of said small claims division shall not be obligated to collect such deferred partial payments on judgments so rendered but, if the plaintiff so requests, he may do so at the expense of the plaintiff for clerical and accounting costs incurred thereby.
(k)
The Judge of the Magistrate Court of Rockdale County may, from time to time, make rules for a simple, inexpensive and speedy procedure to effectuate the purposes of this act [article] and shall have power to prescribe, modify and improve the forms to be used therein to ensure the proper administration of justice and to accomplish the purposes hereof.
(l)
The Sheriff of Rockdale County and his deputies shall serve summons, make levies and sales, and serve as bailiffs of said small claims division.
(m)
A judgment of said small claims division shall become a lien on both the real and personal property of a defendant, regardless of where such property is situated within the state. Said judgment shall become a lien at the time an execution based upon such judgment is filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court for said county and the entry thereof is made by the clerk in the general execution docket for said county.
(n)
Appeals may be had from judgments returned in the Small Claims Division of the Magistrate Court of Rockdale County to the superior court and the same provisions now provided for by general law for appeals, contained in O.C.G.A. title 5 , to the superior court, shall be applicable to appeals from the small claims division to the superior court, the same to be a de novo appeal.
(o)
Until otherwise provided by the rules of the court, the statement of claim, verification, and notice shall be in the following form, or equivalent form, and shall be in lieu of any forms now employed and of any form of summons now provided by law:
"Small Claims Division of the Magistrate Court of Rockdale County
_______ Georgia
_____
Plaintiff
_____
Address
vs.
_____
Defendant
Statement of Claim
(Here the plaintiff or, at his request, the court will insert a statement of the plaintiff's claim and, if the action is on a contract, either express or implied, the original statement of the plaintiff's claim which is to be filed with the court may be verified by the plaintiff or his agent as follows:)
State of Georgia
County of _______
___________ being first duly sworn on oath, says the foregoing is a just and true statement of the amount owning by defendant to plaintiff, exclusive of all setoffs and just grounds of defense.
_____
Plantiff (or Agent)
Sworn and subscribed before me
this ___ day of ________ 20___.
_____
Notary Public (or Attesting Official)
Notice.
TO: _____
Defendant
_____
Home Address

or
_____
Business Address
You are hereby notified that _______ has made a claim and is requesting judgment against you in the sum of _______ dollars ($_______), as shown by the foregoing statement. The court will hold a hearing upon this claim on _______ at _______.m. at (address of court).
You are required to be present at the hearing in order to avoid a judgment by default against you.
If you have witnesses, books, receipts or other writings bearing on this claim, you should bring them with you at the time of hearing.
If you wish to have witnesses summoned, see the court at once for assistance.
If you admit the claim, but desire additional time to pay, you must come to the hearing in person and state the circumstances to the court.
You may come with or without an attorney.
_______
Judge-Clerk of the Small Claims Division of the Magistrate Court of Rockdale County. (Seal)."
(p)
All office space, courtroom facilities, forms, docket books, file jackets, filing cabinets, materials, equipment and supplies required by this act [article], or necessary for the efficient operation of said court, shall be furnished by the board of county commissioners. They shall also provide a suitable room in the courthouse for the holding of said court.
(q)
Said small claims division shall have no designated terms at state periods. The judge thereof shall, in each instance, set dates for all hearings and trials in each type of case. He shall also designate the time or times for the return of attachments and executions. A garnishee shall be required to file his answer not sooner than thirty (30) days and not later than forty-five (45) days after he is served with summons. Whenever a garnishee shall fail or refuse to answer as provided above, the judge may render a default judgment as provided in O.C.G.A. § 18-4-90 ; but no judgment shall be rendered against a garnishee before a final judgment shall have first been rendered against the defendant.
(r)
A summons of garnishment may be served by the sheriff or his deputies or by a lawful constable. Whenever service is made in person by a court officer, as aforesaid, such officer shall enter his return of service either on the back of the original garnishment affidavit or the attachment writ, as the case may be, or such entry of service in the case of attachment may be made on a separate paper and attached to the writ of attachment.
(s)
The fees of the bailiff or sheriff for the execution of a fi. fa. shall be five dollars ($5.00), plus a reasonable amount for drayage, to be determined by the judge of the small claims division. The rate of commission on all judicial sales shall be ten (10) percent of the first two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and five (5) percent on all sums over than amount, with a minimum of five dollars ($5.00).
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 31; 1983 Ga. Laws, page 3651, § 3)
Sec. 6-212. - Operations; funds.
Funds for operation of court shall be paid out of the general funds of Rockdale County. All expenses necessary for the efficient operation of said court, including but not limited to the salary of the judge and solicitor, salaries of clerical assistants, salaries of the court reporter when authorized by the judge of said court, supplies, materials, furniture, furnishings, equipment, and any other expenditure necessary or needful for carrying into effect and maintaining this court shall be paid by the governing authority of Rockdale County.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3907, § 32)
Secs. 6-213—6-240. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - PUBLIC DEFENDER[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Legal defense of indigents, O.C.G.A. § 17-12-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-241. - Office created; appointment; term.
The senior judge of the Rockdale Judicial Circuit, or in his absence, the acting senior judge, is hereby authorized and directed to appoint a Public Defender for Rockdale County to represent indigent persons of said county in criminal proceedings involving the violation of state laws. The public defender must be licensed to practice law in this state and must be competent to counsel and defend a person charged with crime. The public defender shall be appointed for an initial term to serve until July 1, 1975, and until his successor is appointed and qualified, and thereafter the public defender shall be appointed for subsequent terms of two (2) years, beginning from the date of his appointment, and until his successor is appointed and qualified. The person appointed as public defender shall be authorized to engage in the private practice of law, both civil and criminal, while serving as public defender.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2685, § 1)
Sec. 6-242. - Compensation; expenses; county to pay.
(a)
The Public Defender for Rockdale County shall be compensated in the amount [as prescribed by law] which shall be payable monthly from the funds of Rockdale County. The public defender shall not be authorized to receive any fees provided by law for the defense of indigent defendants in addition to the compensation provided for herein.
(b)
The necessary operating expenses of the office of the Public Defender of Rockdale County, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any of the funds of Rockdale County available for such purposes. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture and utilities as may be reasonably required in the discharging the official duties of said office shall be furnished by the county and paid from any funds of the county available for such purposes. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Rockdale County.
(c)
For each fiscal year the governing authority of Rockdale County shall include in the annual budget of said county for the operation of the courts of said county an amount sufficient to pay the compensation and other expenses of the public defender as provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this section.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2685, § 2; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 2846)
Sec. 6-243. - Indigency defined; perjury.
(a)
As used in this act [sections 6-241 through 6-245], indigent person means a person who is unable, without undue hardship, to employ the legal service of an attorney or defray the necessary expenses of legal representation, determined as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The Superior Court of Rockdale County shall prescribe a standard of indigency to, govern the determination of indigency by the courts within said county. Said superior court shall also prescribe the requirements for a proper showing of material factors relating to ability to pay for legal services and the proper form and authentication thereof. In establishing a standard of indigency, said superior court shall consider such factors as income, property owned, expenses, outstanding obligations, and the number and ages of dependents. Release on bail shall not necessarily preclude a person from being indigent nor shall it be necessary that a person be destitute or a pauper to be indigent. The determination of indigency under this section should be made at the time of arraignment or prior thereto if requested by said indigent.
(c)
If, in a proceeding to determine indigency under this section, any person makes a false statement, under oath, concerning any material factor related to his or another's ability to pay for legal services, it shall constitute the crime of perjury and be punishable as such.
(d)
To the extent that a person covered hereunder is able to provide for the employment of an attorney, the other necessary services and facilities of representation and court costs, the said superior court may order him to provide for this payment or reimbursement.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2685, § 3)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-244. - Reports.
The public defender shall submit an annual report to the governing authority of Rockdale County showing, the number of persons represented under this act, the crime involved and the outcome of each case. A copy of the report shall also be submitted to each court having criminal jurisdiction in said county.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2685, § 4)
Sec. 6-245. - Construction.
The protections provided by this act [sections 6-241 through 6-245] shall not be construed to exclude any other protections otherwise required for the defense of indigent defendants.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 2685, § 5)
Editor's note— The Rockdale-Newton Counties Public Defender's Office was abolished by 1975 Ga. Laws, page 2699, and all cases, papers, records and other property were transferred to the Public Defender of Rockdale County.
