ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS

Sec. 2-201. - Departments generally.
(a)
The internal organization of the county government shall be subordinate to and act as administrative instrumentalities of the commission and shall be divided into such departments and agencies as said board shall deem necessary.
(b)
Such county departments and agencies may be created, abolished or any two (2) or more departments or agencies may be consolidated, from time to time, by a majority vote of the board of commissioners; except that the department of finance, as provided in this act, shall be maintained at all times as a separate and distinct department.
(1977 Ga. Laws, page 2817, § 15; Ord. No. 1977-18, § 1, 4-24-1977)
Sec. 2-202. - Department of finance.
(a)
The department of finance shall be under the supervision and control of the finance director. The finance director shall be appointed by the chairperson of the board of commissioners and confirmed by the commission and shall be directly responsible to them. The finance director's compensation shall be fixed by the commission.
(b)
The department of finance shall, pursuant to the resolutions adopted by the board of commissioners and instructions, consistent with said resolutions, given by the chairperson, perform the following functions:
(1)
Keep and maintain accurate records reflecting the financial affairs of the county.
(2)
Assist the chairperson in compiling the annual budget covering all funds.
(3)
Maintain current accounts over the collection and deposit of monies due the county from taxes and other sources.
(4)
Examine all claims against the county and make recommendations as to payment.
(5)
Maintain budgetary control accounts, showing encumbrances for obligations entered into, liquidation of such encumbrances, unencumbered balances of allotments, unexpended balances of allotments, and all unallotted balances of appropriations.
(6)
Maintain proprietary accounts of the current assets and of the liabilities of all county funds.
(7)
Prepare and issue monthly financial reports on the operations of all county funds.
(8)
Maintain property control records of all county property, including equipment and stores, and to [sic] supervise stores.
(9)
Plan and prepare for meeting the financial needs of the county, project financial requirements, recommend a means of financing those requirements and advise the chairperson and board of commissioners on financial matters.
(10)
Perform such other duties as may be assigned by the chairperson or the board of commissioners or both.
(1977 Ga. Laws, page 2817, § 16; Ord. No. 1979-18, § 1, 4-24-1979; 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 143), page 2817, § 2)
Secs. 2-203—2-230. - Reserved.
