Chapter 14 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Prohibition of alcoholic beverages with nudity or in adult entertainment establishments, § 10-55; businesses, ch. 22.
State Law reference— Control of mass gatherings, O.C.G.A. § 31-27-1 et seq.; coin-operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 50-27-70 et seq.

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
The definitions used in section 86-31 of this Code shall likewise apply to this chapter.
(Code 1978, § 7-1001)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-2. - Game devices.
(a)
An annual business license tax of $25.00 is hereby levied upon each game device commercially operated by any person, firm, partnership or corporation licensed or doing business under the provisions of this section, with the total amount that would be collected per year per premises not to exceed $500.00. Such tax shall be levied in addition to that business license fee and occupational tax provided under section 22-31. For purposes of this section, the owner or lessee of the business premises in which a game device is located shall be considered doing business and shall be responsible for payment of the tax imposed under the provisions of this section.
(b)
A game device, as used in this section, shall include but shall not be limited to pool tables, billiard tables, pinball machines, electronic Ping-Pong, electronic tennis, video games and other similar devices.
(c)
Application, registration, collection and enforcement of the tax levied in this section shall be governed by all applicable provisions of chapter 22, article II.
(d)
The license tax levied under this section shall be calculated based upon the total number of game devices maintained on the business premises, and an additional tax shall not be required where one game device operated on the business premises is replaced by another game device provided the total number of devices operated does not exceed the total number of devices for which a license tax has been levied and paid for the applicable annual period.
(e)
The license tax shall be due and payable on January 1 of each year. A penalty of ten percent of the license tax shall be assessed against any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity described in this section who shall fail to pay the license tax by March 1 of each year when the tax is due, or within 30 days after the device is placed on the premises.
(f)
Any game device placed in a business premises after January 1 of the year shall be taxed at the full fee for the remainder of the year without proration.
(g)
Upon payment of the license tax levied under this section, a game device permit shall be issued which shall indicate in bold letters the number of game devices registered for that particular business premises. Such permit shall be prominently displayed at or near the location of the game devices.
(h)
Section 1-11 shall apply as a penalty for the violation of this section.
(Code 1978, § 7-6001)
