PART I - LOCAL ACTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20, in the various local acts compiled in this part, the title of the governing authority has been changed from board of commissioners of roads and revenues to board of commissioners. Pursuant to Ga. Const. (1976) art. VI, § VI, ¶ IV, "Ordinary", or "Ordinaries" or the words "Court of Ordinary" or "Courts of Ordinary" are changed to "Judge of the Probate Court" or "Judges of the Probate Court," as appropriate.

ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1919 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 224), p. 1919. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been added and made consistent with the County Code. The title and initial enacting clause has also been deleted.

Sec. 1. - Created.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that a board of commissioners for the County of Polk is hereby created, to consist of six members who shall be free holders and qualified voters of said county.
(1962 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 567), p. 2128, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Road districts.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That for the purpose of this Act, the County of Polk shall be divided into three road districts as follows: District number one shall be composed of Cedartown, Hampton and Lake Creek militia districts; district number two shall be composed of Fish, Antioch, Youngs, Blooming Grove and Esom Hill militia districts; district number three shall be composed of Rockmart, Brownings, Aragon and Buncombe militia districts.
Sec. 3. - Election of commissioners.
There shall be two commissioners for each of three commissioner districts hereinafter created and they shall be elected as hereinafter provided.
(1962 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 567), p. 2128, § 2)
Sec. 4. - Number of commissioners; qualifications generally.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of Polk County shall be composed of six members. The members of the board shall be residents of the commissioner districts they represent, but shall be elected by the qualified electors of the entire county.
(b)
For the purpose of electing the members of the board from commissioner districts, Polk County shall be divided into three commissioner districts. Two members of the board shall be elected from each such district. Those districts shall be and correspond to those three numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: polkcc3 Plan Type: Local User: Angela Administrator: Polk.
(c)
When used in such attachment, the terms 'Tract' and 'BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Polk County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Polk County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
The three members of the board from each district who were elected at the general election in November 1998 shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this section. The three members of the board from each district who were elected at the general election in November 2000 shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this section.
(e)
Successors to members elected under subsection (d) of this section shall be elected at the state-wide general election next preceding the expiration of such terms of office and shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(f)
Commissioner Districts 1, 2, and 3 as they exist immediately prior to the effective date of this Act shall continue to be designated as Commissioner Districts 1, 2, and 3, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and, on and after the effective date of this Act, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this section.
(g)
The commissioners shall be elected by those persons who are qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly. No person shall be elected from any commissioner district unless such person shall have been a resident of that commissioner district for a period of at least one year immediately preceding the date of election. Each commissioner shall be elected by the electors of the entire county and not by the electors of such person's district alone.
(1945 Ga. Laws, (Act. No. 221), p. 898, § 1; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 567), p. 2128, § 3; Ga Laws 2002 (Act. No. 478), p. 4037, § 1)
Sec. 5. - Filling of vacancies.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for by O.C.G.A. § 36-5-21, should a vacancy from death, resignation, removal from the county district, or otherwise occur on the board of commissioners, the same shall be filled by the remaining members of the board of commissioners with a minimum of at least four affirmative votes in favor of any prospective candidate. The chairman of the board of commissioners shall be entitled to vote with regard to the appointment of such vacancies. In the event any single prospective candidate does not receive the minimum of four affirmative votes of the board of commissioners within a period of 60 days from the date of vacancy, the appointment shall be made by the grand jury of the Superior Court of Polk County pursuant to the procedure set forth in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
The chairman of the Polk County Board of Elections and Registration shall publish a notice of the vacancy once a week for four consecutive weeks in the legal organ of Polk County, and such notice shall advise potential candidates of the materials and qualifications required for any member of the public to offer for the filling of the vacant seat. All such information as required by the chairman of the Polk County Board of Elections and Registration shall be sealed and transmitted by the chairman of the Polk County Board of Elections and Registration to the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of Polk County for consideration by the grand jury during its next convening session.
(c)
Any person appointed to fill a vacant position as provided for by this section shall serve until the first day of January after the general election held next after the expiration of at least 30 days from the time such vacancy occurs, at which election a successor for the unexpired term shall be elected and said successor, either by appointment or election, shall be from the road district from which the vacancy occurs.
(Ord. of 5-3-2016(1))
Sec. 6. - Bond of Commissioners.
Be it further enacted, That each Commissioner, before entering upon his duties, shall give bond with good security to be approved by the Judge of the Probate Court in the sum of two thousand five hundred ($2,500.00) dollars payable to the Judge of the Probate Court of said county and his successors in office, and shall take and subscribe an oath before the Judge of the Probate Court of said county to well and faithfully perform his duties as such Commissioner under this Act, which bond and oath shall be filed with the Judge of the Probate Court and recorded upon his minutes. Said bond shall be for the faithful performance of the duties of the office of Commissioner and may be sued upon by the Judge of the Probate Court on his motion, or by direction or request of the grand jury, and any Commissioner and his sureties shall be liable for any breach thereof by way of malfeasance in office, or for any neglect of duty.
Sec. 7. - Meetings, officers and chairman's veto.
The regular meeting of the board of county commissioners shall be the first Tuesday in each month and shall be held at the county courthouse or other public facility location which has been properly advertised as to date, time, and place of such meeting. At the first regular or special meeting of the board in each calendar year hereafter, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the board shall elect a chairman who shall serve for one year, or until his successor is elected and qualified. It shall be the duty of the chairman to preside at all meetings of the board; to approve and sign the minutes of each meeting; to sign, as chairman, all warrants on the county treasury and all orders and processes of said board of commissioners.
At said meeting the board shall also elect a vice-chairman to act in the absence, or in the event of disability or disqualification of the chairman, and which vice-chairman, when acting, shall exercise all the duties and powers of the chairman. The chairman or vice-chairman, when acting, shall except as herein provided, perform any and all other duties imposed upon a member of the board of commissioners and in addition shall perform all duties usually incident to and connected with the office of chairman of such board.
The chairman, or vice-chairman when acting, shall not vote except in the event of a tie-vote, in which case he must vote, provided that the chairman or vice-chairman when acting, shall be vested with a veto which he may exercise on any resolution, ordinance, or any other action of said board. The chairman, or vice-chairman when acting, shall have three calendar days, not including the date on which the action to be vetoed was taken, in which to exercise the veto, provided, he shall, prior to the close of the meeting at which said proposed action, resolution or ordinance is adopted, declare his intention to veto. The veto shall be exercised by notifying the clerk of the board in writing.
A two-third's vote of the board members present and voting shall be necessary to override any veto. In the event of the exercise of the veto power by the chairman, or vice-chairman when acting, upon petition in writing by a majority of the board, the chairman or vice-chairman, shall call a special meeting of the board to be held within five days of the presentation of said petition, for the purpose of considering overriding of the veto, and the resolution, ordinance, or action vetoed shall be the first item of business at such special meeting.
Special meetings of the board of commissioners of Polk County, Georgia, may be called at any time by the chairman and must be called at any time by the chairman upon petition by a majority of the members thereof.
(1962 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 567), p. 2128, § 4; 1967 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 303), p. 2831; 1969 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 501) p. 3619; Amended by Ord. of 4-10-2014)
Sec. 8. - Compensation.
The chairman of the board of commissioners of Polk County shall receive an annual salary of $5,400.00, payable in equal monthly installments out of the funds of Polk County. The other members of the board of commissioners of Polk County shall each receive an annual salary of $4,800.00, payable in equal monthly installments out of the funds of Polk County.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 633), p. 602, § 1; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 567), p. 2128, § 5; 1970 Ga. Laws, (Act. No. 1189), p. 3107, § 1; 1977 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 571), p. 4019, § 1; 1982 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1035), p. 4216, § 1; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 381), p. 4969, § 1)
Sec. 8(b). - [Repealed].
(1957 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 207), p. 2584, § 1; 1958 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 460), p. 3387, § 1; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 567), p. 2128, § 7)
Sec. 9. - Meetings and clerk.
The Commissioners shall meet in regular session at a public facility site not less than once a month for the transaction of county business, but may meet in special sessions whenever, in their judgment, public necessity requires, or at any time upon special call of the Chairman. The Commissioners shall employ a clerk, and the Commissioners shall establish job requirements, a salary, job duties and bond amount for the clerk. The clerk shall attend all meetings of the Board Commissioners and its committees as directed. The clerk shall keep complete and accurate minutes of such meetings. The clerk shall maintain files of petitions, legal documents, contracts, and records, and shall perform other duties as required. All county records and files shall be available for public inspection in accordance with state laws.
(Amended by Ord. of 4-10-2014)
Sec. 9a. - [Repealed].
(1945 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 124), p. 717, § 1; Repealed by Ord. of 4-10-2014)
Sec. 10. - Superintendent of public works.
The board of commissioners shall employ a superintendent of public works. The board is to establish his salary, qualification, necessity of bond and its amount, and the duties and responsibilities of said superintendent.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 633), p. 602, § 2; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 567), p. 2128, § 6)
Sec. 11. - Employees for road work.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That said board shall have authority to employ such other servants, agents and employees and to contract for such material, implements and road equipment as may be necessary to successfully carry on road construction and road repairs in said county, and not contrary to law.
Sec. 12. - General powers.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That said board shall have exclusive jurisdiction when sitting for county purposes, over all matters concerning county property, county taxes, general and special; in establishing and changing militia districts and election precincts; in examining, auditing and settling accounts of all officers having the care, management, collection, keeping and distribution of moneys belonging to the county or appropriated for its use and benefit; in making rules and regulations for the support of the poor of the county; in establishing, altering and abolishing roads, bridges and ferries, in carrying out any and all of its details and enforcement of the road law; and they are vested with the jurisdiction and powers that the old inferior courts had and which were formerly vested in the Judge of the Probate Court of said county, and the Judges of the Probate Court of said State, when sitting for county purposes, and generally to have and exercise all the powers granted by law or as may be indispensable to complete and have proper jurisdiction over county finances and county matters. The Commissioners, when sitting as a court in regular or extra session for the transaction of county business, shall have such power to impose fines and impose penalties upon all persons subject to its jurisdiction for disobedience to its orders, precepts and processes as the judge of the Superior Court now has over said delinquents in such cases. Proceedings against delinquents shall be in the manner and to the extent as now provided by law in such cases. The clerk of the Commissioners court shall act instead of the clerk of the Superior Court and a quorum of Commissioners instead of a judge of the Superior Court.
Sec. 12.1. - Licenses and miscellaneous powers.
(a)
Said Board is hereby authorized and empowered, in its discretion to fix annual license fees to be paid to said county by each person, firm or corporation which conducts, carries on or operates within the limits of said county the following activities:
(1)
Road shows, side shows, carnivals and other itinerant shows and displays.
(2)
Fortunetelling, mindreading, palmistry and similar activities.
(3)
Pinball machines and similar machines which are operated by depositing a coin therein for the playing of a game or the engaging in of any contest of chance or skill.
(b)
The privilege of conducting, carrying on and operating said activities within the limits of said county is purely a privilege and no such activity shall be conducted in said county without a permit from the said board, which said authority is hereby given discretionary powers as to the granting or refusal of such permits.
(c)
Fi fas may issue for the collection of license taxes hereinbefore provided for, and such taxes may be collected in any other manner provided by law for the collection of license fees and taxes.
(d)
Funds derived from this licensing power shall be used by said county for the support of paupers.
(e)
Any person who violates the provisions of this Act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as such.
(1957 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 351), p. 2291, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— Section 2 of the 1957 acts provided that the above provisions were to be added after section 12. The first subsection of designated as 12 (a). So as to facilitate indexing the provisions have been numbered as 12.1.
Sec. 12a. - Other employees authorized.
The board of commissioners is hereby authorized to employ and fix the compensation of additional employees, when requested to do so by the head of any office or department of Polk County, to assist in the performance of the duties of such office or department.
(1968 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1208), p. 3635)
Sec. 13. - Publication of minutes of meetings.
The clerk for the Board of Commissioners shall, within three working days following a meeting of the Commissioners, have unapproved Minutes available for public inspection. Upon minutes being formally approved by the Commission such approved minutes shall be available for public inspection by the end of the next working day.
(Amended by Ord. of 4-10-2014)
Sec. 14. - County attorney.
The County Commissioners shall select an attorney who shall serve as the County Attorney, and who shall serve in that capacity until relieved by the Board of Commissioners. The Commissioners shall, at their discretion, have the power to discharge the County Attorney and name a replacement at any time. Compensation for the County Attorney shall be at the discretion of the Commissioners and shall be based on the amount and value of the services rendered.
(1957 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 273), p. 2763, § 1; 1958 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 451), p. 3364, § 1; Amended by Ord. of 4-10-2014)
Sec. 15. - Quorum.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that a majority of the Commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any and all business.
Sec. 16. - Approval of purchases.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that requisition shall be made by all county employees, agents and officers for supplies, equipment and materials on the Commissioners, and before such supplies, equipment and material shall be bought authority must be obtained from the Commissioners to order and to buy the same. The Commissioners may establish procedures and policies for purchasing goods and services, and may appoint staff to direct, implement and supervise such policies and procedures. Purchases not made in accordance with Commission policies and procedures shall not be authorized.
(Amended by Ord. of 4-10-2014)
Sec. 17. - Payment of bills.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all obligations of the county created under the provisions of this Act shall be paid by the county warrant and as herein provided, unless otherwise provided by law, to the party to whom such obligation may be due. The Commissioners shall establish policies and procedures which will ensure that all obligations and bills presented are in fact valid and are paid in a timely manner.
(Amended by Ord. of 4-10-2014)
Sec. 18. - Submission of financial statement to grand jury.
The Commissioners and appropriate county staff shall provide information, audits, or other appropriate documents as may be requested by the Grand Jury regarding the financial condition of the county.
(Amended by Ord. of 4-10-2014)
Sec. 19. - Repealer.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1989 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 265), p. 4652. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been added and made consistent with the County Code. The title and initial enacting clause have also been deleted.

Sec. 1. - Created.
Pursuant to Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40], there is created for Polk Cou
