DIVISION 702. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 702.01. - Official Zoning Map.
A.
The County is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the Official Zoning Map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as though fully set forth herein. The primary public information sources should be consulted for verification of the information contained on the map. A copy of the Official Zoning Map shall be maintained on file with the County Clerk for inspection and review by the public.
B.
The copy of the Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners, attested by the County Clerk, and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: "This is to certify that this is a copy of the Official Zoning Map of Polk County, Georgia" together with the date of the adoption of this article [division].
C.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this article [division] and state law, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Board of Commissioners, with an entry on the Official Zoning Map signed by the County Manager.
D.
No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this article [division]. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this article [division] and punishable as provided under this article [division].
E.
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map which shall be located in the office of the County Clerk shall be the final authority.
Sec. 702.02. - Replacement of Official Zoning Map.
In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the Board of Commissioners may by resolution adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede all previous such maps. The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors of omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment thereof. Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
Sec. 702.03. - District Designations.
For the purpose of this ordinance, Polk County is hereby divided into zoning districts designated as shown in Table A.
TABLE A. COUNTY ZONING DISTRICTS
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
R-1 Detached Single-Family Residential, Maximum 1 Dwelling Unit/Acre
R-2 Detached Single-Family Residential, Maximum 2 Dwelling Units/Acre
RA-8 Attached Single and Multi-Family Residential, Maximum 8 Dwelling Units/Acre
PRD(SF) Planned Residential Development (Single-Family)
R-4 Mobile Homes/Manufactured Housing Park
COMMERCIAL
CN Neighborhood Business
C-1 General Business
LRO Low-Rise Office
OI Office Institutional
OS Office Services
INDUSTRIAL
I-1 General Industrial
I-2 Heavy Industrial
AGRICULTURAL
A-1 Agricultural
