Chapter 16 - CEMETERIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Cemeteries and funeral services are regulated by the Georgia Cemetery and Funeral Services Act of 2000, O.C.G.A. § 10-14-1 et seq.

Sec. 16-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cemetery or city cemetery means the cemetery owned and managed by the city, known as Oakwood City Cemetery, including any new land added thereto at any time henceforth.
(Amd. No. 314, § 1, 9-9-2002)
Sec. 16-2. - Regulations.
(a)
The city may promulgate regulations, rules or other restrictions at any time to carry out the purposes of this chapter, to allow for the efficient operation of the city cemetery and to attempt to ensure compliance with necessary rules, regulations and procedures concerning the present or future operation of the cemetery.
(b)
The city shall have no liability whatsoever to any person concerning the use, erection of monuments or burial of persons within the cemetery. In accepting any conveyance of a burial lot, each purchaser agrees to be bound by the provisions of this chapter, together with all regulations promulgated hereunder and any amendments thereto. Unless due solely to the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the city or its agents, neither the city nor the city's agents shall be liable to the purchaser or the purchaser's agents, representatives or visitors and the purchaser shall and does hereby indemnify and hold the city harmless from and against any and all loss, cost, liability, claim, damage or expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs and costs of investigation) incurred in connection with or arising from:
(1)
Any default by the city in the performance of any of the terms and provisions under this chapter to be performed by the city;
(2)
The purchaser's use and occupancy of the premises purchased hereunder; or
(3)
Any acts, omissions or negligence of the city and any such person in or about the premises of the municipal cemeteries.
The purchaser and all those claiming or entering the premises of the city cemetery by, through or under the purchaser or pursuant to the terms of this chapter, hereby release the city, to the full extent permitted by law, from all claims of every kind, including, without limitation, personal injury, property damage, loss or other damages occurring by theft or mysterious disappearance unless cause by or due solely to the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the city or its agents.
(Amd. No. 314, § 2.01, 9-9-2002)
Sec. 16-3. - Management and supervision.
The responsibility for the management, operation, maintenance and general supervision of the city cemetery shall be vested in the city manager.
(Amd. No. 314, § 2.02, 9-9-2002)
Sec. 16-4. - Appointment of superintendent; duties.
(a)
Appointment. The city manager shall appoint a superintendent of the city cemetery, which officer shall be subject to removal at any time by the city manager or mayor and council.
(b)
Duties. The superintendent of the city cemetery shall have the following duties:
(1)
To look after and take proper care of the city cemetery and see that no lot in any cemetery is used or occupied in violation of this chapter or of any rule or regulation promulgated by the mayor and council (except the city manager may vary the rules, regulations and requirements hereof in instances of extreme hardship or need);
(2)
To keep full and detailed accounts of the receipts and expenditures on account of the city cemetery and, at least once a month, to turn over to the city treasurer all monies collected on such accounts; and
(3)
To see to the digging of graves and to the proper interring of the dead when called upon to do so.
(Amd. No. 314, § 2.03, 9-9-2002)
Sec. 16-5. - Purchase and conveyance of lots.
(a)
Lot valuation. The price for all unsold lots in the city cemetery shall be as set forth in the fee schedule maintained by the city clerk adopted in accordance with section 22-1 of the Code. A minimum purchase of two grave lots (sites) shall be required.
(b)
Reservation for city residents. All lots in the city cemetery are reserved for the use of city residents. Upon application to the city, the city manager, upon a finding of one or more of the following special circumstances, may exercise discretion conferred upon him hereby to issue and sell a maximum of two lots to a nonresident of the city:
(1)
The nonresident has a close relative buried in the city cemetery;
(2)
The nonresident was a longtime resident of the city;
(3)
The nonresident was a longtime employee of the city;
(4)
The nonresident had a close affiliation with the operation of the city; or
(5)
The nonresident is or was a major benefactor of the city.
The city manager, should he exercise his discretion hereunder, shall report such to the city council at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
(c)
Method of purchase. Any resident of the city desiring to purchase lots for the purpose for which such are intended shall be permitted to do so upon payment of the price fixed for such lots or upon making arrangements, according to rules and regulations that may be established by the city manager, for the purchase of such lots on a written installment plan. Failure to pay in accordance with the written installment plan shall result in a forfeiture of the right to use said lots and all payments made. There shall be no discrimination in the sale of lots on any basis other than on the requirement of residency in the city.
(d)
Corner markers required. All purchasers of city cemetery lots shall, at the time of purchase, be required to have corner markers placed on said lots.
(e)
Manner of conveying. Conveyances of burial lots shall be executed in the name of the city by the mayor and city clerk and have affixed thereto the seal of the city. Such conveyances shall not convey fee simple title but shall convey to the purchaser of each burial lot an easement for the exclusive right of interment and sepulcher in each lot; shall state the maximum number of graves allowed on each such burial lot as shown by the plat; and, by reference therein made, shall convey each lot subject to all the provisions of this chapter as fully as if set out in each such conveyance.
(f)
Filing of deed. At the time the city conveys any burial lot, the city clerk, in addition to collecting the purchase price thereof, shall file a second original of the deed of the right to the use of said lot in the records of the city. No sale or transfer of any burial lot or any right therein nor any subdividing of any burial lot by any purchaser or those claiming under him shall be valid unless approved in writing by the city and until the deed of transfer and such written approval are filed in the city clerk's office.
(g)
Records of ownership. The city clerk shall keep full and complete records of the ownership of all lot easements in the city cemetery, of the burial capacity of each lot, of the location of each grave and of the names and ages of the persons buried in each grave that has been or shall hereafter be used.
(h)
Deeds. All deeds by the city conveying cemetery lots shall be signed in the name of the city by the mayor and the city clerk and shall have the city corporate seal attached.
(i)
Transfer of title. No sale or transfer of title from one lot owner to another of or to any cemetery lot or part of a lot shall be effective unless authorized by the city manager. No such sale or transfer shall be at a greater price than that for which the lot was purchased from the city. City residency shall not be a mandatory requirement for a transfer of title.
(Amd. No. 314, § 2.04, 9-9-2002; Ord. No. 2010-CO-10-664, § 1, 11-11-2010)
Sec. 16-6. - Lot restrictions.
(a)
Enclosures. No curbing, fencing or enclosure of any sort may be accomplished in any area of the cemetery or in any closed alley within the cemetery except stone coping. The city reserves the right to erect fencing or curbing along the walks and driveways.
(b)
Plantings. No flowers, shrubs, decoration or adornment for any grave site shall be done until the plans for such work have been submitted and approved by the superintendent of the city cemetery.
(c)
Stones and monuments. Owners of cemetery lot easements shall have the right to erect proper stones or monuments marking the burial site; provided, however:
(1)
No slab shall be set other than in a horizontal position and flush with the ground;
(2)
Headstones shall not exceed 36 inches in height above the ground and 36 inches in width for single headstones and 72 inches in width for double headstones and shall be set in a concrete foundation; and
(3)
Monuments of cut stone or marble shall not exceed ten feet in height and the erection of same must be authorized and supervised by the superintendent of the city cemetery.
(d)
Interments. No deceased person shall be interred in any city cemetery until the burial lot has been fully paid for, the party arranging the burial has been determined to have the right of use of the lot and such lot is not beyond its appropriate use capacity. The superintendent of the city cemetery shall ensure that these requirements and restrictions are complied with and that a proper record is made of the name and age of the deceased person and the exact location of the grave. It shall be the ultimate responsibility of the user, owner, funeral home, vault company, etc., to ensure that interment is entirely within the proper cemetery lot and does not violate the provisions of this section.
(Amd. No. 314, § 2.05, 9-9-2002)
Sec. 16-7. - Application of city ordinances.
All provisions of the city ordinances now in force or hereafter enacted relating to and defining public offenses in the city shall, insofar as the same shall be applicable, be in full force and effect in the city cemetery.
(Amd. No. 314, § 3.01, 9-9-2002)
Sec. 16-8. - City authority to regulate cemetery; additional regulations.
The city, pursuant hereto, reserves the right to regulate conduct, activities and uses within its city cemetery. These activities shall be promulgated by rules and regulations generally as authorized pursuant to section 16-2. Violation of any of the following regulations shall, as to each such violation, authorize the imposition of such fines and penalties as are generally provided in the city Charter. In addition to the regulations established pursuant to section 16-2, the following regulations are hereby promulgated:
(1)
Restricted hours. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than duly authorized officers, officials or employees of the city, to enter into or be upon the cemetery grounds of the city during the time after sunset and before sunrise of any day without first obtaining the permission of the city manager or superintendent of said cemetery. It shall further be unlawful at all times for any person to enter or leave the grounds other than by the established and open entrances or gateways.
(2)
Loitering prohibited; minors under 16 years to be accompanied. It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter or trespass upon lots and graves of the city cemetery or for the parent or guardian of any child under the age of 16 to permit such child to be within said cemetery grounds unless accompanied by an adult person; provided that nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit any person having lawful business in the cemetery in connection with improvement thereof or person visiting the graves of relatives or friends from being in said cemetery in accordance with the rules.
(3)
Time limit on items left on lots. It shall be unlawful to leave any items on any cemetery lot in excess of 15 days.
(4)
Gates; closed at dusk. Gates will be installed at both entrances to the cemetery and closed at dusk.
(5)
Speed limit. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in the cemetery faster than ten miles per hour.
(6)
Vehicular traffic.
a.
No person shall drive or move any vehicle within the cemetery except over a roadway open for vehicular traffic or obstruct any path or driveway within the cemetery open to vehicular traffic. No person shall use the cemetery grounds or any driveway therein as a public thoroughfare or drive any vehicle through said grounds except for purposes of making deliveries in the cemetery, attending a graveside service or burial service or visiting any grave site.
b.
It shall be the duty of the cemetery superintendent and his assistants to direct all vehicular traffic, and the superintendent of the cemetery is authorized to direct the parking or standing of all vehicles in said cemetery. No person shall disobey or disregard the directions of the superintendent of the cemetery or any police office of the city relating to the movement or standing of all vehicles within said cemetery.
(7)
Walls.
a.
No new walls may be erected.
b.
Only existing walls may be repaired.
c.
Deteriorating walls, loose brick, etc., may be repaired by the owner or removed by the city if hazardous to employees while working.
(8)
Flower placement; removal after 15 days.
a.
The placing of cut flowers or plastic flowers over individual graves shall be permitted; however, the city shall not be responsible for the care of such flowers or the containers that they are placed in.
b.
The city shall remove, without notice, all flowers, real or artificial, that remain over 15 days or are deteriorated.
(9)
Containers. Only clay, plastic, or recessible-type containers for flowers shall be permitted in the cemetery. No glass, tin or wire shall be allowed due to the danger to the employees when mowing.
(10)
Flag display, etc., restrictions. American flags may be displayed in the cemetery on national holidays only. All other items are prohibited.
(11)
Permanent plantings restricted to city. No permanent planting of any kind shall be allowed in the cemetery. The city will plant trees and shrubs as space allows to prevent interference with other lots in the future.
(12)
Littering prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any rubbish, trash, waste materials, litter or debris of any kind in the city cemetery other than in approved receptacles.
(13)
Defacing of headstones, disturbing graves, etc., prohibited. No person shall remove, injure, mar, deface, throw down or destroy any headstone, monument, survey marker, corner marker, tomb, vault or mausoleum or any cemetery lot in said cemetery or open or disturb any grave or place of burial therein. This shall not prohibit acts by cemetery officers and employees or public officials in carrying out their duties.
(14)
Injuring or cutting landscaping without permit prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to plant any tree, shrub or other plant in the cemetery except those permitted by the general landscape plan approved by the city council. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to cut down, injure, break or destroy any tree, shrub or other plant growing in the cemetery or to pick, pluck or cut any flower or decorative plant except as authorized by the cemetery rules.
(15)
Riding horses, motorcycles, etc., prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to use any part of a city cemetery, its streets and/or drives for riding a horse thereon or riding a motorcycle or motorbike thereon.
(16)
Advertising prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to post any advertisement or sign or to solicit any work in a city cemetery.
(17)
Ground level vaults prohibited. No ground level vaults shall be allowed in the cemetery.
(18)
Authorization required for interment. It shall be unlawful for any person to inter any dead body in any part of a city cemetery without the express authorization of the superintendent of the city cemetery.
(19)
Authorization required for disinterment. Disinterments shall be made only when authorized by the city manager and superintendent of the cemetery.
(Amd. No. 314, § 3.02, 9-9-2002)
Sec. 16-9. - City right to correct errors.
If an error is committed in the interment of the remains of any person, the city reserves the right to remove and re-inter the remains in such other property of equal value and similar location as may be substituted and conveyed in lieu of the mistaken property.
(Amd. No. 314, § 3.03, 9-9-2002)
