ARTICLE VI. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 601 - Accessory uses or structures.
Accessory uses or structures shall be permitted only in rear yards, except as otherwise provided in this ordinance.
No accessory building or structure shall be erected on a lot prior to the time of construction of the principal building to which it is accessory.
Accessory uses or structures shall be permitted if they meet the following:
1.
Only one detached accessory structure or building shall be permitted on a lot, and it shall be located in the rear yard.
2.
It shall be set back not less than ten feet from any lot line.
3.
An accessory building or structure located on a lot within a platted subdivision shall not be any larger than 16' × 20'. However, a free standing garage may be as large as 20' × 24' provided it is used solely to house automotive vehicles and personal use yard and garden equipment.
4.
When an accessory building or structure is attached to the principal building it shall comply with the yard requirements of the principal building to which it is accessory.
5.
The height of an accessory building or structure shall not exceed 15 feet or surpass the adjacent primary structure gabled roof line.
6.
Accessory buildings or structures in residential districts shall not be used for any type of commercial operation whether permanent, part-time or as part of a limited home occupation except as otherwise provided for in this ordinance.
7.
An accessory building or structure built after January 1, 2000 must adhere to the following:
a.
The exterior building material of any accessory building or structure must be composed of a material that would be permitted on the exterior of a residential structure in the city and must coordinate with the exterior of the principal building on the lot;
b.
The accessory building or structure must not detract from the value of the neighboring properties;
c.
The accessory building or structure must have a gabled roof design;
d.
Installation of the accessory building or structure requires proper permitting by the City of Morrow.
8.
In no event shall consumer fireworks retail sales facilities or consumer fireworks retail sales stands be permitted as an accessory use in any district.
(Ord. No. 2005-02, § I, 4-12-05; Ord. No. 2009-06, § 7, 5-26-09; Ord. No. 2017-03 , § 5, 2-28-17)
Section 602 - Minimum setback requirement-corner lots.
In any zoning district, where a lot is located on a corner the minimum front yard setback and the side yard having street frontage shall have the same minimum setback. Where a zoning district requires a greater side yard setback, the stricter provision shall govern.
(Ord. No. 2005-02, § I, 4-12-05)
Section 603 - Minimum floor area requirements.
The floor area requirements as contained in this ordinance refer to heated living space. Heated living space is not to include porches, carports, decks or garages.
(Ord. No. 2005-02, § I, 4-12-05)
Section 604 - City and county approvals that are required.
All city and county approvals that are required for the use of land and structures and for the location and operation of businesses and industries shall be obtained by the applicant and transmitted by him with his request for a building permit, an occupancy permit, a zoning amendment, or a variance. Except as otherwise required by state law, no local action shall be taken and no public hearings shall be held until the above required approvals have been obtained by the applicant.
(Ord. No. 2005-02, § I, 4-12-05)
Section 605 - Approvals for commercial and industrial developments on state highways.
For all business and industrial developments fronting on a state highway, no building permit shall be issued until the approval of the Georgia Department of Transportation has been obtained by the applicant on entrances and exits, curb radii, drainage and other matters that are the appropriate concern of the department.
(Ord. No. 2005-02, § I, 4-12-05)
