ARTICLE XVIII. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Section 1801 - Provisions declared to be minimum requirements.
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this ordinance shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this ordinance are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinance, deed restrictions, or covenants, the most restrictive or that imposing higher standards shall govern.
Section 1802 - Penalties for violation.
It is unlawful to violate the provisions of this ordinance or to fail to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances, special exceptions or conditional uses). Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $1,000 and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
Section 1803 - Remedies.
If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained or if any building, structure or land is used in violation of this ordinance, the mayor or city council of Morrow, the building inspector, the zoning enforcement officer, the city engineer or any adjacent or other property owner or anyone else who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action in proceeding to stop the violation in the case of such building, structure or land use.
Section 1804 - Separability.
Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
Section 1805 - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this zoning ordinance, or inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance, including the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Morrow (Ordinance No. 73-17), as amended are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give this ordinance full force and effect.
This ordinance shall take effect and shall be in force from and after the 25th day of March, 1986.
Ordained, adopted and approved by the mayor and city council of the City of Morrow after a public hearing on the 25th day of March, 1986.
Approved as to Legal Sufficiency:
_____ City Attorney, City of Morrow
_____ Mayor, City of Morrow
/s/ ;hg; _____
City Manager, City of Morrow
