ARTICLE D. - PRECIOUS METALS AND GEMS DEALERS[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to regulate additional to state law, O.C.G.A., § 43-37-5; dealers in precious metals and gems generally, O.C.G.A., § 43-37-1 et seq.

Sec. 9-4-61. - License required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, attempt to sell, buy, barter, or otherwise deal in the transfer of precious stones, jewelry, gold, silver, and other valuable metal, without first registering with the business license administrator and obtaining a business license for such transactions. These transactions will be limited to dealers, wholesalers and retailers, who are eligible for licensing in the city as dominant business activities.
(b)
Employees who are involved in the selling, purchasing or negotiating of precious metals are required to register with the city on a form provided by the city for that purpose. A permit with a photo affixed will be issued and a fee will be charged to all applicants for the same. Such fee may be changed from time to time by resolution of the mayor and council. Registration shall be accomplished annually on the anniversary of initial registration in the same manner as previously stated. Such permits allow an employee who sells, purchases or negotiates precious metals to work in any appropriate retail establishment in the city. Such permits must be worn, clearly visible to the public, at all times when the holder of the permit is engaged in the selling, purchasing or negotiating of precious metals.
(c)
Persons under the age of 18 years may be employed in or about places of business where precious metals are purchased, provided such persons shall be prohibited from the purchasing and negotiating of precious metals.
(d)
Precious metals shall only be purchased or negotiated by employees of the establishment.
(Code 1977, § 8-4009(a); Ord. No. 2010-20, 8-10-10)
Sec. 9-4-62. - Business required to meet requirements of section.
Other businesses conducting such transactions on the effective date of this section [January 13, 1981], shall be permitted to continue such operations providing all of the following requirements are met.
(Code 1977, § 8-4009(b))
Sec. 9-4-63. - Licensee required to have at least a one year lease on business site.
A prospective licensee must have at least a one year lease on the business site for which the application applies or own the business site. The express purpose of this provision is to prohibit the buying and selling from temporary locations.
(Code 1977, § 8-4009(c))
Sec. 9-4-64. - Exclusions.
Persons involved in personal transactions, involving their personal assets not related to a business entity as a buyer or seller, are excluded from this article.
(Code 1977, § 8-4009(g))
Sec. 9-4-65. - Purchase form.
Purchases will be regulated by the following and reflected on a form provided by the administrator:
(1)
Positive identification will be made of any prospective seller to include, but not be limited to, name, date of birth, address, right thumb print on form provided, driver's license number, social security number, race, sex, and signature of seller.
(2)
Purchases will not be made from a minor under 18 years of age.
(3)
A full description of each item is to be recorded on the appropriate form, including any special identifying marks and serial numbers.
(4)
Prior to disposal by any method, all items purchased, other than from authorized vendors, will be retained for 14 days from the date of purchase.
(Code 1977, § 8-4009(d))
Sec. 9-4-66. - False names.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use a false or fictitious name or address as his own, or to give the name or address of any other person without that person's knowledge and approval, as a means of identification while selling, or attempting to sell precious stones, jewelry, gold, or silver and other precious metals within the city limits.
(Code 1977, § 8-4009(e))
Sec. 9-4-67. - Records.
Each licensee will throw open his books, records, and items, including those covered by other sections of this code, for review and inspection by any police officer or the city manager. Failure to administer the provisions of this section, either by failing to obtain positive identification or by failing to maintain accurate records, shall be grounds for the citation for such offenses under this title and chapter of the code of ordinances.
(Code 1977, § 8-4009(f))
Secs. 9-4-68—9-4-80. - Reserved.
