CHAPTER 1. - PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 99-05, § 1(A), adopted Feb. 9, 1999, provided that references to "planning commission" be changed to read "planning and zoning board" throughout the Code.

Sec. 8-1-1. - Authority; creation.
Pursuant to the powers granted by Ga. Const. of 1983, Art. IX, Sec. II, Para. IV, there is hereby established a planning and zoning board for the city.
(Code 1977, § 1-4012(a); Ord. No. 99-05, § 1(A), 2-9-99)
Sec. 8-1-2. - Members.
(a)
The planning and zoning board shall be composed of five citizens of the city, who shall hold no other public office in the city. Each appointment shall be for a term of five years, which terms shall be staggered with one seat open for appointment each year. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term. Appointments shall be made by the mayor and council who shall have the authority to remove any member of the commission for cause after written notice and a public hearing.
(b)
The compensation of the members, if any, shall be determined by the mayor and council.
(Code 1977, § 1-4012(b), (h))
Sec. 8-1-3. - Officers.
(a)
The planning and zoning board shall elect one of its members as chairperson, and one of its members as vice chairperson, each of whom will serve for one year or until he is reelected or his successor is elected.
(b)
The planning and zoning board shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer or an employee of the city or a member of the planning and zoning board.
(Code 1977, § 4012(c), (d))
Sec. 8-1-4. - Meetings; records.
The planning and zoning board shall meet at least once each month at the call of the chairperson and at any other times as the chairperson or board may determine, shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public record.
(Code 1977, § 1-4012(e))
State Law reference— Georgia Sunshine law, O.C.G.A., § 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 8-1-5. - Powers and duties.
The planning and zoning board shall have the power and duty to:
(1)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the mayor and council a zoning ordinance or resolution and map for the city. All proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance shall be first submitted to the planning and zoning board for its consideration and recommendation to the mayor and council.
(2)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the mayor and council regulations for the subdivision of land within the city, and to administer the regulations that may be adopted in accordance with sections 8-6-5 and 8-6-7.
(3)
Perform such other duties as directed from time to time by the mayor and council.
