Title 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1. - USE OF THE CODE AND PENALTIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 1-1-1. - How code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, City of Morrow, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1977, § 11-1001)
Sec. 1-1-2. - Rules of construction.
Unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council, in the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed:
City. The word "city" shall mean the City of Morrow, Georgia.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege, or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted; and if the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the part having that privilege or duty, shall have through the following Monday to exercise that privilege or to discharge such duty.
Council. The word "council" shall mean the mayor and council of the City of Morrow, Georgia.
County. The word "county" shall mean the County of Clayton, Georgia unless otherwise indicated.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision or section of this Code appears requiring the head of a department or other appointed officer of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection, unless the terms of the provision of section expressly designate otherwise.
Gender. A work importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be appointed to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority of those persons or officers.
May. The word "may" is always discretionary and not mandatory.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Number. Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and words used in the plural shall include the singular number.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Other officials or officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commission, departments, etc., of the City of Morrow, Georgia.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next and next after, respectively.
Shall. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary.
Signature and subscription. Signature and subscription shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The word "state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated rights-of-way.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean seven days, unless otherwise specified.
Written, in writing. "Written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year, except as may pertain to fiscal year which may be different than a calendar year.
Sec. 1-1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The underlined [or boldface] catchlines of sections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so deemed when any of the sections including the catchlines are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1977, § 11-1003)
Sec. 1-1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1977, § 11-1004)
Sec. 1-1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code.
(Code 1977, § 11-1005)
Sec. 1-1-6. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein.When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, the repealed portion may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language:
"That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Morrow, Georgia is hereby amended to read as follows:
(Set out new provisions in full)."
(c)
When the mayor and council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the mayor and council desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance:
"Section _____. It is the intention of the mayor and council and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Morrow, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish that intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(e)
When necessary, sections and subsections to the Code may be renumbered by the official codifier for the city to fulfill the intent of the governing body but all such changes shall be approved in advance by the city attorney.
Sec. 1-1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change, or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1977, § 11-1007)
Sec. 1-1-8. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance, rule, regulation or order of the city any act is prohibited or made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in the Code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order shall be punished at the discretion of the municipal court judge up to the maximum allowed by the City Charter.
(Code 1977, § 1-1-8)
Note— See the editor's footnote to Art. VII of the Charter.
Charter reference— Fines, imprisonment or sentencing to public labor, § 7.03.
State Law reference— Alternative sentencing, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-1-9. - Continuing violations.
A violation of the City Code of Ordinances or City Regulations to any extent whatsoever for which a citation may be, is or has been issued shall be considered a new violation and a separate violation for each date of continuance of such violation from the first date of written notification or citation by the city code enforcement personnel or police department personnel and may be treated as such by the recorder's [municipal] court by utilizing the general provisions for penalties ascribed in section 7.03 of the City Charter.
(Ord. No. 89-10, § 1, 7-11-89)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 89-10, § 1, adopted July 11, 1989, pertaining to continuing violations, did not specify manner of codification; hence, such provisions have been designated by the editor as § 1-1-9.
