Chapter 32 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Traffic generally, O.C.G.A. title 40; powers of local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-370 et seq.

Sec. 32-1. - Rules of the road adopted.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372 through 40-6-376, O.C.G.A. title 49, ch. 6 (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.), known as the "Uniform Rules of the Road," and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as traffic regulations of the city with like effect as if recited herein.
(Ord. No. 51, § 1, 12-28-1973)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt state traffic laws by reference, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372.
Sec. 32-2. - Traffic entering and leaving Lula Lake Road from the driveway between the gasoline service station and the shopping center.
(a)
All vehicular traffic other than emergency vehicles are herewith prohibited from entering the driveway between the gasoline service station and the shopping center in the city from Lula Lake Road.
(b)
The chief of police is herewith authorized and directed to cause and permit to be erected signs at the entrance to said driveway necessary, in the chief's opinion, to give notice of and to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 20, §§ 1, 2, 11-20-1969)
Sec. 32-3. - Pied Piper Trail made one-way street.
(a)
All vehicular traffic shall be one-way east-bound on Pied Piper Trail between Lula Lake Road and Elfin Road.
(b)
The proper officers of the city are authorized to erect any signs necessary to give notice of and to enforce the provisions of this section, all in accordance with law.
(Ord. No. 73, §§ 1, 2, 9-15-1977)
State Law reference— Authority to designate one-way streets, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(4).
Sec. 32-4. - Speed limits.
There is hereby adopted by the city, the following speed restrictions within the below-described areas:
(1)
On-system.
EXPAND
State
Route From Mile Point To Mile Point Length in Miles Speed Limit
S.R. 157 Dade County Line 31.08 State Route 189 31.46 0.38 30
State Route 189 31.46 C.S. 900/Fleetwood Dr. 32.58 1.12 25
C.S. 900/Fleetwood Drive 32.58 50 feet south of the
Tennessee State Line 33.29 0.71 30
S.R. 189 State Route 157 12.51 Tennessee State Line 13.27 0.86 30
  Signs to be erected by the state department of transportation.
(2)
School zone hours effective.
a.
Morning: from 30 minutes prior to commencement time to 30 minutes after commencement time (school days only).
b.
Afternoon: from 30 minutes prior to dismissal time to 30 minutes after dismissal time (school days only).
Signs to be erected by the state department of transportation.
(3)
Off-system.
EXPAND
Road Name From To Length in Miles Speed Limit
Aladdin Road Wood Nymph Trail Hardy Road 0.55 25
Cinderella Road Wood Nymph Trail Hardy Road 0.62 25
Elfin Road Rock City Trail Hardy Road 0.35 25
Fleetwood Drive S.R. 157 (Red Riding Hood Trail) Robin Hood Trail 0.70 25
Hardy Road Fleetwood Drive Lula Lake Road 0.35 25
Lula Lake Road Sawmill Branch Tennessee State Line 3.07 25
Peter Pan Road Wood Nymph Trail Hardy Road 0.60 25
Princess Trail Fleetwood Drive Lula Lake Road 0.34 25
Robin Hood Trail Fleetwood Drive Lula Lake Road 0.40 25
Wood Nymph Trail and Patten Road Lula Lake Road S.R. 157 (Red Riding Hood Trail) 2.40 25
  Signs to be erected by the city.
(Ord. No. 193, § 1, 11-18-1999; Ord. No. 293, § 1, 3-24-2016)
State Law reference— Authority to set speed limits, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-183.
Sec. 32-5. - Parking on or in front of residential property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to park, or allow to stop or stand for more than five minutes any automobile, truck, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street in front of any property in the residential area of the city except those belonging to the owner or a lawful occupant of such property, or one of his agents, employees, guests, licensees or invitees.
(b)
Subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to a necessary stop, such as for repairs, to obtain directions or help or to make bona fide inquiries for the period, and only the period, necessary for such purpose or to parking for social or other noncommercial purposes, pursuant to permission obtained in advance from the police and fire department, in the manner directed by such department.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-36), 9-17-1970)
State Law reference— Authority to regulate or prohibit stopping, standing or parking, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(1).
Sec. 32-6. - Motorized carts.
(a)
Findings and intent. The ordinance from which this section is derived is adopted in the interest of public safety. Motorized carts and other similar vehicles are not designed or manufactured to be used on public highways, streets and roads (hereafter public roads), and the city in no way advocates their operation on the public roads within its jurisdiction. Adoption of the ordinance from which this section is derived is not to be relied upon as a determination by the city that the operation of motorized carts or other similar vehicles on public roads is safe or advisable if done in accordance with this section. By regulating such operation, the city is merely addressing safety issues. All persons who operate or ride in motorized carts or other similar vehicles on public roads do so based on their own judgment and at their own risk and must be observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, the city has no liability in negligence, nuisance or under any other cause of action for injuries or losses resulting from the use of motorized carts or other similar vehicles on roads, sidewalks, recreation paths, rights-of-way or other public property. Any person who operates motorized carts or other similar vehicles is responsible for procuring appropriate insurance as may be required by state law and this section.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Motorized cart means a motor vehicle having no less than four wheels and an unladen weight of 1,300 pounds or less and which cannot operate at more than 20 miles per hour. A golf cart satisfying the foregoing requirements is included in the definition of the term "motorized cart."
Unladen weight means the weight of a vehicle without a load as per the manufacturer's specifications for such vehicle.
Valid motor vehicle driver's license means any current and valid certificate issued by this state or another state of the United States of America, which permits persons to operate motor vehicles on the public roads of the state.
(c)
Operation of motorized carts on certain city streets.
(1)
Pursuant to the authority granted by O.C.G.A. § 40-6-331, the city hereby designates all municipal streets of the city, other than Lula Lake Road to the north of its intersection with Hardy Road and to the south of its intersection with Wood Nymph Trail, as being for the combined use of motorized carts and regular vehicular traffic. Motorized carts may cross any municipal streets that are part of the city's municipal street system at any municipal street crossing or intersection, but, as provided below, may not cross any county or state road except at the intersection of Cinderella Road with Red Riding Hood Trail (Georgia Highway 157).
(2)
The authorizations granted by subsection (c)(1) of this section apply only to municipal streets of the city. Motorized carts may not be operated on any county or state road or highway within the city, and, except as provided in the following sentence, may not cross any county or state road or highway within the city, even if the motorized cart is traveling on a municipal street at the time of such crossing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, based upon the specific authorization and approval of the state department of transportation, motorized carts may cross Georgia Highway 157 at its intersection with Cinderella Road, but it is specifically ordained that motorized carts may not cross or travel upon any other county or state road or highway within the city.
(d)
Regulatory requirements.
(1)
All motorized carts operating within the city will be subject to all traffic control laws, regulations, signs and devices of the city and the state. All laws and ordinances relative to alcohol and its use, including open container laws, which apply to traffic on the streets of the city, shall also apply to drivers and occupants of motorized carts.
(2)
Motorized carts may only be operated on the municipal streets of the city (other than Lula Lake Road to the north of its intersection with Hardy Road and to the south of its intersection with Wood Nymph Trail) and in driveways and parking lots where the operator of the motorized cart has been invited or has permission to be. Motorized carts may not be operated on pedestrian pathways, sidewalks, or multi-use pathways and may not be operated on any other publicly-owned property other than the municipal streets of the city (other than Lula Lake Road). Motorized carts may not be operated in or be driven across any yard other than the yard of the motorized cart's owner.
(3)
Motorized carts may only be operated on the streets of the city during full daylight and may not be operated during the period from 30 minutes before sunset to 30 minutes after sunrise.
(4)
Each person driving a motorized cart in the city must be at least 16 years of age and must possess a valid motor vehicle driver's license issued by the state or by the driver's state of residence; provided, however, that a person at least 15 years of age who possesses a valid learner's permit issued by the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-5-24 may operate a motorized cart if accompanied in the front seat by a person at least 21 years of age who possesses a valid motor vehicle driver's license.
(5)
Each occupant of a motorized cart must remain seated at all times in the seats provided for occupants and must be secured by his own seat belt at all times when the motorized cart is in motion. The number of occupants in any motorized cart may not exceed the number of seat belts permanently installed on the motorized cart. Children's car seats used on motorized carts must be approved by the manufacturer for use with lap belts only, without the necessity of a shoulder strap. Children's car seats may only be used in the front seats of motorized carts and in middle, forward-facing seats. Under no circumstances may children's car seats be used in rear-facing seats on the back of a motorized cart.
(6)
Motorized carts must at all times be maintained in a manner which ensures an unobstructed view from the driver's seat looking forward and to the rear.
(7)
All motorized carts operating in the city must have four wheels. Motorized carts must be equipped with head lamps, stop lamps, turn signal lamps, tail lamps, two reflex reflectors on the rear of the vehicle, and a vehicle serial number. The required reflex reflectors may be included as part of the housing for the tail lamps or may be separate.
(8)
Motorized carts operating in the city must be capable of traveling at a minimum speed of 15 miles per hour. The registration process contemplated by subsection (d)(10) of this section will include verification that the motorized cart is capable of traveling at least 19 miles per hour.
(9)
Gasoline-powered motorized carts are specifically prohibited.
(10)
The owner of each motorized cart to be operated within the city must register such motorized cart with the city clerk before the motorized cart may be operated within the city. Registration will be on such forms as may be requested by the city clerk, and such forms shall include, at a minimum, the owner's name and address, the type of motorized cart (e.g., golf cart), the vehicle serial number, the insurance carrier providing liability insurance for the motorized cart, and the insurance policy number. Proof of liability insurance with policy limits equal to the minimum limits required for other motor vehicles in the state must be provided to the city clerk as a condition of registration. Each such registration must be renewed annually. A registration fee as determined by the city council from time to time per year will be charged.
(11)
Two numerical decals will be issued to the owner of the motorized cart upon each registration and renewal under subsection (d)(10) of this section. Such decals shall be affixed to the right front and right rear of each motorized cart and must be easily visible as proof of current registration. A record of each motorized cart's serial number, current decal number, name and address of the owner, and liability insurance policy number will be maintained by the city clerk.
(e)
Violations. The chief of police or any police officer of the city may issue citations for violations of this section. In determining the amount of the fine to be assessed for a violation, the municipal judge may consider whether the motorized cart was being operated on any road or highway not authorized by this section or had crossed a county or state road or highway at a prohibited location, whether there was a violation of this section's requirements regarding seatbelts, whether any minor children were on the motorized cart at the time the violation occurred, and/or whether the motorized cart was being operated without being properly registered as required by subsection (d)(10) of this section. If motorized carts owned by any person are the subject of three violations of this section, the registrations for all motorized carts owned by that person shall be immediately and automatically revoked, and that person may not thereafter register or operate any motorized cart within the city.
(Ord. No. 286, §§ 1—5, 6-18-2015)
