Chapter 22 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 22-1. - Loud, unnecessary, etc., noises prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or allow, suffer, permit or cause to be made or continued, any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the city.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-3), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-2. - Begging and soliciting alms.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accosting means approaching or speaking to someone in such a manner as would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon his person, or upon property in his immediate possession.
Ask, beg or solicit means and includes, without limitation, the spoken, written or printed word or such other acts as are conducted in furtherance of the purpose of obtaining alms.
Forcing oneself upon the company of another means continuing to request, beg or solicit alms from a person after that person has made a negative response, blocking the passage of the individual addressed, or otherwise engaging in conduct which could reasonably be construed as intended to compel or force a person to accede to demands.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit money or other things of value:
(1)
On private property if the owner, tenant, or lawful occupant has asked the person not to solicit on the property, or has posted a sign clearly indicating that solicitations are not welcome on the property;
(2)
Within 15 feet of the entrance to or exit from any public toilet facility;
(3)
Within 15 feet of an automated teller machine, provided that when an automated teller machine is located within an automated teller machine facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the automated teller machine facility;
(4)
Within 15 feet of any pay telephone, provided that when a pay telephone is located within a telephone booth or other facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the telephone booth or facility;
(5)
In any public transportation vehicle, or in any bus or subway station, or within 15 feet of any bus stop or taxi stand;
(6)
From any operator of a motor vehicle that is in traffic on a public street; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to services rendered in connection with emergency repairs requested by the owner or passengers of such vehicle;
(7)
From any person who is waiting in line for entry to any building, public or private, including, but not limited to, any residence, business, or athletic facility; or
(8)
Within 15 feet of the entrance or exit from a building, public or private, including, but not limited to, any residence, business, or athletic facility.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit money or other things of value:
(1)
By accosting another; or
(2)
By forcing oneself upon the company of another.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-6), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-3. - Picnicking.
(a)
Where prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to picnic on the right-of-way of any street or alley, or on any public property within the city unless such property shall have been specifically designated by the city as a picnic area, or upon any private property without the prior express permission of the owner or lawful occupants.
(b)
Defined. Picnicking, as used in subsection (a) of this section, means any form of cooking, preparing, serving or consumption of any food or beverage, or both, outdoors.
(Ord. No. 29, §§ 1(12-17), 1(12-18), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-4. - Burials.
No person shall bury or cause to be buried any dead human body in any place in the city, other than a cemetery licensed by the city.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-19), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-5. - Guns, etc.
Unless in self-defense or in the execution of law, it shall be unlawful for any person in the city to use, point, fire or discharge any firearm, gun, bow or other weapon or instrument by which missiles may be projected by explosives, springs, air or other force.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-20), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-6. - Weapons.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except police officers in the due and proper course of their duties for evidentiary or police purposes, to have in his possession, actual or constructive, any switchblade knife, stiletto, blackjack, slapjack or set of brass knuckles, or any swindling device.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-22), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-7. - Congregating on streets or street corners.
It shall be unlawful for persons to congregate upon any of the streets or street corners in the city to the annoyance of citizens or to the obstruction of traffic. The officers of the police and fire department shall disperse all such gatherings on the streets and keep the streets open.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-23), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-8. - Deposit of offensive substances in street, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to throw into the street or any other public place, or on the property of others, any filth or obnoxious substance, or to permit the same to flow from his premises into the right-of-way of any street, any sidewalk or any public place, or in or on the property of others.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-24), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-9. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to use boisterous, offensive, provocative or threatening language in any public place, or to make or to countenance or assist in making any improper noise, disturbance, breach of the peace or diversion, or to conduct himself in a disorderly manner, in any place, to the annoyance of others.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-25), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-10. - Interference with rights of others.
No person shall so conduct himself, individually or in concert with others, in the use of or upon or in any property, public or private, so as to interfere with the free and uninterrupted use of such property by others lawfully there.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-27), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-11. - Transportation of intoxicating beverages.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any taxicab or other vehicle for hire to transport any beer, wine, whiskey or other intoxicating beverage within the city except such as may be owned by a fare-paying passenger actually in the vehicle at the same time.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to sell, deliver to a purchaser or produce within the city any whiskey or other intoxicating beverage in respect of which all required federal taxes have not been paid or for which all requisite licenses have not been obtained.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-28), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-12. - Pedestrians; conduct on sidewalks, etc.
When two or more pedestrians are together, they shall not proceed, loiter or stand upon the sidewalks, crosswalks, streets, alleys or parking places so as to interrupt or obstruct the free passage of other persons and vehicles. If they halt, they shall stand so as to leave abundant room for other persons and vehicles to pass in both directions without turning in or out.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-29), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-13. - Prowling.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to prowl or loiter about any dwelling or business house, outbuilding or other building for the purpose of spying or peeping therein or otherwise invading the privacy of others.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-30), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-14. - Throwing objects at houses on properties.
It shall be unlawful, except in the normal delivery of newspapers, for any person to throw or fling any stone, missile or other object against any house or other building in the city, or against or through the window of any building, public or private, or to throw any stones, missiles, paper, debris or other objects on the private property of others.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-31), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-15. - Pyrotechnics; regulated.
(a)
For the purposes of this section, the term "pyrotechnics" shall mean any sparkler, squib, rocket, firecracker, Roman candle, fire balloon, signal light, railroad track torpedo, flashlight composition, fireworks or other devices or composition used to obtain visible or audible pyrotechnic display.
(b)
No person shall have, keep, store, use, manufacture, sell, handle or transport any pyrotechnics in the city, provided that the police chief may, upon due application, issue a permit to a properly qualified person for giving a pyrotechnic display of fireworks in school grounds, club grounds, or other open places. Such permits shall impose such restrictions as may, in the opinion of the chief, be necessary to properly safeguard life and property in each case. The applicant for such permit shall file a bond deemed adequate in each case by the chief, which shall become available for the payment of any damage arising from the negligence of the holder of such permit or his agents or employees.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-33), 9-17-1970)
State Law reference— Fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.
Sec. 22-16. - Camping.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to set up any tent or similar shelter or camping facility in the city at any time or to park or to allow to stop or stand for more than five minutes in the city between sun-down and sun-up any camper, truck, trailer or other vehicle used, or intended to be used, for sleeping.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to sleep outdoors or in any automobile or other vehicle, tent, camping facility or shelter in the city between sun-down and sun-up.
(c)
Subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply to:
(1)
Parking while properly transacting business with the city, any licensed commercial establishment or any public institution;
(2)
Use of any licensed campground or trailer park; or
(3)
Noncommercial use of real property by an owner or lawful occupant thereof, or by any guests of such owner or occupant.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-37), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-17. - Human feces.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any human feces at any place in the city other than in a properly operating water closet connected to a septic tank approved by the county health department or a public sewer.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-38), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-18. - Septic tanks and grease traps.
No person shall permit any septic tank, grease trap, or incidental facility under his control to be in such condition that it gives off any offensive odor, or any effluent therefrom runs or appears on the surface of any street, alley or the property of any other person.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-39), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-19. - Harmful chemicals.
No person shall use any pesticide, weed killer, or any chemical harmful to or destructive of animal life or vegetation upon the right-of-way of any street or on any public property without a prior written permit from the head of the department of streets, or upon any property of any other person without the prior written consent of the owner or lawful occupant of such property.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-40), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 22-20. - Noise.
(a)
Loud, disturbing noises prohibited, generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise in the city.
(b)
Sound measurement. For the purpose of determining the maximum sound levels permitted by this article, sound shall be measured in decibels on the A-weighting network on a sound level meter of standard design and quality, type 2 or better, having characteristics established by the American National Standards Institute. The levels so read are designated in dB(A).
(c)
Amplified sound.
(1)
It shall be unlawful to operate or allow the operation of any sound amplification equipment so as to create sounds registering 55 dB(A) between 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. or 50 dB(A) between 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., as measured anywhere within the boundary lines of the nearest residentially occupied property, except in accordance with a permit obtained from the city manager pursuant to subsection (d) of this section.
(2)
The foregoing limitations in subsection (c)(1) of this section on the operation of sound amplification equipment shall not apply to the operation of horns, sirens, or other emergency warning devices actually used in emergency circumstances.
(d)
Permits for additional amplification.
(1)
Application. A special permit for additional amplification may be obtained only through the application and permitting procedure set forth in this subsection. The application for a permit for additional amplification shall be submitted to the city manager at least 15 working days in advance of the planned use, except in the case of an emergency. The application shall designate an individual person who will be in control of the sound amplification equipment and who will ensure that its use complies with the terms of the permit and of this subsection.
(2)
Notice of tentative approval. Upon tentative approval, the applicant for a permit shall be responsible for mailing or otherwise delivering to the occupants of each property within a 2,000-foot radius of the facility for which the permit has been granted, as shown on the tax maps of the county, a notice stating the date and hours of the event. The notice shall be delivered at least 72 hours in advance of the event. The permit shall not be actually granted and issued until the applicant submits an affidavit to the city manager that such notices have actually been mailed or otherwise delivered.
(3)
Number of hours. No permits shall be issued pursuant to this subsection which shall have the effect of allowing any property owner or other applicant more than ten hours of excess amplification per year.
(4)
Denial; exceptional permit. If any applicant has been denied a permit under this section and believes the denial is illegal by virtue of applicable state or federal law, he shall promptly submit a copy of the denied permit application, together with a short statement of the reasons he believes he is entitled to a permit, to the city manager. The city manager shall have the discretion to grant an exceptional permit waiving locational, time, and/or dB(A) requirement, upon his determination that the applicant has made a substantial showing of legal entitlement. Any such exceptional permit shall be promptly reported to the city council.
(e)
Enforcement and penalties. Where there is a violation of any provisions of this article, the city, in its discretion, may take one or more of the following enforcement actions:
(1)
The chief of police or any other police officer shall have the authority to enter onto the premises from which any unlawful noise or unlawful amplified sound is emanating and may require that the unlawful noise and/or excess amplified sound cease immediately. The failure of any person to obey the officer's directive shall constitute a separate violation of this article.
(2)
The person responsible for the violation of this article (including, but not limited to, the person in charge of the premises or activity at the time the violation occurs, the property owner or official of such property owner who has authorized or is otherwise responsible for the activity, and the individuals actually creating the unreasonably loud and disturbing noise and/or excess amplified sound) may be arrested and punished as provided in section 1-8.
(3)
A civil action seeking a penalty of up to $2,000.00 per day of violation plus injunction and order of abatement may be brought against any person creating or allowing the creation of any unlawful noise or excess amplified sound, including the owner or person otherwise having legal or actual control of the premises from which the noise or sound emanates. If the court grants any relief pursuant to this provision, the city shall be entitled to recover all costs and attorney fees incurred in bringing the action.
(Ord. No. 191, §§ 1—5, 10-21-1999)
