Chapter 12 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Employment and training of peace officers, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.; firefighter training and standards, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1 et seq.; local fire departments, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 12-19. - Department created; composition generally.
There is hereby created a police and fire department (referred to in this article as the "department") to be under the direction and control of the chief of police or chief of fire and police (the "chief") who may have one or more deputy or assistant police and/or fire chiefs. Such department shall be staffed as provided by the council and may include paid police officers and fire fighters as well as unpaid volunteers.
Sec. 12-20. - Volunteer fire organization.
(a)
The department is authorized to establish or continue a volunteer fire organization whose membership shall consist of firefighters who serve on a non-remunerative basis and who otherwise meet the qualification requirements which the volunteer fire organization shall establish. The volunteer fire organization may elect such officers as its membership deems appropriate or necessary. Nothing herein, however, shall preclude officers of the department or other city officials or employees from becoming members or officers of the volunteer fire organization nor preclude officers or members of the volunteer fire organization from becoming officers of the department.
(b)
The volunteer fire organization shall be under the direct supervision, control and management of the chief and/or a deputy or assistant chief who is a qualified firefighter and shall be responsible for assisting the chief in accomplishing the fire protection objectives of the department.
(c)
The deputy or assistant chief or elected volunteer leader of the volunteer fire organization shall submit an annual report to the chief of all activities of the volunteer fire organization during the city's preceding fiscal year. Such report shall be submitted within 30 days after the close of the city's fiscal year, and shall be attached to and form a part of the chief's annual report.
(Code 1969, § 2-60; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-60), 1-1-1969)
Sec. 12-21. - Administration of department personnel.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private purpose.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any apparatus or equipment of the department unless accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized member of the department.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open or shut or in any way to injure or interfere with any fire plug in the city, to draw any water therefrom or cause any water to flow therefrom for any purpose other than the extinguishment of fires. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to do any of the acts prohibited herein for any unauthorized purpose.
(Code 1969, § 2-51; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-51), 1-1-1969)
Secs. 12-22—12-53. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RESPONSE TO FIRES BEYOND CITY LIMITS

Sec. 12-54. - Response to fires beyond city limits prohibited except as provided in this article.
It shall be unlawful for the department to answer a call in the event of fire at or upon any properly lying and being without the fire protection limits of the city.
(Code 1969, § 2-52; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-52), 1-1-1969)
Sec. 12-55. - Fire protection limits.
The fire protection limits of the city are hereby defined to be the corporate limits of the city, together with all property which meets the requirements of sections 12-56 through 12-60; all property adjacent or near to the limits of the city as provided in section 12-61, and all property which is the subject of any contract or mutual assistance pact to which the city is signatory and which requires fire department response to alarms.
(Code 1969, § 2-53; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-53), 1-1-1969)
Sec. 12-56. - When permitted generally.
Any person desiring the service of the department for the purpose of fire protection to property located beyond the corporate limits of the city shall be required to guarantee to the city payment for services as herein provided and to comply with the provisions of this division.
(Code 1969, § 2-54; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-54), 1-1-1969)
Sec. 12-57. - Registration.
Such person shall register such property and the location thereof at the office of the city clerk and pay an annual registration fee in the amount determined from time to time by the city council, plus all amounts owing to the city either directly or on accounts assigned to it.
(Code 1969, § 2-55; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-55), 1-1-1969)
Sec. 12-58. - Description of property, etc.
The registration required by section 12-57 shall accurately and completely describe the premises, giving the name of the tenant, if the same is occupied by a tenant. It shall be the duty of the property owner to inform the office of the chief of police of any change in occupancy in the premises wherein protection is sought.
(Code 1969, § 2-56; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-56), 1-1-1969)
Sec. 12-59. - Inspection.
(a)
The registration required by section 12-57 shall contain a provision allowing and permitting an initial inspection of such premises by the police chief or any other person designated by him to make such inspection, and in the event the premises shall be deemed unsafe or a hazard to the equipment of the police and fire department of the city, the person making such inspection shall have the right to cancel such registration.
(b)
In the event of cancellation of the registration, the registration fee shall be returned to the registrant after deducting the costs of inspection.
(c)
The registration required by section 12-57 shall further provide for additional inspections at any time. If it is determined after any such inspection that there is a change of conditions in the premises making the same more hazardous to the person, power and equipment of the city, then such registration shall be cancelled.
(Code 1969, § 2-57; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-57), 1-1-1969)
Sec. 12-60. - Agreement required.
(a)
Such registrant shall also sign an agreement containing a stipulation and provision that the city shall not be liable for any damages caused by the failure of the police and fire department to answer any such fire call, when such failure to answer is caused by an order of the police chief, provided that such order is predicated upon the opinion of the chief that to answer such call would jeopardize the safety and welfare of property within the limits of the city.
(b)
Such agreement shall also contain any other provisions of this article which may be necessary in the opinion of the city attorney. Forms for such agreement shall be approved by the city attorney and shall be placed on file in the office of the police chief. The agreement shall be executed on behalf of the city by the chief, or, in his absence, by the officer next in command, and shall be executed on behalf of the registrant in person or by his duly authorized agent.
(c)
Such agreement shall also contain a provision requiring the registrant to procure and cause to be deposited forthwith in the office of the police chief a certificate of fire insurance in a company authorized to do business in the state which shall contain a clause conditioned to pay the city the sum in the amount determined from time to time by the city council in case the police and fire department is called because of a fire in, on, or exposure thereto of the insured property. The certificate of insurance shall give the name and address of the insured, shall state the coverage of the policy and the location of the property, and shall be signed by an agent of the insurance company furnishing such insurance.
(Code 1969, § 2-58; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-58), 1-1-1969; Ord. No. 7, § 1, 4-29-1969)
Sec. 12-61. - Discretion of chief.
(a)
This article shall not impair the discretion of the police chief to answer calls on account of fires at the property of citizens adjacent or near to the limits of the city, when such calls are necessary for the protection of property lying within the limits of the city.
(b)
When the provisions of this article have been complied with, the police and fire department of the city shall be authorized to answer calls within the fire protection limits of the city.
(c)
The police and fire department of the city is also permitted to answer calls to property lying and being without the boundaries of the corporate limits of the city where such property is the subject of a contract or mutual assistance pact to which the city is a signatory.
(d)
The permission granted by the provisions of this article for the police and fire department of the city to answer fire calls outside the corporate limits of the city shall not be construed as obligatory or mandatory; nor shall any person seeking protection under the provisions of this article be deemed to have any right to demand and compel the police and fire department to answer any such fire call; but whenever, in the opinion of the police chief, the use of the equipment and personnel to answer such calls would jeopardize the safety or welfare of any property within the city limits, the police and fire department may refuse and decline to answer such calls. In the absence of the chief, the person next in authority may make the decision as to answering calls.
(Code 1969, § 2-59; Ord. No. 1, § 1(2-59), 1-1-1969)
Secs. 12-62—12-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ALARM SYSTEMS

Sec. 12-81. - Findings and purpose.
The city council finds that the resources of the city, and, in particular, the police and fire department, have been unnecessarily expended in responding to false alarms caused by the inadvertence, negligence and/or omissions of users of alarm systems. The time and resources of police personnel and equipment have been unnecessarily diverted and expended in responding to burglar alarm signals in situations where, in fact, no illegal entry or other intrusion had taken place. The purpose of this article is to preserve the resources of the city, particularly the police and fire department, for situations and incidents in which those services are truly needed by residents of the city, by requiring alarm users to exercise reasonable care in the operation of their alarm systems. Toward this end, this article places a reasonable limit on the number of false alarms which may occur at any one location during the calendar year, and establishes fines for false alarms in excess of that number.
(Ord. No. 208, § 1, 8-21-2003)
Sec. 12-82. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Burglar alarm system means any mechanical or electronic device which is designed to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other activity requiring urgent attention, and to which city police are expected to respond with emergency personnel or equipment. The term "burglar alarm system" shall include automatic and manual hold-up alarm systems, burglar alarm systems of all types and designs, direct-dial telephone devices, sound-monitoring systems, audible alarms, and proprietor alarms.
False alarm means an alarm signal to which the city police respond with any emergency service personnel or equipment when a situation requiring a response by the police does not in fact exist, and which signal is caused by the inadvertence, negligence, other failure to act, or intentional act or omission of an alarm company or alarm user, or a malfunction of the alarm. The following shall not be considered false alarms:
(1)
Alarms caused by the testing, repair, or malfunction of telephone equipment or lines, provided that the owner, user or operator first gives notice to the city police and fire department prior to testing and repairing such equipment or lines.
(2)
Alarms caused by an act of God, including earthquakes, floods, windstorms, thunder or lightning.
(3)
Alarms caused by an attempted illegal entry of which there is visible evidence or which the police and fire department determines to be the result of an intrusion attempt or alarm tampering by a third party.
(4)
Alarms caused by the testing, repair, or malfunction of electrical utility equipment or lines by the electric power board.
Location means the property from which any alarm signal originates.
Owner, user, or operator of a burglar alarm system means the person in control of the premises wherein an alarm system is maintained.
(Ord. No. 208, § 2, 8-21-2003)
Sec. 12-83. - Notice of person responsible.
It shall be unlawful to operate a burglar alarm system without first giving written notice to the chief of police of the name and telephone number of two individuals who shall assume the responsibility for cutting off the alarm system when advised to do so by the police and fire department. It shall likewise be unlawful for the owner, user or operator of an alarm system not to keep such information current and correct at all times after the installation of the system.
(Ord. No. 208, § 3, 8-21-2003)
Sec. 12-84. - Limit on false alarms.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, user, or operator of a burglar alarm system to have more than four false alarms from any one location within the city during a calendar year.
(Ord. No. 208, § 4, 8-21-2003)
Sec. 12-85. - Notice of false alarms.
The chief of police or his designee shall give to each owner, user, or operator of a burglar alarm system written notice of each false alarm attributed to that person within ten days of such false alarm. Any fourth notice within a calendar year to the same person shall bear the following legend: "This is the fourth false alarm received from this location within this calendar year. Any further false alarms received from this location within this calendar year shall subject the owner, user, or operator of the alarm system to a fine as a violation of the City of Lookout Mountain's Ordinance Number 208."
(Ord. No. 208, § 5, 8-21-2003)
Sec. 12-86. - Grace period.
The provisions of section 12-84 shall not take effect as to any owner, user, or operator of a burglar alarm system for 30 days after completion of a system installation to allow for equipment failure, adjustment, subscriber education and possible environmental problems that cannot be detected prior to installation.
(Ord. No. 208, § 6, 8-21-2003)
Sec. 12-87. - Citations.
The chief of police or any police officer of the city may issue citations for violations of this article.
(Ord. No. 208, § 7, 8-21-2003)
