Chapter 28 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal street systems generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - Duty of abutting property owners to keep unpaved public property unobstructed and free of weeds.
(a)
Every owner or occupant of property in the city, abutting or adjacent to a city street shall keep the adjacent unpaved city property, easement or right-of-way for said street clean, free of any growth of weeds in excess of a height of six inches, and otherwise unobstructed, except for such obstructions as are permitted by this Code.
(b)
The city council may cause any violation of subsection (a) of this section to be corrected at the expense of said owner or occupant if the said owner or occupant fails to do so within ten days after delivery to the owner or occupant of a written notice setting forth the violation and the city's right to correct it at the expense of the owner or occupant after the expiration of ten days if the violation remains. If the owner or occupant cannot be found, the said written notice may be given by posting it in a conspicuous place on the property.
(c)
The city's expenses for correcting any violation of this article shall be a lien upon the property upon which the violation was found, and shall be enforced as are tax liens of the city.
(Ord. No. 106, §§ 1—3, 12-15-1983)
Sec. 28-2. - Obstruction of view and use of streets.
(a)
By structures, trees, shrubs, etc. No person owning, occupying or in any wise controlling property in the city shall permit any structure, tree, bush, shrub or other improvement or vegetation on such property or on the right-of-way in front thereof to so project over any street of the city or to be so located as to materially obstruct or interfere with the view and use of persons walking or riding in a vehicle on such street or of other persons or vehicles approaching from cross or intersecting streets from a distance of 50 feet or less.
(b)
Failure to remove after notice. It shall be unlawful for any person, whether the owner, tenant, agent or person controlling property in the city to fail to remove any structure, tree, bush, improvement, vegetation or other obstruction in violation of subsection (a) of this section after ten days' notice by a city official or an employee of the city's police and fire department to do so.
(Ord. No. 29, §§ 1(12-9), 1(12-10), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 28-3. - Casting water, mud, etc., on street prohibited.
No person shall erect, maintain or fail to remedy any driveway, drain, downspout, ditch or other improvement or arrangement on his property or on any right-of-way adjacent to his property that casts or causes to flow or be deposited on the right-of-way of any public street, or the property of any other person, any water, mud, gravel, leaves, chert, debris or other substances, except as permitted by state law or pursuant to valid easements, prescriptive rights or natural conditions.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-11), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 28-4. - Lighting.
(a)
Obstructions to be lighted at night.
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or leave any material or obstruction of any kind on the streets or sidewalks of the city at night without placing and keeping lit and in continuous operation thereon a sufficient number of red lights or flares or flashing lights to warn all persons before reaching such obstruction that there is danger and that the street is obstructed.
(2)
This section shall be construed to apply to all kinds and types of materials for erecting buildings and other structures, and to rails, boxes, poles, wires, bricks, mortar, planks, sand, cuts, holes, trenches, vehicles (except those vehicles properly equipped with reflectors), machinery, equipment, and any other thing that prevents the street or sidewalk from being clear and free from obstructions. All persons so obstructing the street or sidewalk, including any contractor or his employee in charge of the obstruction, shall see to it that this section is fully complied with, and that such lights or flares are placed on such obstruction at twilight each night and kept lit until daylight.
(b)
Liability for failure to light obstructions. When any person neglects to comply with subsection (a) of this section and an accident results by reason of such negligence causing damage, the person whose negligence caused the accident shall be held responsible therefor, and if the city is required to pay out any money as damages therefor, the city attorney shall prosecute the offender and bring an action against him to recover any damages that the city may have sustained by reason of his failure to comply.
(Ord. No. 29, §§ 1(12-34), 1(12-35), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 28-5. - Excavations.
(a)
No person shall make any excavation in any street or sidewalk of the city without first obtaining a permit for said excavation, and shall register in a record kept for this purpose by the city information showing the exact locality of said excavation, and the purpose for which it is made.
(b)
All persons making excavations in any street or sidewalk of the city shall be required to repair said excavations pursuant to specifications which may from time to time be developed by the city engineer and to leave the paving in as good condition as before the excavation was made. Repairs shall also be made in a manner to prevent the sinking of the pavement in the future, and excavations shall be backfilled with flowable fill, also known as controlled density fill, requiring no subsequent vibration or tamping to achieve complete consolidation. Flowable fill shall not settle or rut under loading and shall prevent the formation of dips in the pavement for a period of at least two years after the repair of an excavation. Flowable fill shall not be placed on frozen ground and shall be protected from freezing. Flowable fill is not a substitute for or interchangeable with concrete. The city engineer shall be the exclusive judge of whether any excavation has been properly repaired and the street or sidewalk left in as good condition as before the excavation was made.
(c)
No person shall be permitted to make an excavation in any street or sidewalk of the city without first agreeing to indemnify and hold harmless the city from and against all claims, demands, and causes of action arising out of any excavation by or under the direction of any said person.
(d)
No person shall be permitted to make an excavation in any street or sidewalk of the city without first providing a bond payable to the city conditioned upon the restoration of any street or sidewalk in which any excavation shall be made to the condition in which it was before such excavation. The said bond shall be in an amount estimated by the city engineer to be required to restore any street or sidewalk to be excavated to the condition in which it was before said excavation.
(e)
Any person making an excavation in any street or sidewalk of the city shall be required to repair any such street or sidewalk which becomes defective or out of repair because of said excavation having been made.
(f)
If any person fails to properly repair any excavation made in any street or sidewalk, or fails to repair any street or sidewalk which becomes defective and out of repair because of said excavation having been made, for a period of five days after having received written notice from the city to effect said repairs, the city shall be authorized to repair said excavation, and the person failing to make said repairs shall be liable for all expenses incurred by the city in doing so.
(g)
The city attorney shall prepare a permit embodying the provisions of this article, which shall be signed by all persons to whom a permit under this article is granted.
(Ord. No. 107, §§ 1—7, 5-24-1984; Ord. No. 282, § 1, 3-19-2015)
Secs. 28-6—28-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DRIVEWAYS, DITCHES, ETC.

Sec. 28-29. - Correction of improperly constructed or maintained driveways, ditches, etc.—Required after notification of defects; expense of construction, etc.
All persons owning property with driveways, ditches or other improvements or arrangements in violation of section 28-3 shall, within 15 days after being notified in writing by the city engineer or by the chief of police, or other city official, construct, alter or change any such driveway, ditch or other arrangement so that the same shall not continue in any manner to be in violation of section 28-3. All expense of making such construction, change or alteration shall be borne by the owner of the property upon which such construction, change or alteration is required.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-12), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 28-30. - Correction of improperly constructed or maintained driveways, ditches, etc.—Procedure upon failure of owner to correct defects after notice.
Upon the failure of any property owner to make the constructions, changes or alterations required by section 28-29 within 15 days from the date of the delivery of the notice described in such section, it shall then be the duty of the city engineer to forthwith cause the construction, change or alteration to be made in accordance with the requirements of this article. When such construction, change or alteration is completed, an ordinance shall be passed assessing the cost of such construction, change or alteration against the owner of the property affected thereby and asserting a lien against the property and against the owner thereof. Such lien shall date back to the time of the completion of the construction, change or alteration required.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-13), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 28-31. - Correction of improperly constructed or maintained driveways, ditches, etc.—Notice of assessment; lien created by unpaid assessments, etc.
After the adoption of the assessing ordinance provided for in section 28-30, a written statement shall be furnished by the city clerk to the owner of the property subject to the assessment herein provided for, showing the amount of such assessment and the construction, changes or alterations for which such assessment was made. Upon the failure of the owner to pay such assessment to the clerk within 30 days from the receipt of such statement, the city clerk is hereby authorized to issue execution in the name of the mayor against such owner. Such execution shall be a lien against the property from the date of the ordinance assessing the costs of the construction, change or alteration. Such execution shall bear interest at the rate of eight percent from the date on which it is issued and shall further provide for costs in the amount of $1.00 for each execution so issued. The execution, when so issued, shall be delivered to the chief of police, who shall execute the same by levy and sale of the property, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execution, together with all costs that may accrue thereon.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-14), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 28-32. - Correction of improperly constructed or maintained driveways, ditches, etc.—Law applicable to procedure; execution of deed.
The law applicable to sales under tax executions issued by the city shall apply as to the levy, notice, advertisement and sale of property made under such execution, and the city clerk shall have authority to execute deeds for the property so sold and to deliver the immediate possession thereof to the purchaser at the sale.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-15), 9-17-1970)
Sec. 28-33. - Service of notices and statements.
The notices and statements provided for in sections 28-29 through 28-32 shall be delivered personally to each owner of the property residing within the city, where possible. If such owner is a nonresident of the city, or is absent from the city, or conceals himself, it will be sufficient service that such notices or statements are mailed to such owner at his last post office address known to the city clerk. In the event the owner of the property affected by this article is not known to the city clerk, it will be sufficient to serve such notices or statements on any occupant of the property.
(Ord. No. 29, § 1(12-16), 9-17-1970)
