PART I - CHARTER
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Editor's note—The City of Reidsville, Georgia, was originally incorporated in 1832 as the Town of Reidsville, Georgia, by 1838 Ga. Laws (Unnumbered Act), p. 123. The Charter was subsequently repealed, amended and re-enacted on numerous occasions. Printed herein is the most recent Charter for the city as adopted and set forth in 1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 848), p. 3273. Amendments to this 1978 Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision derives unchanged from the 1978 Charter. Affidavits and notices of intent that accompanied the act have been omitted. A uniform system of headings, catchlines, numbering and punctuation has been used. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation and material in brackets [ ] has been added, if necessary, for clarity.
State Law reference— Home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II; creation, dissolution, merger, boundary changes, and deannexation of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-2; municipal annexations, O.C.G.A. § 36-36-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities and authority for amendment of local Charter by ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; requirement for filing and publication of charter, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-5; incorporation of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq.; terms city, town, and municipality declared synonymous, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1.
ARTICLE I. - CREATION, INCORPORATION, AND POWERS

Sec. 1.1. - Incorporation.
This Act shall constitute the whole Charter of the City of Reidsville, Georgia. The City of Reidsville, Georgia, in the County of Tattnall and the inhabitants thereof are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the same name and style of Reidsville, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity and all actions whatsoever, shall continue to be vested with all of the property and rights of property which now belong to the corporation, may contract and be contracted with, may acquire and hold property, both real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell, or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at will; and may exercise in conformity with this Charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
Sec. 1.2. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of the City of Reidsville shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this Charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The current boundaries of the City of Reidsville at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description or in any combination thereof to be retained permanently in the city office and to be designated, as the case may be: "Map and description of the corporate limits of the City of Reidsville, Georgia." Alterations in these boundaries shall be indicated by appropriate entries upon or additions to such map and description. Such entries or additions shall be made by and under the direction of the mayor and council. Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map and description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted in evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map and description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map and description. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map and description which it is designated to replace.
Sec. 1.3 - Powers.
The corporate powers of the government of the City of Reidsville, to be exercised by the governing authority, may include the following:
(1)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(2)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions, and to license and regulate such privileges, occupations, trades and professions, and to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes;
(3)
To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city, to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this Charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia, and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(4)
To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(5)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(6)
To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(7)
To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, under Section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933 [now O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], or under other applicable public acts as are or may be enacted;
(8)
To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced;
(9)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, not to exceed periods of 90 years; to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Public Service Commission;
(10)
To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon, or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city;
(11)
To grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts, and through air and water for the use of public utilities;
(12)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933 [now O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], or other applicable Public Acts, as are or may be enacted;
(13)
To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so;
(14)
To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air-conditioning codes and to regulate all housing, building, and building trades; to license all building trades, and to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures;
(15)
To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(16)
To regulate or prohibit junk dealers; pawnshops; the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors; the use and sale of firearms; and to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property;
(17)
To regulate and control the conduct of peddlers, and itinerant trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions, shows of any kind whatever, by taxation or otherwise;
(18)
To license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortune-telling or palmistry;
(19)
To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(20)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(21)
To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city: To prevent pollution in any form whether solid, liquid, gaseous or noise;
(22)
To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof;
(23)
To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may or might become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(24)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items;
(25)
To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax or fee, for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes or fees, and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(26)
To levy a fee, charge or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, construction, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of sewage disposal plant and sewerage system, and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewerage system a sewer service charge fee or sewer tax for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same;
(27)
To charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees, and to charge the same from time to time; such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewerage system;
(28)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(29)
To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(30)
To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(31)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing, for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(32)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the recorder's court shall work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains and squares in the city; or to provide for the commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(33)
To adopt ordinances and regulations for the prevention of loitering, disorderly conduct, public drunkenness and disturbing the peace in the corporate limits of the city and to prohibit the playing of lotteries therein, and to prohibit or regulate by ordinance such other conduct and activities within said city which, while not constituting an offense against the laws of this state, is deemed by the governing authority to be detrimental and offensive to the peace and good order of the city or to the welfare of the citizens thereof;
(34)
To regulate and license, or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violation of ordinance enacted hereunder;
(35)
To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys and walkways of the city;
(36)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles;
(37)
To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the city;
(38)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(39)
To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms and corporations providing for services to be furnished and payments to be made therefor;
(40)
To create, alter or abolish departments; boards, offices, commissions and agencies of the city, and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(41)
To make, ordain and establish such bylaws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof, and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the city;
(42)
To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(43)
To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen;
(44)
To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(45)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.3A. - General powers.
In addition to all other powers herein granted, the city shall be vested with any and all powers which municipal corporations are or may hereafter be authorized or required to exercise under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, as fully and completely as though such powers were specifically enumerated herein; and any and all powers which the city was heretofore authorized to exercise upon the effective date of the Charter.
Sec. 1.3B. - Construction.
The powers of the City of Reidsville shall be construed liberally and in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the city as stated in the Charter. It is the intention hereof to grant the city full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the city and all of its affairs, both now and in the future.
Sec. 1.3C. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried in the execution as provided by the Charter. If this Charter makes no provision, such powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities shall be carried in the execution as provided by ordinances of the governing authority and as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.3D. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this Charter are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the governing authority.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNING BODY

Sec. 2.1. - Creation; composition; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of the City of Reidsville, except as otherwise specifically provided for in this Charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and five councilmen, to be held as council Posts 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. The mayor and councilmen shall be elected in the manner provided by article V of this Charter.
Sec. 2.2. - Terms and qualification of office.
The members of the council shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or councilman unless he shall have been a resident of the city for a period of one year immediately prior to the date of the election of mayor or members of the council and shall continue to reside therein during his period of service, and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of the City of Reidsville, and unless he shall meet the qualification standards required for members of the Georgia House of Representatives, as are now or may in the future be prescribed by the Georgia Constitution.
Editor's note— The mayor's term is addressed in section 2.8 below.
Sec. 2.3. - Vacancy; forfeiture of office; filling of vacancies.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office or removal from office in any manner authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
Forfeiture of office. The mayor or any councilman shall forfeit his office if he:
(1)
Lacks at any time during his term of office any qualifications of the office as prescribed by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(2)
Willfully and knowingly violates any express prohibition of this Charter; or
(3)
Is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
(c)
Filling of vacancies. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilman shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in article V.
Sec. 2.4. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor shall receive as compensation for his services the amount of three hundred and seventy-five dollars per month. Councilmen shall receive two hundred dollars per month. The mayor and councilpersons shall receive the sums of two hundred dollars per month and fifty dollars per month, respectively, to defray the expenses inherent in carrying out the duties of the offices to which they were elected. Additionally, the mayor and councilpersons shall be entitled to be reimbursed for all other actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office, upon proper proof thereof.
(Ord. of 3-8-1999, § 1; Ord. of 6-15-1999, § 1)
Editor's note— Compensation for the mayor and council members may be changed from time to time by statute or ordinance.
State Law reference— O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4 grants the city council authority to establish the compensation of the mayor and councilmembers. See Code section 2-1-1.
Sec. 2.5. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Holding other office. Except as authorized by law, no member of the council shall hold any other elective city office or city employment during the term for which he was elected.
(b)
Voting when personally interested. Neither the mayor nor any other member of the council shall vote upon any question in which he has or is about to acquire a personal interest.
Sec. 2.6. - Inquiries and investigations.
The council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the council shall be punished as provided for by proper ordinance.
Sec. 2.7. - General power and authority of the council.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided by law or by this Charter, the council shall be vested with all the powers of government of the City of Reidsville, Georgia, as provided for by article I of this Charter.
(b)
In addition to all other powers conferred upon it by law, the council shall have the authority to adopt and provide for the execution of such ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter, the Constitution, and the laws of the State of Georgia, which it shall deem necessary, expedient, or helpful for the peace, good order, protection of life and property, health, welfare, sanitation, comfort, convenience, prosperity, or well-being of the inhabitants of the City of Reidsville and may enforce such ordinance or ordinances by imposing penalties for violation thereof.
(c)
The council may by ordinance create, change, alter, abolish, or consolidate offices, agencies, and departments of the city and may assign additional functions to any of the offices, agencies, and departments expressly provided for by this Charter.
Sec. 2.8. - Election of mayor; term of office; vacancy.
The mayor shall be elected by a plurality vote of the registered voters of the city voting in the election for mayor for a term of office of four years. In case of a vacancy in the office of mayor, the remaining members of the city council shall elect from their members a successor for the unexpired term.
(1979 Ga. Laws (Act No. 376), p. 4388; 2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 572), p. 3939)
Sec. 2.9. - Duties of mayor.
The mayor shall:
(a)
Preside at all meetings of the city council;
(b)
Be the official head of the city for the service of process and for ceremonial purposes;
(c)
Have power to administer oaths and to take affidavits;
(d)
Sign all written contracts entered into by the council on behalf of the city and all other contracts and instruments executed by the city which are by law required to be in writing.
Sec. 2.10. - Limitation on terms of service.
No mayor elected and qualified for two successive terms shall be eligible for the succeeding term of office.
(1990 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1041), p. 4918)
Sec. 2.11. - Mayor pro tem.
During the absence or disability of the mayor for any cause, the mayor pro tem, or in his absence or disability for any reason, any one of the councilmen chosen by the council, shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of the mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue.
Sec. 2.12. - Organization meeting.
The council shall meet for organization on the first Monday in January of each year. The meeting shall be called to order by the city clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will well and truly perform the duties of (mayor or councilman as the case may be) of the city and that I will support and defend the Charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
Following the induction of members, the council by majority vote of all the members thereof shall elect one of their number to be mayor pro tem, who shall serve for a term of two years and until his successor is elected and qualified.
Sec. 2.13. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance. The council may recess any regular meeting and continue such meeting on any weekday or hour it may fix, and may transact any business at such continued meeting as may be transacted at any regular meeting.
(b)
Special meetings of the council may be held on call of the mayor or three members of the council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, or shall be left at their residence at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called. Notice of any special meeting may be waived in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice of any special meeting. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members present. With such consent any business which may be transacted in a regular meeting may be conducted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the council shall be public.
Sec. 2.14. - Rules of procedure.
The council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this Charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be public record.
Sec. 2.15. - Quorum; voting.
Three councilmen shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be taken by voice vote and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the official minutes, but any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote. The affirmative vote of a majority of councilmen present and voting shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this Charter.
(Ord. of 9-27-1988, § 1)
Sec. 2.16. - Action requiring an ordinance.
(a)
Except as herein provided, every official action of the council which is to become law shall be by ordinance. Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Reidsville hereby ordains...."
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any member of the council and read at a regular or special meeting of the council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, ordinances, except emergency ordinances, shall not be adopted until the next regular meeting of the council following the meeting of their initial introduction. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall distribute a copy to the mayor, and to each councilman, and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the council may designate.
Sec. 2.17. - Emergency ordinances.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances, but such ordinances may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorize the borrowing of money except as provided by law. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner prescribed for ordinances generally except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three councilmen shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 30 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Sec. 2.18. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally, except that:
(1)
The requirements of section 2.18 for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and
(2)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to section 2.19.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Sec. 2.19. - Signing, authenticating, recording, codification, printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by his signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for the purpose all ordinances adopted by council. Every ordinance shall be signed by the mayor as a matter of course after adoption.
(b)
The council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto, with this Charter and any amendment thereto, and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Reidsville, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city, and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the council.
(c)
The council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this Charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and Charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price to be fixed by the council. Following publication of the first Code of the City of Reidsville, and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and Charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the Code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the Code.
ARTICLE III. - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

Sec. 3.1. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
The council, by ordinance, may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city, as they shall deem necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city. The council shall prescribe the functions and duties of existing departments, offices, and agencies or of any departments, offices and agencies hereinafter created or established; may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the function or duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city.
(b)
The operations and responsibilities of each department now or hereafter established in the city shall be distributed among such divisions or bureaus as may be provided by ordinance of the council. Each department shall consist of such officers, employees, and positions as may be provided by this Charter or by ordinance and shall be subject to the general supervision and guidance of the mayor and council.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority. Vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner as prescribed by this Charter for an original appointment.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(e)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance of the city council.
Sec. 3.2. - Boards, commissions and authorities.
(a)
All members of boards, commissions and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the council for such terms of office and such manner of appointment as provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office or manner of appointment is prescribed by the Charter or by applicable state law.
(b)
No member of any board, commission or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(c)
Any vacancy in office of any member of a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this Charter or any applicable state law.
(d)
No member of any board, commission or authority shall assume office until he shall have executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance of the council and administered by the mayor.
(e)
Any member of a board, commission or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of three members of the council.
(f)
Members of boards, commissions and authorities may receive such compensation and expenses in the performance of their official duties as prescribed by ordinance.
(g)
The qualifications required of members of boards, commissions, and authorities shall be as prescribed by ordinance.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by applicable state law, each board, commission or authority of the city government shall elect one of its members as chairman and one member as vice-chairman for terms of one year and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this Charter, ordinances of the city, or applicable state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Sec. 3.3. - City manager.
The council may appoint a city manager. The duties and authority of the city manager shall be established by ordinance of the council, and in so doing, the council may specifically delegate to the city manager any of the administrative or budgetary duties of the mayor.
Sec. 3.4. - City attorney.
The council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance or required, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the recorder's court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as city attorney.
Sec. 3.5. - City clerk.
The council shall appoint a city clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings of the city council and to maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the city, and to perform such other duties as may be required by law or as the council may direct.
Sec. 3.6. - Tax collector.
The council may appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes, licenses, fees and other monies belonging to the city subject to the provisions of this Charter and the ordinances of the city, and the tax collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all general laws of Georgia relating to the collection, sale, or foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
Sec. 3.7. - City accountant.
The council may appoint a city accountant to perform the duties of an accountant for the city.
Sec. 3.8. - Consolidation functions.
The council may consolidate any two or more positions of city clerk, city tax collector, and city accountant, or any other positions or may assign the function of any accountant, or any other positions or may assign the function of any one or more of such positions to the holder or holders of any other positions. The city manager may also, in the event a city manager has been selected with the approval of the city council, perform all or any part of the functions of any of the positions or offices in lieu of appointing other persons to perform the same.
Sec. 3.9. - Position classification and pay plans.
The mayor and council shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan for the employees of the City of Reidsville which shall be submitted to the council for approval. Said plans may apply to all employees of the City of Reidsville and of any of its agencies and offices. When a pay plan has been adopted, the council shall not increase or decrease the salaries of individual employees except by amendment of said pay plan.
Sec. 3.10. - Personnel policies.
(a)
The council shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this Charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment; and
(2)
The administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees with the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected; and
(4)
Such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of the personnel affairs of the City of Reidsville.
(b)
In addition, the mayor shall be the chief executive officer of said city. He shall supervise and enforce the personnel policies of the city.
(c)
The mayor shall be responsible for the employment of city personnel and for their discharge. All city employees under the jurisdiction of the mayor and council shall be directly and immediately subject to the mayor. The discharge of any city employee by the mayor may be disapproved and overridden by the vote of three or more members of the council.
(Ord. of xx-xx-1998, § 1)
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Sec. 4.1. - Creation.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Reidsville, Georgia, which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power and authority to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court, to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the city constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof. Said court shall be presided over by the judge of said court. In the absence or disqualification of the judge, the judge pro tem shall preside and shall exercise the same powers and duties as the judge when so acting. Should both the judge and judge pro tem become disqualified, then any member of the council may be designated to preside with the same powers and duties as the judge when so acting.
Sec. 4.2. - Judge.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as judge unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia. The judge shall be appointed by the council and shall serve at the discretion of the council. The compensation of the judge shall be fixed by the council.
(b)
The judge pro tem shall serve in the absence of the judge, shall have the same qualifications as the judge, shall be appointed by the council, and shall take the same oath as the judge.
(c)
Before entering on duties of his office, the judge shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state, that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the council.
Sec. 4.3. - Convening.
Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof.
Sec. 4.4. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish for crimes against the City of Reidsville, Georgia, and for violation of its ordinances. The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $100.00 or ten days in jail. The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 365 days or both, and as an alternative to fine or imprisonment, to sentence any offender upon conviction to labor in a work gang or on the streets, sidewalks, squares, or other public works for a period not exceeding 90 days.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the superior courts for violations of state law.
(c)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations before said court, and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time, and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a Rule Nisi, at least two days before a hearing on the Rule Nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the City of Reidsville, Georgia, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(d)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
(e)
The municipal court shall have the authority to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary or proper to the conduct of said court.
(f)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by state law.
(g)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of the City of Reidsville, Georgia, granted by state laws generally to mayors, recorders, and police courts, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances.
Editor's note— For current municipal authority to impose penalties for violations of city ordinances see the following state law provisions: maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.
Sec. 4.5. - Appeal.
The right of appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs on appeal to the Superior Court of Tattnall County from the mayor's court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the probate court, provided that any person who fails to file his appeal within ten days of the date of his conviction shall be deemed to have waived any such right. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Sec. 4.6. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the council may adopt in part or into the rules and regulations relative to the procedure of the operation of the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for said court shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 5.1. - Regular election; time for holding.
(a)
For the purpose of electing members of the city council, the City of Reidsville shall be divided into two wards as follows:
Ward 1
Beginning where Lloyd Street intersects the northeastern city limits of Reidsville; southwest along Lloyd Street to its intersection with Alexander Avenue; northwest along Alexander Avenue to Brumby Avenue; southwest along Brumby Avenue to Register Avenue; southeast along Register Avenue to Palmetto Avenue; southwest and south along Palmetto Avenue to Kemp Street; west and southwest along Kemp Street to Chandler Avenue; northwest along Chandler Avenue to Brumby Avenue; southwest along Brumby Avenue to Main Street (Georgia 23-121); south along Main Street to Coleman Street; southwest along Coleman Street to James Street; southeast along James Street to Oak Street; southwest along Oak Street to College Avenue; northwest along College Avenue to Brumby Avenue/Rewis Street; southwest along Brumby Avenue/Rewis Street to Smith Avenue; south and west along Smith Avenue to an unnamed street; southwest along this unnamed street to Leigh Circle; northwest and northeast along Leigh Circle to Smith Avenue; northwest along Smith Avenue to Tattnall Street (Georgia 147); southwest along Tattnall Street to the southwestern city limits of Reidsville; and southeast, northeast, and northwest along the city limits of Reidsville to the point of beginning.
Ward 2
Beginning where Lloyd Street intersects the northeastern city limits of Reidsville; southwest along Lloyd Street to its intersection with Alexander Avenue; northwest along Alexander Avenue to Brumby Avenue; southwest along Brumby Avenue to Register Avenue; southeast along Register Avenue to Palmetto Avenue; southwest and south along Palmetto Avenue to Kemp Street; west and southwest along Kemp Street to Chandler Avenue; northwest along Chandler Avenue to Brumby Avenue; southwest along Brumby Avenue to Main Street (Georgia 23-121); south along Main Street to Coleman Street; southwest along Coleman Street to James Street; southeast along James Street to Oak Street; southwest along Oak Street to College Avenue; northwest along College Avenue to Brumby Avenue/Rewis Street; southwest along Brumby Avenue/Rewis Street to Smith Avenue; south and west along Smith Avenue to an unnamed street; southwest along this unnamed street to Leigh Circle; northwest and northeast along Leigh Circle to Smith Avenue; northwest along Smith Avenue to Tattnall Street (Georgia 147); southwest along Tattnall Street to the southwestern city limits of Reidsville; and northwest, south, southwest, northwest, northeast, northwest, northeast, and southeast along the city limits of Reidsville to the point of beginning.
(b)
The two offices of councilmen from Ward 1 shall be designated Post 1 and Post 2 and the three offices of councilmen from Ward 2 shall be designated Post 1, Post 2, and Post 3. Any person desiring to offer as a candidate for councilman shall designate the post for which such person is announcing. Such person shall be a bona fide resident of the ward in which such post is located immediately prior to such person's official qualification as a candidate for such office and shall continue to reside therein during such councilman's period of service. Each councilman shall be elected by a majority vote of the qualified voters voting in such election and residing in the ward in which such councilman offers as a candidate.
(c)
On the first Tuesday in November, biennially, and as more particularly set forth in this section, there shall be an election for the office of three councilmen and, biennially, the office of mayor and two councilmen.
(d)
On the first Tuesday in November, 1987, and thereafter every four years, there shall be an election for the mayor and for councilman Post 1, Ward 1 and councilman Post 3, Ward 2 for a term of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. The councilman seat held by Northern Anderson on January 1, 1987, shall be designated as Post 1, Ward 1 and the councilman seat held by Billy Ryals on January 1, 1987, shall be designated as Post 3, Ward 2. On the first Tuesday in November, 1989, and thereafter every four years, there shall be an election for councilman Post 2, Ward 1; Post 1, Ward 2; and Post 2, Ward 2 for a term of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. The councilman seat held by Tommy Jordan on January 1, 1987, shall be designated as Post 2, Ward 1; the councilman seat held by Charles Balkcom on January 1, 1987, shall be designated as Post 1, Ward 2; and the councilman seat held by Spencer Youngblood on January 1, 1987, shall be designated as Post 2, Ward 2.
(e)
The terms of office of members of the council and the mayor shall begin at the day and hour of taking the oath of office as provided in article II, section 2.12 of this Charter.
(f)
The mayor and councilmen in office on January 1, 1987, shall remain in office until the expiration of the term to which they were elected and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1987 Ga. Laws. (Act No. 268), § 1, p. 4419)
Editor's note— Municipal elections are now governed by Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-1-1 et seq. Elections are held on the first Tuesday in November, rather than December.
Sec. 5.2. - Qualifying; nomination of candidates; absentee ballots.
The council may, by ordinance, prescribe rules and regulations governing qualifying fees, nomination of candidates, absentee ballots, write-in votes, challenge of votes, and such other rules and regulations as may be necessary for the conduct of election in the City of Reidsville.
(1987 Ga. Laws. (Act No. 268), § 2, p. 4419)
Sec. 5.3. - Applicability of general laws.
The procedures and requirements for elections of all elected officials of the City of Reidsville as to primary, special or general elections shall be in conformity with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code, approved April 4, 1968 (Ga. Laws 1968, p. 885), as now or hereafter amended.
Editor's note— The municipal election code no longer exists and has been replaced by the Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-1-1 et seq.
Sec. 5.4. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within 12 months of the expiration of the term of office of the mayor or any councilman, said vacancy in office shall be filled by appointment by the remaining members of the council. Both special elections and qualifications of candidates therefor shall conform to the applicable provisions of this Charter and the Georgia Municipal Election Code and Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 as now or hereafter amended.
Editor's note— The municipal election code no longer exists and has been replaced by the Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-1-1 et seq.
Sec. 5.5. - Grounds for removal.
The mayor or any councilman shall be subject to removal from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(1)
Incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(2)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(3)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this Charter or law;
(4)
Willful violation of any express prohibition of this Charter;
(5)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(6)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this Charter or by law.
Sec. 5.6. - Procedure for removal.
Removal of an elected officer from office may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
By action of two-thirds' vote of the entire membership of the council. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the council to the Superior Court of Tattnall County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(2)
By information filed in the Superior Court of Tattnall County as provided by law.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE AND FISCAL

Sec. 6.1. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1, in each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the City of Reidsville, Georgia. The council by ordinance shall elect to use the county assessment for the year in which the city taxes are to be levied and shall request the county to furnish appropriate information for such purpose.
Sec. 6.2. - Tax levy.
The council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for any other public purpose as determined by the council in its discretion. The council is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations. The City of Reidsville, Georgia, is hereby exempted from the provisions of Georgia Code Sections 92-4101 through 92-4104, inclusive.
Editor's note— The cited statutory sections, dealing with ad valorem taxation, no longer exist. Ad valorem taxation is now addressed in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 6.3. - Tax due dates and tax bills.
The council shall provide by ordinance when the taxes of the city shall fall due and in what length of time said taxes may be paid and shall provide by ordinance for the payment of taxes due to the city in installments, or in one lump sum, and when and how and upon what terms such taxes shall be due and payable, as well as to authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Sec. 6.4. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk or tax collector as provided by council and executed by any police officer of the city under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from the superior court or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property upon which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment date of each year, which lien shall be superior to all other liens, except that it shall have equal dignity with those of federal, state or county taxes. In cases of hardship, the council shall have discretionary authority to waive any and all penalties imposed by this Charter on delinquent taxes, fees, assessments or on other amounts due to the city.
Sec. 6.5. - Licenses, occupational taxes, excise taxes.
The council by ordinance shall have full power to levy such license and specific or occupation taxes upon the residents of the City of Reidsville, both individual and corporate, and on all those who transact or offer to transact business therein, or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience or advantage of the city; to classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure licenses; to compel the payment of such licenses by execution as in the same manner for delinquent taxes or any other lawful manner; and to make laws and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof. The council shall have full power and authority to levy an excise tax not prohibited by general law.
Sec. 6.6. - Sewer service charges.
The council by ordinance shall have the right, power and authority to assess and collect fees, charges and tolls for sewer services rendered both within and without the corporate limits of the City of Reidsville to provide for the cost of sewage through the sewerage facilities of said city. If unpaid, said sewer service charge shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as liens for city property taxes.
Sec. 6.7. - Sanitary and health services charge.
The council shall have authority by ordinance to provide for, to enforce, to levy and to collect the cost of sanitary and health services necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms and corporations, residing in or doing business in said city benefiting from such service. Such authority shall include the power to assess, levy and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount or amounts, and based upon and in accordance with such classification of property and sanitary service or service provided, as may be fixed by ordinance. Said sanitary taxes and the assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect to which said taxes are so assessed, and the owner or owners thereof, superior to all other liens except liens for county and city property taxes, and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
Sec. 6.8. - Special assessments.
The council shall have power and authority to assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent 30 days after their due dates, shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of ten percent and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent per annum from date due until paid. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided for in this article for city property taxes.
Sec. 6.9. - Transfer of executions.
The city clerk shall be authorized to assign or transfer any fi. fa. or execution issued for any tax or for any street, sewer or other assessment in the same manner and to the same extent as provided by Georgia law regarding sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Such transfer or assignment, when made, shall vest the purchaser or transferee with all rights, title and interest as provided by Georgia law governing sales and transfers of tax fi. fas; provided that, upon levy of execution and sale of property pursuant to such tax fi. fa., whether assigned, transferred or executed by the city, the owner of such property, in fee simple or lesser interest, shall not lose his right to redeem the property in accord with the requirements of redemption of property sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fas., as said requirements now exist or as may be hereinafter provided by law.
Sec. 6.10. - General obligation bonds.
The council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6.11. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the council as provided by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937, known as the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761) [now O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.] as now or hereafter amended, or by any other Georgia law as now or hereafter provided.
Sec. 6.12. - Short-term notes.
Pursuant to applicable state law, the city may obtain temporary loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year.
Sec. 6.13. - Preparation of budgets.
The council shall provide by ordinance the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget and a capital improvement program and a capital budget including requirements as to the scope, content and form of such budgets and programs.
Sec. 6.14. - Submission of operating budget to city council.
On or before a date fixed by the council but not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the mayor containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget and such other comments and information as he may deem pertinent. The operating budget and the capital improvements budget hereinafter provided for, the budget message and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
Sec. 6.15. - Action by council on budget.
(a)
The council may amend the operating budget proposed by the mayor except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditure required by law or by other provisions of this Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves and revenues, constituting the fund availability of such fund.
(b)
The council shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first day of January of each year. If the council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriation ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose or activity as set out in the budget document.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such item, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations, or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable.
Sec. 6.16. - Property tax levies.
As the next order of business following adoption of the operating budget, the council shall levy by ordinance an annual tax on all real and personal property within the City of Reidsville, Georgia. The tax rate set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates or revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of the City of Reidsville, Georgia.
Sec. 6.17. - Additional appropriations.
The council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budget, at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose, but any such additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies.
Sec. 6.18. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before the date fixed by city council but not later than thirty days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The council shall have power to accept with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening the lives, health or property of the inhabitants, when passed by two-thirds' vote of the membership of the council.
(b)
The council shall adopt the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first day of the first month of each year. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall elapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided the mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a vote of the council.
Sec. 6.19. - Contracting procedures.
All contracts shall be made or authorized by the council, and no contracts shall bind the city unless reduced to writing and approved by the council. All contracts and all ordinances or resolutions making contracts or authorizing the same, shall be drawn by the city attorney or shall be submitted to him before authorization by the council.
Sec. 6.20. - Centralized purchasing.
(a)
The council shall by ordinance prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the City of Reidsville, Georgia.
(b)
The council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the City of Reidsville, Georgia, for governmental or other purposes, at a public or private sale, with or without advertisement, for such consideration as it shall deem equitable and just for the city.
(c)
The council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(d)
Whenever in opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII. - MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND REGULATORY FUNCTIONS

Sec. 7.1. - Streets.
The council is hereby vested with the power to lay out, open, widen, change, straighten, alter, improve, vacate, abandon, and otherwise to exercise complete control over the streets, alleys, squares and sidewalks of the City of Reidsville, Georgia. The council shall provide for the removal of any and all obstacles and nuisances in regard to the streets, alleys or sidewalks or other public places within the city and shall adopt appropriate ordinances to accomplish this purpose.
Sec. 7.2. - Municipal utilities.
The council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, build, maintain and operate a system of waterworks, electric lights, sewerage, and gas distribution; to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered in any of said systems; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of Georgia; to exercise the power of eminent domain in regard to any of said systems both within and without the corporate limits; and to contract to furnish the services of any of said systems to consumers outside the corporate limits of the City of Reidsville, Georgia.
Sec. 7.3. - Sewers and drains.
The council shall have the power and authority to provide for the establishment, extension, and maintenance of a system of sewers and drains, together with a sewerage disposal system. This power includes the authority to extend said system beyond the corporate limits. For these purposes the city is granted the power of eminent domain both within and without its corporate limits. The council may provide by ordinance for reasonable connection fees for tapping on to the water and sewer lines of said city and may compel citizens to tap into the same when such service is made available. They may cause said connection to be made when the owners refuse and issue executions to be made for the amount so expended, which execution shall create a lien on the property connected with said water and sewerage systems from the date of the order or connection.
Sec. 7.4. - Right-of-way.
The City of Reidsville shall have the right, easement and franchise of laying the necessary mains, pipes, conduits and drains, for waterworks and sewerage system purposes along the highways in the County of Tattnall without cost; it shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules, regulations and ordinances as may be necessary to protect the water basin and watershed, from which the water supply is taken, from contamination and to protect said waterworks and sewerage system, including the mains, pipes, and conduits whether the same be situated within or without the corporate limits of said city.
Sec. 7.5. - Eminent domain.
The council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, build, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under Chapter 36-202 of the Georgia Code [now O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], subject to such amendments as shall be enacted, or any other applicable Georgia law.
Sec. 7.6. - Power to regulate and license.
The council shall have the power and authority to provide by ordinance for the registration and licensing of any trade, business, occupation, vocation, profession or any and every other undertaking pursued for the purpose of personal gain or profit of whatever nature, engaged in or carried on within the limits of the City of Reidsville, regardless whether or not the subject has an office or establishment within said city. The council shall be authorized to fix the amount, terms, and manner of issuing and revoking licenses, provided that this authority is subject to the Constitutions and laws of the United States and the State of Georgia. This power is conferred for the purpose of regulation under the police powers of the city and for the purpose of raising revenue for the operation of the city government through the imposition of a tax or fee on the privilege of operating within the city. This authority extends over individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations, and their agents, and any other legal entity capable of transacting business.
Sec. 7.7. - Franchises.
The council shall have authority to exercise control over the use of streets of the City of Reidsville. The power is hereby conferred upon the council to grant franchises for the use of said city's streets and alleys, for the purpose of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, gas companies, and transportation companies. This franchise right extends to, but is not limited to, the erection of poles, stringing of wires, laying of pipes, lines or conduits both above and below the ground surface. The council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration of such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 99 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in the registration book to be kept by him. The council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Sec. 7.8. - Building, housing, electrical, and plumbing regulations.
The council shall have the power and authority to enact such reasonable rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or expedient regarding the construction and maintenance of buildings, remodeling of buildings, plumbing, and electrical wiring and equipping of buildings, in order to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens and to guard against fire or other property damage. This power may, in the discretion of the council, be exercised by adoption of any such standard building, housing, gas, heating and air, electrical, and plumbing codes as may be deemed appropriate. The council shall be empowered to engage the necessary personnel to enforce such rules and regulations as adopted, and to charge reasonable fees of inspections and permits; and may require the obtaining of a permit as a condition precedent to any construction, building, electrical or plumbing work. The council may enact all ordinances necessary to enforce such rules and regulations.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
new
GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Section
this
Charter
1838 123 Char. (note)
1937 761 6.11
1978 848 3273 Char. (note)
1979 376 4388 2.8
1987 268 4419 1 5.1
2 5.2
1990 1041 4918 2.10
2000 572 3939 2.8
  CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
new
ORDINANCES
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Date Section Section
this
Charter
xx-xx-1998(Ord.) 1 3.10
9-27-1988(Ord.) 1 2.15
3- 8-1999(Ord.) 1 2.4
6-15-1999(Ord.) 1 2.4
