Chapter 10 - DEFENSE AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local participation in Georgia Emergency Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27 et seq.

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or other state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitations, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Code 1982, § 6-1; Ord. of 10-24-1977, § I)
Sec. 10-2. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as for a misdemeanor.
(Code 1982, § 6-6; Ord. of 10-24-1977, § VI)
Sec. 10-3. - Office of emergency management; appointment, duties of coordinator.
In agreement with the city officials, there is hereby established the city emergency management office. The council, with concurrence of other city officials, shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a coordinator of emergency management for the city. When appointed, the coordinator is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing body of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist city officials in organizing city departments, for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city departments and agencies, the city plan for emergency functions set forth in section 10-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing body and thence to the state director for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the city preparedness and disaster program including the rendering of required reports to the state office.
(5)
To render reports such as financial, daily activity, etc., as required by the governing body in keeping with good business practices.
(6)
To procure, with the authority of the governing body, a facility to be used as the city emergency operating center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the city emergency operating center staff during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of city officials.
(Code 1982, § 6-2; Ord. of 10-24-1977, § II(A—G))
Sec. 10-4. - Emergency management organization.
(a)
The city emergency management organization shall be established around existing city departments and agencies and the emergency functions listed in section 10-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Functions
Executive—City manager and city
elected officials Direction and control public information supply—Finances
Police control—Police chief and city
police department Security, movement, search, communications, warning
Fire control—Fire chief and city fire
department Fire control rescue damage assessment
Public works and engineering—Direct-
or of public works Utilities and public services restoration hazards analysis
Human resources, including: Human needs, including:
Division of family and children
services Welfare
Division of physical health Health control
Hospital services Medical and mortuary services
Ambulance services Casualty transport
Emergency assistance—Civil defense
director Shelter radar rescue assistance in industrial and institutional emergency planning
  (b)
Heads of departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the coordinator to the chairperson of the council and governing officials of the city for approval.
(Code 1982, § 6-3; Ord. of 10-24-1977, § III)
State Law reference— Authority to establish organization, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 10-5. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the chairperson of the council and the governing officials of the city may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws, and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use, or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city; to maintain a strict accounting of property and supplies distributed and for funds received for such property and supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1982, § 6-4; Ord. of 10-24-1977, § IV)
Sec. 10-6. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1982, § 6-5; Ord. of 10-24-1977, § V)
Sec. 10-7. - National Incident Management System.
The city hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under HSPD 5 and the United Command System as established under O.C.G.A. § 38-3-57 as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents and directs all incident managers and response organizations in the city to train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Ord. of 9-25-2006)
