Chapter 30 - EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Civil emergencies, ch. 26.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - 911 TELEPHONE SERVICE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 30-26. - Communications department created.
A communications department is hereby created for the county. The department shall be composed of a director and any other employees as may be necessary. Subject to the direction of the county chairman, supervision and control of the department is vested in the director.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 1-1; Ord. of 12-21-93, § 1-1)
Sec. 30-27. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
District means the corporate boundaries, including its municipalities, of the county, providing an emergency telephone number 911 system.
Emergency 911 system means a local telephone exchange service which facilitates the placing of calls by persons in need of emergency services to a public safety answering point by dialing the telephone number "911," and under which calls to the number "911" are answered by public safety answering points established and operated by the local government subscribing to the 911 service. The term "emergency 911 system" also includes enhanced 911 service, which means an emergency telephone system that provides the caller with emergency 911 system service and, in addition, directs 911 calls to appropriate public safety answering points by selective routing based on the geographical location from which the call originated and provides the capability for automatic number identification and automatic location identification features.
Exchange access facility means the access from a particular telephone subscriber's premises to the telephone system of a service supplier. Exchange access facilities include service supplier provided access lines, PBX trunks, and Centrex network access registers, all as defined by tariffs of telephone companies as approved by the state public service commission. Exchange access facilities do not include service supplier owned and operated telephone pay station lines, Wide Area Telecommunications Service (WATS), Foreign Exchange (FX), or incoming only lines.
Governing authority means the board of commissioners.
911 charge means a contribution to the local government for the 911 service start-up equipment costs, subscriber notification costs, addressing costs, billing costs, and nonrecurring and recurring installation, maintenance, service and network charges of a service supplier providing the 911 service, pursuant to this article, and costs associated with the hiring, training and compensating of dispatchers employed by the local government to operate the 911 system at the public safety answering points.
Public agency means the state, and any city, county, city and county, municipal corporation, chartered organization, public district or public authority located in whole or in part within this state, which provides or has authority to provide firefighting, law enforcement, ambulance, medical or other emergency services.
Public safety agency means a functional division of a public agency which provides firefighting, law enforcement, emergency medical, suicide prevention, civil defense, poison control, drug prevention, child abuse, spouse abuse or other emergency services.
Public safety answering point means the public safety agency which receives incoming 911 telephone calls and dispatches appropriate public safety agencies to respond to such calls.
Service supplier means a person who provides local exchange telephone service to a telephone subscriber.
Tariff rate means the rate billed by a service supplier, as stated in the service supplier's tariffs and approved by the state public service commission, that represents the service supplier's recurring charges for exchange access facilities, exclusive of all taxes, fees, licenses or similar charges whatsoever.
Telephone subscriber means a person to whom local exchange telephone service, either residential or commercial, is provided, and in return for which the person is billed on a monthly basis. When the same person, business or organization has several telephone access lines, each exchange access facility shall constitute a separate subscription.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 1-2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 30-28—30-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE DISTRICT

Sec. 30-41. - Purpose of district.
The purpose of the district established by this article is to plan, acquire, construct, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and maintain an emergency telephone number 911 system to support the district public safety agencies in the provision of emergency services and law enforcement services, resulting in the saving of life, a reduction in the destruction of property, quicker apprehension of criminals, and ultimately the saving of moneys.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 1-3)
Sec. 30-42. - Established; levy of charge.
The board of commissioners herewith establishes an emergency telephone number 911 system district and levies an emergency telephone service charge in an amount not to exceed the total district operating budget of the emergency telephone number 911 system divided by the total number of exchange access facilities within the district. Any district service charge shall have uniform application and shall be imposed throughout the entire district to the greatest extent possible in conformity with the availability of such service in any area of the district. The funds generated by the service charge shall be utilized by the county solely to defray the actual costs of the emergency telephone 911 system as those costs are defined at O.C.G.A. § 46-5-134(e). The board of commissioners may, by resolution, amend the service charge rate to an amount adequate to fund the district.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 1-4(a))
Sec. 30-43. - Amount of charge; liability for payment.
(a)
The board of commissioners may impose the emergency telephone service charge provided for in section 30-42 in an amount not to exceed $1.50 per month per exchange access facility provided to each telephone subscriber.
(b)
Every billed telephone subscriber shall be liable for any service charge imposed under this section until it has been paid to the service supplier. The duty of the service supplier to collect any such service charge shall commence upon the date of its implementation as set forth in section 30-44(a). Any such emergency telephone service charge shall be added to and stated separately in the bill by the service supplier to the service user.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 1-4(b))
Sec. 30-44. - Collection of charge.
(a)
The service charge shall be collected at the same time as the tariff rate in accordance with the regular billing practice of the service supplier. Such charge may be billed for the monthly 911 charge for up to 18 months in advance of the date on which the 911 service becomes fully operational.
(b)
The service supplier shall have no obligation to take any legal action to enforce the collection of any emergency telephone service charge. The service supplier shall provide the board of commissioners with the name and address of each telephone subscriber who has notified the service supplier in writing of such telephone subscriber's refusal to pay the emergency telephone service charge. The service supplier shall so notify the board of commissioners within 60 days of receipt of such notice by the user. A collection action may be initiated by the county, and reasonable costs and attorney's fees associated with that collection action may be awarded to the county.
(c)
Good faith compliance by the service supplier with the provisions of this section shall constitute a complete defense to any legal action or claim which may result from the service supplier's determination of nonpayment or the identification of telephone subscribers in connection therewith.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 1-4(c))
Sec. 30-45. - Remittance of funds to district; disposition of funds.
(a)
The amounts collected by the service supplier attributable to any emergency telephone service charge shall be due quarterly to the district. The amount of service charge collected in one calendar quarter by the service supplier shall be remitted to the district no later than 60 days after the close of a calendar quarter. Such amounts shall be deposited and accounted for in a separate special revenue fund maintained by the county and known as the emergency telephone system fund. The county may invest the money in the same manner as other moneys of the county may be invested, and any income earned from such investment shall be deposited into the emergency telephone system fund.
(b)
On or before the 60th day after the close of a calendar quarter, a return, in such form as may be mutually agreed to by the county and the service supplier, shall be filed with the county, together with a remittance of the amount of service charge collected payable to the district.
(c)
The service supplier shall maintain records of the amount of the service charge collected for a period of at least three years from the date of collection. The county may, at its expense, require an annual audit of the supplier's books and records with respect to the collection and remittance of the service charge.
(d)
The service supplier shall be entitled to retain as an administrative fee an amount equal to three percent of the gross receipts to be remitted to the district.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 1-4(d))
Sec. 30-46. - Acceptance of other funds.
In order to provide additional funding for the district, the county may receive federal, state, municipal or private funds, which shall be expended for the purposes of this division.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 1-4(e))
Sec. 30-47. - Tax on service charge.
The emergency telephone service charge is not subject to state and local tax.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 1-4(f))
Sec. 30-48. - Exemptions from service charge.
The service charge does not apply to exchange access facilities provided to federal, state and local governments.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 1-4(g))
Secs. 30-49—30-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - EMERGENCY 911 SYSTEM ADVISORY BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-201 et seq.

Sec. 30-61. - Creation.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-5-136, an emergency 911 system advisory board is created.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 2-1)
Sec. 30-62. - Officers.
The emergency 911 system advisory board shall be authorized to elect a chairman, a vice-chairman and a secretary from within the membership appointed by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 2-2)
Sec. 30-63. - Duties.
The emergency 911 system advisory board shall assist the county government in:
(1)
Reviewing and analyzing the progress by public safety agencies in developing 911 system requirements;
(2)
Recommending steps of action to effect the necessary coordination, regulation and development of a 911 system;
(3)
Identifying mutual aid agreements necessary to effect the 911 system;
(4)
Assisting in the promulgation of necessary rules, regulations, operating procedures, schedules and other such policies and administrative devices as shall be deemed necessary and appropriate; and
(5)
Providing other services as may be deemed appropriate by the local government.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 2-3)
Sec. 30-64. - Compensation.
The members of the advisory board shall not be compensated for their services.
(Ord. of 8-4-93(2), § 2-4)
