Chapter 50 - OFFENSES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; animals, ch. 10; civil emergencies, ch. 26; smoking in county buildings, § 34-61 et seq.; unlawful dumping, § 66-26 et seq.
State Law reference— Violation of ordinances of counties, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60; Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; authorization to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Indigent defense services.
(a)
Application.
(1)
Each person lacking the financial ability to provide, for themselves, representation in his or her defense in criminal proceedings in the Magistrate's Court and Probate Court of McDuffie County, and desiring that the county provide such services to him or her, shall submit an application to the county requesting indigent defense representation and setting for the specifies supporting their need for such indigent representation.
(2)
The application shall be submitted to the contract court administrator upon first appearance on a form approved by the governing authority of the county.
(b)
Application fee. Each applicant for indigent defense services shall pay an application fee of $50.00 to the clerk of the court in which indigent representation is being sought. Such fee must be paid either at the time the application is submitted or at the time the representation is provided.
(c)
Waiver. The fee required by subection (b) of this section may be waived only upon order of the presiding judge scheduled to hear the case in which the applicant is seeking a waiver of the application fee. The judge may order a waiver of the fee only upon a finding by the court that the defendant is unable to pay the fee or that paying the fee would cause hardship to the defendant.
(d)
Transfer of funds. Within ten days after the end of each month, the clerk(s) of the court(s) in receipt of application fees required by subsection (b) of this section shall remit the total of all application fees collected during the previous month to the governing authority of the county.
(e)
Separate account. The funds remitted to the governing authority pursuant to subsection (d) of this section, shall be maintained in a separate account for indigent defense services and shall be expended only for the purpose of providing legal representation to indigent defendants in the Magistrate's Court and Probate Court of McDuffie County.
(Ord. of 4-6-05)
Secs. 50-2—50-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISORDERLY CONDUCT

Sec. 50-36. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Incite a riot means, but is not limited to, urging or instigating other persons to riot, but shall not be deemed to mean the mere oral or written advocacy of ideas or expression of belief, not involving advocacy of acts of violence or assertion of the rightness of, or the right to commit, any such acts.
Riot means a disturbance involving:
(1)
Acts of violence by one or more persons part of an assemblage of three or more persons, which acts shall constitute a clear and present danger of, or shall result in, damage or injury to the property of any other person or to the person of any other individual; or
(2)
Threats of the commission of acts of violence by one or more persons part of an assemblage of three or more persons having, individually or collectively, the ability of immediate execution of such threats, where the performance of the threatened acts of violence would constitute a clear and present danger of, or would result in, damage or injury to the property of any other person or to the person of any other individual.
(Ord. of 8-7-91, § 1; Ord. of 11-3-99)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 50-37. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be subject to punishment as provided in section 1-13. Any such violation shall constitute a separate offense on each successive day continued.
(Ord. of 8-7-91, § 4)
Sec. 50-38. - Prohibited.
A person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if, with the purpose of causing public danger, alarm, disorder, nuisance, or if his conduct is likely to cause public danger, alarm, disorder, or nuisance, he willfully does any of the following acts:
(1)
Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another whereby that other is placed in danger of his life, limb, or health.
(2)
Commits an act in a violent and tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(3)
Causes, provokes, or engages in any fight, brawl, or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health, or property of another.
(4)
Interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of violence.
(5)
Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by the sheriff's department or other lawful authority known to be such.
(6)
Is under the influence of an intoxicating liquor or drug in such condition as to be unable to exercise care for his own safety or the safety of others.
(7)
Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by the sheriff's department or any other authorized official of the county, when known to be such an official.
(8)
Incites, attempts to incite, or is involved in attempting to incite a riot.
(9)
Addresses abusive language or threats to any member of the sheriff's department, any other authorized official of the county who is engaged in the lawful performance of his duties, or any other person when such words have a direct tendency to cause acts of violence. Words merely causing displeasure, annoyance, or resentment are not prohibitive.
(10)
Damages, defouls, or disturbs property or the property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy, or physically offensive condition.
(11)
Makes or causes to be made any loud, boisterous and unreasonable noise or disturbance to the annoyance of any other persons nearby, or near to any highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square, or common, whereby the peace is broken or disturbed, or the travelling annoyed.
(12)
Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police officer, when known to be such an official, where one or more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, and health and safety is imminently threatened.
(13)
Uses abusive or obscene language or makes an obscene gesture.
(Ord. of 8-7-91, § 2; Ord. of 11-3-99)
Sec. 50-39. - Exemptions to article.
This article shall not be construed to suppress the right to lawful assembly, picketing, public speaking, or other lawful means of expressing public opinion not in the contravention of other laws.
(Ord. of 8-7-91, § 3)
Secs. 50-40—50-50. - Reserved.
ART. III. - DEFACING PUBLIC PROPERTY

Sec. 50-51. - Generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, deface, or vandalize in any manner whatsoever any public property to include but not limited to buildings, signs, personal property, vehicles, machinery, and public grounds or to assist or conspire with any other person therefor.
(Ord. of 6-7-00)
Sec. 50-52. - Penalty.
Any person who violates any of the provisions of section 50-34 shall, upon conviction, be subject to punishment as provided in Sec. 1-13, General Penalty.
(Ord. of 6-7-00)
