Chapter 44 - LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; floods, ch. 36; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 46; subdivisions, ch. 74.

ARTICLE I. - PREAMBLE

Sec. 44-1. - Official title.
This chapter shall be known as the "McDuffie County Land Development Code."
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. I, § 1)
Sec. 44-2. - Authorization and intent.
The board of commissioners of McDuffie County, Georgia, under the authority of Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV of the 1983 State of Georgia Constitution, as amended, hereby ordains and enacts into law this official land development code for the unincorporated areas of McDuffie County. It is the intent of this chapter to advance the following general goals:
(1)
To promote the health, safety, morals, and the general welfare of the community;
(2)
To minimize traffic congestion and encourage the safe and efficient movement of people and goods through and within McDuffie County;
(3)
To prevent the overcrowding of land;
(4)
To balance public and private interests in land development so that landowners may enjoy the maximum use and retain the maximum value of their property, without abridging or impeding the rights of their neighbors to do the same;
(5)
To encourage orderly growth that is compatible with the government's ability to provide adequate transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, fire and police protection, and other public facilities;
(6)
To protect critical and sensitive natural resources from degradation due to pollution and overdevelopment;
(7)
To preserve and reinforce McDuffie County's unique and cherished character; and
(8)
To promote and implement the goals and objectives of the McDuffie County Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. I, § 2)
Sec. 44-3. - Standards governing the exercise of zoning powers.
Georgia law requires each local government that adopts a zoning ordinance to specify the standards or factors that will be considered by the government when balancing public and private land development interests in zoning decisions. The following standards governing the exercise of the zoning power are adopted in accordance with O.C.G.A § 36-66-5(b):
(1)
The existing land uses in the general area of the subject property and the zoning classification of nearby properties;
(2)
The suitability of the proposed property use(s) as to the intent authorized by this chapter;
(3)
The extent to which the value of the property in question would be diminished by the specific zoning requirements;
(4)
The extent to which the diminution of private property value is necessary to promote the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the public;
(5)
The extent to which the hardships imposed upon the individual property owner by the ordinance are balanced by the public benefits resulting from the applicable zoning requirements;
(6)
The extent to which the property in question has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned;
(7)
The length of time that the subject property has remained vacant as zoned in relation to the rate and intensity of development in the areas within the vicinity of the subject property;
(8)
Whether the requested action will promote land uses that are generally compatible with the intensity and use of land development within the vicinity of the subject property;
(9)
Whether the requested action will adversely affect the existing land use or development potential of nearby properties;
(10)
Whether the requested action conforms with the policies and intent of the McDuffie County Comprehensive Plan;
(11)
Whether the requested action will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or exhaustive burden on the capacity of existing public streets, parks and recreation facilities, solid waste disposal facilities, utilities, schools, or other essential public facilities;
(12)
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property in question which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the requested action.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. 1, § 3)
Sec. 44-4. - Application of regulations.
Unless otherwise provided by this chapter:
(1)
Use of buildings, structures, and land. No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected, moved, or altered unless in conformance with the requirements herein specified for the zoning district in which it is or is to be located. Any use not allowed as a permitted use or permitted use by special exception within the applicable zoning district shall be deemed prohibited. No more than one principal use and structure per lot shall be permitted other than multifamily structures in an R-3 district, unless approved by the board of commissioners in accordance with this chapter.
(2)
Height and intensity of use. No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or constructed that does not comply with the applicable height, intensity of use, and setback requirements contained in this chapter, unless a variance has been granted by the development code administrator, planning commission board, or board of commissioners in accordance with this chapter.
(3)
Street frontage. No building or structure shall be erected on any lot which does not have immediate frontage on at least one public street for a minimum distance as required within the applicable zoning district, unless a variance has been granted by the planning commission board, development code administrator, or the board of commissioners in accordance with this chapter. All lots having frontage on more than one street should satisfy the minimum frontage requirements along all such streets.
(4)
Yards and open spaces (sharing prohibited). No part of a yard or open space, loading space, or off-street parking space about any building or lot, required for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included as part of a yard or open space, loading space, or off-street parking space similarly required for another building or lot.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. I, § 4)
Secs. 44-5—44-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DEFINITIONS

Sec. 44-21. - General interpretation.
Except as specifically described herein, all words shall have their customary dictionary meanings. Words used in the present tense include the future tense, and words used in the future tense include the present. Words used in the singular number include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular. The word "person" includes a firm, corporation, association, organization, trust, partnership, company, or individual. The word "lot" includes "plot" or "parcel." The word "building" includes "structure." The word "may" is permissive, while the word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "should" expresses what is probable or expected. The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designated to be used or occupied." The term "zoning map" means the "Official Zoning Map of McDuffie County." The term "land use map" means the "McDuffie County Future Land Use Map" as contained in the adopted McDuffie County Comprehensive Plan. Doubt as to the precise meaning of any word used in these regulations shall be clarified by the development code administrator and/or the planning commission (board).
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. II, § 1)
Sec. 44-22. - Specific definitions.
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section:
Accessory building means a detached structure designed for the use of which is clearly incidental to and subordinate to the principal structure or use of the land, and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure or use.
Accessory use means a use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use or building.
Adult bookstore means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such materials or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed materials which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Agriculture means The raising of soil crops, livestock, fish, fowl, and commercial timber in a customary manner on tracts of land at least three acres in size, including all associated activities. Retail selling of products rained on the premises is permitted provided that space necessary for the parking of customer's vehicles is provided off of the public right-of-way.
Airport: means an area of land or water including any related buildings and structures used for the purpose of serving landing and departing aircraft, including helicopter, sailplanes, etc.
Alley means a public way dedicated to and accepted by a governing body, providing a secondary means of access to abutting properties within a block.
Alternative tower structure shall mean manmade trees, clock towers, bell steeples, light poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures.
Antenna shall mean any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio, or television communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves.
Automobile service station means any area of land, including any buildings or structures thereon, that is used to dispense motor vehicle fuels, oils, and accessories at retail, and where repair service is incidental and no storage or parking space is offered for rent.
Base flood means any flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Biomedical waste facility means any land or structure used for the final disposal, treatment, incineration, or storage of biomedical wastes as defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22, as amended, whether or not they are mixed with or include other wastes allowed under Subtitle D of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended.
Block means a series of adjoining lots or a parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys or driveways.
Board of commissioners means the board of commissioners of McDuffie County.
Boardinghouse means a building other than a hotel or motel where lodging is provided for compensation in durations of one week or more and for more than two but less than 20 persons within two or more rooms that, individually or collectively, do not constitute separate dwelling units.
Buffer means a dense planting of shrubs and trees established and maintained to a height of not less than six feet on a strip of land separating property uses from neighboring uses. Also includes areas along the course of any state waters that are required to be maintained in an undisturbed and natural condition.
Building means any structure attached to the ground and intended to provide shelter or housing for, or enclosure of persons, animals, plants, or chattels. Also, see "structure."
Building, alteration of means any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing walls, beams, columns, and girders) except such change as may be required for its safety; and addition to a building; any change in use resulting from moving a building from one location to another.
Building, height of means the vertical distance from the average elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs, and to the deck line for mansard roofs.
Building line means the line beyond which the foundation wall or any enclosed or covered porch, vestibule, or other enclosed or covered portion of a building shall not project. The building lines for a property define the area within which a building may be constructed in compliance with all applicable setbacks.
Building, principal means the primary building on a lot or a building that houses the principal use on a lot.
Building, retail means a commercial establishment that generally sells commodities or services in varying quantities to the ultimate consumer. These commodities or services are primarily for the use of the purchaser.
Business, wholesale means a commercial establishment that generally sells commodities or service in large quantities or by piece to retailers, contractors, other wholesale businesses, or manufacturing establishments. These commodities or services are mainly for resale, for use in the fabrication of a product, or for use by a retail service.
Camper means a transient, non-motorized mobile recreational residence for temporary use only containing not more than 320 square feet of floor area and not more than eight feet in width
Campground means any lot which may be rented for the temporary staging and occupation of two or more recreational vehicles or tents for a period of less than 30 consecutive days in any calendar year.
Change of use means the discontinuance of an established land use and substitution of a use of a different kind, class, or nature in compliance with these regulations. Change of use does not include a change of tenants or proprietors, unless accompanied by a change in the type of use.
Church, club, or lodge means building within which or land upon which organized religious, fraternal, recreational, social, or educational meetings are conducted on a regular, not-for-profit basis. Fraternal organizations must demonstrate that they have received recognition and sanction from a parent group or organization. A private club must demonstrate that its membership is limited by either:
(1)
The use and operation of an amateur athletic facility including, but not limited to, golf courses, tennis courts, shooting ranges, or swimming pools; or
(2)
Residency in a particular subdivision, condominium, apartment project, dormitory, or other residential development.
Clinic means a nonresidential establishment where patients are examined, diagnosed, and/or treated on an outpatient basis by licensed physicians, psychologists, psychiatrists, dentists, or chiropractors. No overnight accommodations.
Cluster development means a residential subdivision within which individual lot sizes have been reduced to permit the creation of common open space maintained by a homeowner's association for the residents of the subdivision.
Community sewer system means a privately owned sewage treatment system that complies with the minimum standards set by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Community shopping center means a shopping facility comprised of primarily retail enterprises usually housing a major chain department or variety store, or a supermarket as the principal tenant or anchor. Such a facility is intended to serve a population area of 5,000 or more. The minimum gross floor area for this type of center shall be 50,001, and the maximum gross floor area shall be 349,999.
Community water system means a privately owned water system that complies with the minimum standards set by the Environmental Protection of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Comprehensive plan means the "Joint McDuffie County, City of Thomson, City of Dearing Comprehensive Plan: 2015," as amended.
Conditional zoning means the imposition of conditions in the granting of a change in zoning classification which are in addition to, or different from, the regulations set forth in this zoning ordinance, and which are related to the promotion of the public health, safety, morals or general welfare and designed to minimize the negative impact on surrounding land uses. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, restrictions on land use, height, setbacks and other non-use requirements, physical improvements to the property and infrastructure serving the property.
Condominium means a form of individual ownership of a unit combined with joint ownership of common areas of the building and grounds in a development as provided in the Georgia Condominium Act.
Construction, actual means the commencement and continuous, uninterrupted construction for the purpose of permanent placement and fastening of materials to the land or structure for which a permit required pursuant to this chapter has been issued for the same purposes. Construction includes filling, grading, the installation of drainage facilities, and the substantial demolition, clearing, excavation, or removal of an existing structure preparatory to new construction, provided that work shall be reasonably continuous until completion of the approved construction.
Construction trailer means a manufactured home or industrialized building used by the general or subcontractor(s) for the temporary administrative use only during construction.
Convenience store means a retail store containing less than 2,000 square feet of gross floor area entirely in one story of a building that is designed and stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, sundries, and other grocery items to customers who purchase goods to satisfy special immediate needs (often characterized by impulse buying), as opposed to a "supermarket," which provides a wider range of goods which are intended to satisfy the full daily grocery needs of its customers. A convenience store is designed to attract and depends upon a large volume of stop and go traffic.
Conventional construction means a dwelling unit constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site, and which is constructed in accordance with the Standard Building Code or the Southern Building Code (SBCCI), and meeting the following development standards:
(1)
The home has a minimum width in excess of 16 feet.
(2)
The pitch of the dwelling unit's roof has a minimum vertical rise of four feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run.
(3)
Structure is placed upon and permanent masonry foundation, unbroken except for foundation vents and a foundation entry door.
(4)
A unit of construction constructed outside the boundaries of McDuffie County may not be brought into McDuffie County and used as a dwelling if such home was constructed more that five years from the date the application is requested.
Cottage industry means an accessory business use which is conducted within an "outside" accessory building of the permanent dwelling unit of the business owner. All cottage industries shall comply with the relevant standards contained in article VI, section 44-103 of these regulations. Similar to garage or shop "industries."
Day care facility means a service business operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution, or any other group which receives for pay six or more children or adults for group care, without transfer of custody, for more than four hours and less than 24 hours per day, and in which meals are served.
Developable land area means that portion of a lot which does not consist of surface waters, wetlands as delineated on the National Wetland Inventory maps for McDuffie County (prepared by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service), slopes in excess of 25 percent, areas reserved for stormwater retention or detention, special flood hazard areas (as delineated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency), or other areas dedicated for public improvements, and/or common use (Also see definition for "net density").
Development, planned means for the purpose of signage, a planned development is a development of a single parcel of property to contain a number of businesses, such as an office park, strip shopping center, industrial park, and the like. Each such business, industry, office, etc. shall occupy its own designated space wholly independent and separate from any other adjoining business, industry, office, etc.
Division (of land) means any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, or building development, involving a new street or a physical change in existing streets. This is term commonly interchanged with the term "subdivision."
Duplex. See: Dwelling, duplex below.
Dwelling means a building designed or used for permanent living quarters for one or more families.
Dwelling, duplex means a building designed for, or occupied exclusively by two families living independently and characterized by a structure with a common party/fire wall separating the two residential units.
Dwelling, multifamily means a building designed for, or occupied exclusively by, three or more families living independently.
Dwelling, single-family (detached) means a permanently sited building occupied or designed to be occupied exclusively by one family, not including dwellings defined herein as mobile homes or single-family attached dwellings.
Dwelling, single-family attached means one of a series of two or more single-family dwelling units on separate lots or in condominium ownership, which are joined at one or more points by one or more common walls or other common facilities, not including the walls of an enclosed courtyard or similar area.
Dwelling unit means a dwelling or portion thereof providing complete living facilities for one family.
Easement means a grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific purpose or purposes by the general public, or a corporation or a certain person or persons.
Embellishment(s) means a structural protrusion or addition to or from a sign face or frame generally for the purpose of adding a visual dimensional image to the sign or sign face.
Employee means any person who works in a business establishment, including the business proprietor, owner, or partner, whether paid or unpaid, full-time or part-time.
Escort bureau/introduction services means any business, agency or persons who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit, furnished or offer to furnish names of persons, or who introduce, furnish or arrange for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
FAA shall mean the Federal Aviation Administration.
Family means one or more persons occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from persons occupying a boardinghouse, lodginghouse, or hotel, as herein defined. A family may consist of not more than five individuals who are unrelated by blood, marriage, or adoption.
Farm means any plot or tract of land devoted to uses in agriculture, forestry, horticulture, or the raising of livestock, poultry, or small animals as a source of income.
FCC shall mean the Federal Communications Commission.
Flag lot means an interior lot located to the rear of another lot, but with a narrow portion or extension of the lot extending and providing access to a public right-of-way.
Flood means a general or temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
(1)
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
(2)
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
Floodplain or floodprone area means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see definition of "flood").
Floodproofing means any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures, or their contents.
Frontage means the distance along which the front boundary line of a lot coincides with a public street right-of-way.
Future land use map means the future land use map for the unincorporated areas of McDuffie County as contained in the comprehensive plan. Also referred to as the land use map.
General zoning district means a section of the unincorporated areas of McDuffie County as established by this chapter within which the zoning regulations are uniform.
Governing authority shall mean the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners.
Grandfathered towers and antennas means shall have the meaning set forth in article VI, section 44-104 of this chapter.
Gross floor area means the total area of a building measured by taking the outside dimensions of the building roofline at each floor level. The gross floor area of a building shall not be interpreted to include: attic space providing headroom for less than seven feet; unusable basement, cellar, or crawl space; uncovered steps or fire escapes; open porches, decks, or patios; accessory water or cooling towers; accessory off-street parking spaces; and accessory off-street loading berths.
Habitable floor means any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working, sleeping, eating, cooking, recreation, or a combination thereof. A floor used only for storage purposes shall not be considered a habitable floor.
Hazardous materials means any explosive, corrosive, flammable, toxic, or carcinogenic material, chemical, or substance that poses a serious threat to human health or welfare. Such substances do not include common household products and cleansers which may, by their nature, include or constitute hazardous materials, as long as they are used exclusively for their intended purpose and are not stored in quantities that are excessive for common residential use.
Hazardous waste means any material, chemical, or substance which, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may: (a) cause, or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or (b) pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed, or otherwise managed. This definition includes all solid wastes defined as "hazardous wastes" by the Board of Natural Resources under Chapter 391-3-11 of the "Rules of Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division (as amended).
Heavy industry means an existing or proposed industrial use, operation, or process which creates excessive noise, odor, smoke, or dust, or that may possess other objectionable characteristics which may be detrimental to, or incompatible with, surrounding properties and neighborhoods.
Height shall mean, when referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the tower or other structure, even if said highest point is an antenna.
Home occupation means an accessory business use conducted entirely within a minor portion of a dwelling by the occupants thereof. Home occupations shall comply with the relevant standards contained in article VI, section 44-103 of these regulations.
Hotel/motel means a building, or portion thereof, or a group of buildings, which provides sleeping accommodations in six or more separate units or rooms for transients on a daily, weekly, or similar short-term basis. Where such establishment is permitted as a primary use, all uses customarily accessory thereto for the comfort, accommodation, and entertainment of patrons, including restaurants, but not including bars, taverns, and nightclubs unless specifically permitted, shall be permitted.
Impervious surface means any area of land where the surface has been compacted to 98 percent or more, or has been covered with a layer of material (asphalt, concrete, brick, or a structure containing a solid roof, floor, pad, or foundation) that is similarly resistant to permeation by water.
Industrialized building means any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site, and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
Industrialized housing means a factory fabricated dwelling or commercial unit built in one or more sections designed to fit together on a permanent foundation but which usually does not originally have wheels for movements and which is constructed in accordance with the Georgia Industrialized Building Act and which bears the seal of approval issued by the Commissioner of Community Affairs and meeting the following standards. (Also see "modular home.")
(1)
The home has a minimum width in excess of 16 feet.
(2)
The pitch of the home's roof has a minimum vertical rise of three feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(3)
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, or aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(4)
A masonry, mortared curtain wall (skirting), unpierced except for required ventilation and access, is installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level. Such a wall must have a minimum thickness of four inches.
(5)
The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and towing apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
(6)
Landings shall be installed prior to occupancy of the requisite composition and size as per Section 312 of the "CABO (Congress of Building Officials) One and Two Family Dwelling," with said provisions being expressly incorporated by reference therein as part of this requirement.
(7)
An industrialized home, if constructed outside the boundaries of McDuffie County may be brought into McDuffie County and used as a dwelling if such home was constructed seven or less years from the date of application for permits. If constructed between eight and 12 years from the date of permit application, the industrialized home may be brought into McDuffie County provided the structure has been certified to be suitable for habitation. The requirements for certification shall be in a manner and on forms specified by the McDuffie County Planning Commission.
Junkyard means a lot, parcel of land, structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the collection, storage, and/or sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, or other salvaged materials, motorized or nonmotorized items or discarded material, or for the assembly, collecting, dismantling or storage of same, or the salvaging of machinery or motor vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts thereof.
Junked vehicle means a vehicle not in operating condition or not registered, which has been parked or stored upon the same lot or parcel for a period of 15 days or more.
Kennel means an establishment, other than an animal shelter, where dogs or cats or other domestic animals are maintained for boarding, holding, training, or similar purposes for a fee or compensation.
Land development means the division of a parcel or lot of record into two or more lots; the construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any building or other structure, or of any mining, excavation, or landfill; and any change in the use of any building or other structure or land, or extension of the use of land.
Landfill means an area of land on which or an excavation within which solid waste is placed for disposal and which is not a land application unit, surface impoundment, injection well, or compost pile.
Light industry means any industrial business or operation that does not satisfy the definition of a heavy industry contained in this chapter.
Lot means a parcel of land which satisfies the applicable area and dimensional requirements for the general zoning district within which it is located, or upon which exists a legal nonconforming use or structure and which has frontage along or legal access to a public street, and is intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for land development. A recorded lot shall have a separate tax parcel reference number designated in the office of the county tax commissioner and/or the county tax assessor.
Manufactured home, class A means a dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying that it is constructed in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home and Standards Act 42, U.S.C. 5401-5445 (i.e. constructed to the HUD Code which became effective on June 15, 1976), and meeting the following development standards:
(1)
The home has a minimum width in excess of 16 feet.
(2)
The pitch of the home's roof has a minimum vertical rise of three feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(3)
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, or aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(4)
A masonry, mortared curtain wall (skirting), unpierced except for required ventilation and access, and installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level. Such a wall must have a minimum thickness of four inches.
(5)
The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and towing apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
(6)
Landings shall be installed prior to occupancy of the requisite composition and size as per Section 312 of the "CABO (Congress of Building Officials) One and Two Family Dwelling Code," with said provisions being expressly incorporated by reference therein as part of this requirement.
(7)
An industrialized home, if constructed outside the boundaries of McDuffie County may be brought into McDuffie County and used as a dwelling if such home was constructed seven or less years from the date of application for permits. If constructed between eight and 12 years from the date of permit application, the manufactured home may be brought into McDuffie County provided the structure has been certified to be suitable for habitation. The requirements for certification shall be in a manner and on forms specified by the McDuffie County Planning Commission.
(8)
The home may not be brought in McDuffie County and used as a dwelling if such home was constructed more than five years from the date of permit application.
(9)
Manufactured homes may not be used for any other purpose or use other than the residential use originally designed and approved by HUD.
Manufactured home, class B means a dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act 42 U.S.C. 5401-5445 (i.e. constructed to the HUD Code, which become effective on June 15, 1976), but does not satisfy the criteria necessary to qualify the unit as a class A manufactured home.
(1)
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, or aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(2)
A vinyl curtain wall (skirting), unpierced except for required ventilation and access, and installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level may.
(3)
Landings shall be installed prior to occupancy, and of the requisite composition and size as per Section 312 of the "CABO (Congress of Building Officials) One and Two Family Dwelling," with said provisions being expressly incorporated by reference therein as part of this requirement.
(4)
The manufactured home must be installed in accordance with the O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-160 et seq. and 8-2-130 et seq., poured concrete footers may not be required.
(5)
Manufactured homes may not be used for any other purpose or use other than the residential use originally designed and approved by HUD.
Manufactured home, class C means any manufactured home that does not meet the definition criteria of a class A or class B manufactured home and not constructed to the HUD Code. Generally, these units were constructed prior to June 15, 1976. All manufactured homes must be installed in accordance with the O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-160 et seq. and 8-2-130 et seq. Class C manufactured homes must meet the construction standards specified in ANSI A119.1. Compliance may be determined by any of the following procedures:
(1)
For class C manufactured homes which are proposed to be located within McDuffie County, the home may be brought into McDuffie County provided the structure has been certified to be suitable for habitation. The requirements for certification shall be in a manner and on forms specified by the McDuffie County Planning Commission.
(2)
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, or aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(3)
A vinyl curtain wall (skirting), unpierced except for required ventilation and access, and installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level may be required.
(4)
Landings shall be installed prior to occupancy of the requisite composition and size as per Section 312 of the "CABO (Congress of Building Officials) One and Two Family Dwelling," with said provisions being expressly incorporated by reference therein as part of this requirement.
(5)
The manufactured homes must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-160 et seq. and §§ 8-2-130 et seq. Poured concrete footers may not be required.
(6)
Manufactured homes may not be used for any other purpose or use other than the residential use originally designed and approved by HUD.
Manufactured home park means any lot where manufactured homes are customarily parked for a longer period of time than 30 days for living or sleeping purposes, or where spaces are set aside and offered for rent for use by manufactured homes for living or sleeping purposes, including any land, building, structure, or facility used by occupants of manufactured homes on such premises. Manufactured home parks must comply with the specific requirements for such parks as delineated in article VI, section 44-102.
Minor (as applied in this chapter) means any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Modular home means a factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation resulting in a permanent structure to be used for residential purposes and which bears a seal of compliance with regulations of the Southern Building Code or the Georgia Industrialized Building Act. Such structures are generally characterized as having wood floor joists, transported to the site on a flatbed trailer, placed by crane on an unbroken perimeter foundation and perimeter footing.
Motel. See definition of "hotel."
Neighborhood shopping center means a shopping facility comprised primarily of retail and service enterprises selling or providing standard convenience goods and services. Such a facility is intended to serve immediately adjacent residential neighborhoods. The maximum gross floor area for this scale of development shall be 40,000 square feet.
Net density means an expression of a common measure indicating the ratio of the total developable land area of a proposed development project divided by the number of buildable lots or residential dwelling units. Total developable land area is the total land area of the proposed development site, less land dedicated for public improvements, areas of common use, or areas of sensitive natural resources.
Nonconforming use/structure means a structure or use of land legally existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter or at the time of a zoning amendment and which does not conform with the applicable regulations of the general zoning district in which it is located.
Nursing home means a facility which admits patients on medical referral only and for whom arrangements have been made for continuous medical supervision; it maintains patient services and facilities for receipt of skilled nursing care, rehabilitative nursing care, and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will be available for any medical and/or dental emergency and who will be responsible for the general medical and dental supervision of the home; it otherwise complies with the rules and regulations of the appropriate state department which regulates nursing homes.
O.C.G.A. means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Open space means a yard area which is not used for or occupied by a dwelling, driveway, off-street parking lot, loading space, drying yard, or refuse storage space.
Overlay zoning district means a special zoning district that is superimposed over one or more general zoning districts to create an additional set of requirements that must be satisfied by all land development activities in order to protect certain special resources.
Personal care home means a use in which domiciliary care is provided with support and supervisory personnel that provide room and board, personal care and rehabilitation services in a family environment for resident handicapped persons, who have physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities so that such person is incapable of living independently; a record of having such an impairment; or being regarded as having such an impairment. However, handicapped shall not include:
(1)
The current illegal use of, or addiction to either alcohol or controlled substance;
(2)
Any person whose residency may constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals or whose tendency would result in substantial physical damage to the property of others;
(3)
Work release facilities for convicts or ex-convicts or other housing facilities serving as an alternative to incarceration; or
(4)
Persons who are otherwise not deemed to be handicapped as that term is defined under the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C.A. § 3601 et seq.
Personal care home, congregate means a personal care home which offers care to 16 or more persons.
Personal care home, family means a personal care home in a family-type residence, noninstitutional in character and appearance, which offers care to two to six persons.
Personal care home, group means a personal care home in a residence or other type of building or buildings, noninstitutional in character, which offers care to seven to 15 persons.
Planned development means an area of land controlled by a landowner, to be developed as a single entity for a number of dwelling units, and commercial and industrial uses, if any, the plan for which does not correspond in lot size, bulk, or type of dwelling or commercial or industrial use, density lot coverage and required open space to the regulations established in any one or more districts created under this chapter. A planned development may be designated as a residential subdivision, or a planned unit development (PUD), as applicable to this chapter, and described in article VII.
Planned unit development means a planned unit development (PUD) is a type of land use planning option which is intended to provide a more flexible approach to permitting planned developments on a larger scale. Within the context of this chapter, four types of PUD options are permitted: a) cluster residential subdivisions; b) zero-side yard residential subdivisions; c) mixed use developments; and, d) planned business centers.
Planning commission means the McDuffie County Planning Commission. Generally, this term is used in the context of this chapter to reference the planning commission office and/or staff of the office. Whereas, the authoritative body empowered to make land use recommendations and decisions is generally referred to in this chapter as the planning commission board.
Planning commission board. See definition above for "planning commission."
Plat means a land survey drawing by a state certified land surveyor showing the layout of a proposed development site or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of properties and the proposed land development activities.
Principal use means a general classification of land use shown on the zoning map which is permitted by right, subject to the requirements of the applicable general zoning district.
Professional. When used in connection with "use," "office," and "occupancy," a use or occupancy by persons generally engaged in rendering personal, executive, or administrative services or activities, including but not limited to accountants, architects, engineers, land surveyors, doctors, lawyers, insurance offices, real estate offices, religious organizations, stockbrokers, and administrative agencies considered professional in character. Occupations that are considered professional in nature typically are represented by national organizations which promulgate ethical codes and standards of conduct for persons employed in that trade. These national organizations also provide a forum for exchange of ideas and may issue licenses for persons practicing the professional trade. This term does not include repairs or sales of tangible personal property stored or located on the premises or any use which would create any loud noise, noxious odors, hazardous wastes, or air emissions.
Recreational vehicle (travel trailer or RV) means a motorized vehicular portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling, containing not more than 320 square feet of floor area and not more than eight feet in width.
Regional shopping center means one or more commercial structures and associated lands designed as a unit that contains at least 350,000 net square feet of floor area or will accommodate at least 30 retail and/or service establishments, one or more of which caters to a broad consumer market and serves as a market "anchor" for the other businesses in the center. Such a facility is intended to primarily serve the residents of McDuffie County and surrounding counties.
Residential child care facility means an institution, society, agency, or facility providing full-time care for children outside of their own homes, including temporary shelters or other facilities for children and their families or portions thereof. This term shall include "child-caring institutions," as defined in the Georgia Children and Youth Act (Ga. Code 49-5-1), but shall not include foster family homes.
Riverine. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
Sign means any display or words, shapes, or images designed to convey a message to the viewer, located within or on the exterior of any dwelling, building, object or structure, or located on any lot, or upon a dedicated supporting structure, object, device, including poles, banners, windows or other devices located upon such lot.
Sign, ground means a sign that is anchored to the ground and is wholly independent of a building for support. Freestanding signs are included in this definition, as are signs on poles, frames, or other mounting structures other than buildings.
Sign, monument-style means a sign permanently constructed, not on a pole, but rather with a base dressed with brick, stone stucco, or other permanent material (excluding wood), designed to be placed at the entrance to a residential subdivision, industrial or commercial development. The sign base shall be at least two feet high, two feet thick and four feet long and shall be covered in brick, stone, stucco, or similar permanent materials (excluding wood), with the sign resting on the base.
Sign, portable means signs which are attached to vehicles, trailers, movable structures, or attached to sign structures which are not permanently anchored into the ground, or any sign which may be transported, or is designed to be transported. Such signs include, but are not limited to, "A" and "T" type, sidewalk, sandwich, trailer signs, curb-type signs, banners, or other commercial advertisements attached to vehicles and trailers. Inflatable figures and objects (e.g., creatures, beer cans) fall into the category.
Sign, public purpose and safety means a sign erected by a municipal, county, state or federal governmental agency or office in furtherance of official business, public purposes, or public safety.
Sign face: single means any advertising sign having a single face or board for advertising display. Such sign is positioned so that the display face is parallel to the public thoroughfare.
Sign face: double means any advertising sign having two separate or independent faces or boards for advertising display. Such double face signs shall have the advertising boards facing in opposite or nearly opposite directions and positioned so that the display faces are perpendicular to the public thoroughfare.
Sign, weekend means a sign permitted to be erected after 1:00 p.m. on a Friday and taken down by 11:59 p.m. the following Sunday. Such signs are subject to the regulations of this section.
Sign, window means a sign adhered to the interior or exterior of a see through window. Such sign must be supported by the window glass or window frame.
On-site means the use of an advertising structure (see above) for the display of a message, product, or service being offered at the same location as the site of the advertising structure.
Off-site means the use of an advertising structure (see above) for the display of a message, product, or service being offered not at the same location as the site of the advertising structure.
Site-built. See "Conventional construction."
Solid waste means any solid refuse materials generated by residential, commercial, industrial, or institutional uses for disposal.
Solid waste facility means any land or structure used for the long-term disposal, storage, transfer, collection, treatment, utilization, processing, incineration, or any combination thereof, of solid waste. This definition shall include inert waste landfills, private industry landfills, municipal solid waste landfills, composting facilities, medical waste or biomedical incinerators, and hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facilities.
Special exception means a use permitted upon approval by the board of commissioners; a review and recommendation by the planning commission to the board of commissioners first being necessary because the provisions of this chapter covering conditions precedent or subsequent are not precise enough to all applications without interpretation and such review and exception is provided for by this chapter. A special exception is not a variance. Rather, it is a land use that can be made compatible with a principal use under certain standards and conditions.
Street means a dedicated and accepted public right-of-way which has been improved to provide a principal means of motor vehicle access to abutting properties.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground. The term structure shall refer specifically to a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
Subdivider means any person who undertakes the division or subdivision of land as herein defined.
Subdivision means any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, or building development, involving a new street or a physical change in existing streets.
Substantial improvement means any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure either: (a) before the improvement or repair is started, or (b) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. When used in the context of the Flood Hazard Area Overlay District, substantial improvement is considered to occur when first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the structure commences, whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either: (a) any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications, which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or (b) any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
Tenant house means a single-family residential dwelling which is leased by a private farming entity for migrant, or other agricultural workers for the purpose of providing temporary housing where agricultural labor is in demand.
Tower shall mean any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, and the like.
Transmission tower means a structure situated on a site that is intended for transmitting or receiving telecommunications signals, including, but not limited to, television, radio, and telephone signals.
Travel trailer park means any lot on which are temporarily parked two or more travel trailers for a period of less than 30 days.
Variance means a request for and/or the granting of relief from any of the dimensional requirements of the land development code. Requests for variances include, but are not limited to a request for reduced setbacks, reduced road frontage, reduced minimum lot size, reduced number of parking spaces.
Variance handicapped means a request for relief from the one structure per lot requirement of this chapter as a result of the necessity to allow a second structure on a single lot due to the handicapped status of one of the residents, and the requirement of continual personal oversight and care by the occupants of the second residence.
Yard means a space on the same lot with a main building, such space being open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
Yard, front means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the main building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the right-of-way line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot. The depth of the front yard shall be measured between the front line of the building and the right-of-way line. Covered porches, whether enclosed or unenclosed, shall be considered as part of the main building and shall not project into a required front yard. On corner lots, the front yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
Yard, rear means an open space on the same lot with the main building, such space being unoccupied except possibly by an accessory building and extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building projected to the side lines of the lot. On all corner lots, the rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
Yard, side means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building, situated between the side line of the building and the adjacent side line of the lot extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard. If no front yard is required the rear boundary of the side yard shall be the rear line of the lot. On corner lots, the side yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its greatest dimension.
Zoning decision means the final legislative action by the board of commissioners which results in: (a) the adoption of a zoning ordinance; (b) the adoption of an amendment to a zoning ordinance which changes the text or map of the zoning ordinance; (c) the adoption of an amendment to a zoning ordinance which rezones property from one zoning classification to another; or, (d) the grant or denial of a special exception or variance.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. II, § 2; Mo. of 5-18-99; Ord. of 12-18-01, Art. II, § 2)
Secs. 44-23—44-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 44-31. - Established.
The McDuffie County Land Development Code hereby establishes and recognizes two distinct classes of zoning districts, known as general zoning districts and overlay zoning districts. This chapter also hereby establishes and recognizes the following classes of specific districts, each listed below:
(1)
Zoning districts:
a.
R-1: Low Density Residential/Agriculture District
b.
R-2: Medium Density Residential District
c.
R-3: High Density Residential District
d.
C-1: Neighborhood Service Commercial District
e.
C-2: General Commercial District
f.
I-1: Light and Wholesale Industrial District
g.
I-2: Heavy Industrial District
h.
T-1: Interstate Village District
(2)
Overlay districts:
a.
O-1: Flood Hazard Overlay District
b.
O-2: Usry Pond Watershed Overlay District
c.
O-3: Lake Recreational Overlay District
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 1)
Sec. 44-32. - Zoning map incorporation.
The map entitled the "Zoning Map of McDuffie County" as amended, together with all notations, references, and other information shown thereon is hereby made a part of this chapter, and may be referenced as the "zoning map." Said zoning map is hereby made a public record and shall be kept permanently in the office of the McDuffie County Planning Commission where it will be accessible to the general public. Any uncertainty or confusion regarding the exact location of the zoning district boundaries shown on the official zoning map shall be resolved in the manner prescribed in article III, section 44-53 of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 2)
Sec. 44-33. - Map amendment.
If, in accordance with provisions of these regulations, changes are made in the district boundaries or other information portrayed on the official zoning map, changes shall be made on the map after the amendment has been approved by the governing authority. A notation, certified by the development code administrator, shall be entered on the map which shall include the date of the amendment.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 3)
Sec. 44-34. - Intent of zoning districts.
In order to protect the character of existing neighborhoods, to prevent excessive density of population in areas which are not adequately served with water, sewerage facilities, and fire protection; to ensure that adequate and suitable areas will be available in the county, to provide housing for a growing population, to protect property values; to protect residential areas from the blighting effects of the traffic, noise, odors, and dust generated by commercial and industrial activity; to provide for and accommodate growth and expansion of commercial and industrial activities; to prevent blight and slums; and to promote orderly growth and development by grouping similar and related uses together and by separating dissimilar and unrelated uses; and in order that the various other purposes of this chapter may be accomplished, there are hereby established within unincorporated McDuffie County, Georgia, the above mentioned zoning districts.
It is the general intent of all zoning districts to promulgate standards that govern land development intensity or density, the provision of open spaces, height of structures, and special conditions for proposed land uses to ensure compatibility with established land uses. In addition, each zoning district shall have the specific intent and land uses principally permitted by right and by special exception, as stated below.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 4)
Sec. 44-35. - Land use review requirements.
(a)
Permitted land uses: Permitted land uses are specific types of land uses that are permitted by right within the applicable zoning district. The general classifications of permitted land uses are shown on the zoning map. The map also indicates where in the county each general and overlay zoning district is permitted. More specific guidance regarding the permitted land uses in each category are articulated in this article.
(b)
Special exceptions: Special exceptions are land uses which are subject to the imposition of land use limiting conditions which modify the land use to make it more compatible with the principally permitted uses in one or more zoning districts, but may not be appropriate generally through out the applicable district(s), due to their nature, scale, and intensity of use. The planning commission shall have greater discretion to recommend (to the board of commissioners) restrictions on land uses permitted as special exceptions as is necessary to ensure compatibility with existing neighboring uses and potential future principally permitted land uses that may be developed in the area. Approval by the board of commissioners of a special exception application shall not constitute approval of any specific development plan. Examples of special exceptions for each zoning district are articulated in this article.
Any development proposed must satisfy simultaneously the requirements of the underlying general zoning district and all applicable overlay zones, provided that the requirements of the special exception shall supersede all conflicting requirements of the underlying general zoning district and all other applicable overlay zones, unless otherwise specified within the special development standards in this article.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 5)
Sec. 44-36. - Platting required.
In order to distinguish property uses; to support the intent of establishing zoning districts; and to facilitate the administration and enforcement of the requirements of this land development code, after the date of adoption of this chapter, the platting of any proposed development (including residential) or newly created lot(s) or parcel(s) shall be required. In addition, the placement/siting of any proposed structures on the proposed platted site shall be required.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 6)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 44-3; requirements, § 44-166(1)a.
Secs. 44-37—44-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DISTRICT USES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Note— Any use not classified as a use permitted by right, an approved special exception, or, as an authorized nonconforming use shall be deemed incompatible and not permissible in accordance with this chapter. It is, however, recognized that the list of permitted and special exception uses listed within each zoning district is not comprehensive or complete. It is also recognized that the development code administrator may from time to time encounter a trade, business, or industry which is not specifically listed within any of the zoning districts, therefore, the development code administrator is authorized, after sufficient analysis and interpretation, to designate the appropriate zoning district into which the business or industry may appropriately be located.
Cross reference— Floods, ch. 36; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 46.

Sec. 44-41. - R-1: Low Density Residential District.
The intent of this district is to maintain rural development patterns by preserving agriculture and forestry as the primary uses. The district permits residential uses as a land use at standards and densities which are intended to reduce any interference of residential uses with agriculture and forestry uses. This is a district where utilities are not expected to be provided in the near future, or where intense development is anticipated as being deferred until utilities become available. General development standards for this district are found in article V.
(1)
Uses permitted by right:
a.
Single-family site built dwellings with a minimum heated floor area of 1,100 square feet.
b.
Manufactured home, class A, with a heated floor area of at least 1,100 square feet. (See definition for restrictions and requirements.)
c.
Industrialized home with a minimum heated floor area of at least 1,100 square feet. (See definition for restrictions and requirements.)
d.
Modular home with a minimum heated floor area of at least 1,100 square feet.
e.
Accessory buildings and uses when located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incident thereto.
f.
Agriculture including, forestry, horticulture, livestock (non-feed lot), poultry, and crop and garden production. No structure containing poultry or livestock and no storage of manure or odor or dust-producing substance or use shall be located within 300 feet of a property line, provided, however, any such structure existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be allowed to extend to the existing building line but no nearer the property line than any existing portion of such structure. Anyone may keep fowls for their own personal use on land less than ten acres provided all of the requirements in this section are met.
g.
Noncommercial (private) outside above ground tanks for the storage of gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, oil, or other flammable liquids or gases but not when located within 300 feet of any habitable structure. Flammable products contained therein shall be for the exclusive use of the property owner and are not for sale to the general public.
h.
Churches and related accessory buildings, provided they are located on a lot of at least five acres and fronting an arterial or collector street with any structure placed not less than 50 feet from any side or rear property line.
i.
Public utility structures (including towers) and buildings provided that the installation is properly screened. No business office shall be permitted and no equipment be stored on the site.
j.
Home occupations and cottage industries, provided the requirements in article VI, section 44-103 of this chapter are met.
k.
Duplex apartments provided they comply with the development standards for the district and shall be separated by 500 feet from any other habitable structure, including another duplex.
l.
Temporary (six months or less) sawmills, provided all equipment and structures are located 1,000 feet from any residential structure.
m.
Commercial riding stables and academics, provided that no structure, pen, or corral housing animals shall be closer than 200 feet to any property line.
n.
Shrubbery sales, greenhouses and plant nurseries (commercial).
o.
Publicly owned and operated parks or recreation areas.
p.
Local, state, or federal government buildings.
q.
Construction trailer, in conjunction with the construction of a commercial or industrial building. It may be sited for temporary use only for a term not greater than nine months without re-permitting.
r.
Campers and RV trailers, provided that use is temporary only for a period of not greater than 90 days whereupon the unit must be removed from its site for a period of not less than six months. Extensions of time are not permitted without explicit permission from the planning commission office. All trash and waste disposal must be compliant with state and local requirements.
(2)
Uses permitted by special exception:
a.
Privately owned and operated golf, swimming, tennis, or country clubs, community clubs or association, fishing and hunting clubs, athletic fields, parks, provided that no building for such purposes is located within 100 feet of any property line. Night lighting may be regulated.
b.
Kindergartens, playschools, and day care facilities.
c.
Private school and libraries.
d.
Cemeteries, provided they are located abutting a paved road and shall be screened, using plant or construction materials that must be approved by the development code administrator, and must be six feet from adjoining properties.
e.
Nursing homes, hospitals, and animal kennels.
f.
Family or group personal care homes provided local and state requirements are met.
g.
Airplane landing fields, including flight strips and helicopter ports and accessory facilities.
h.
Quarries and strip mining operations subject to the requirements of the Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968, H.B. 969, and provided that all operations are screened from the view of adjoining roads and properties.
i.
Sanitary landfills, or solid waste facilities, provided that: a) the requirements of article VI, section 44-105 of this chapter are met; and b) subject to the provisions of the Georgia Solid Waste Management Act (1990) and the rules of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources governing solid waste management.
j.
Racetracks.
k.
Handicapped residence.
l.
Agriculture: Feed lot operations.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.1))
Sec. 44-42. - R-2: Medium Density Residential District.
This district is intended to be used for single-family residential areas with medium population densities. Additional uses allowed only by special exception, include related noncommercial, recreational, religious and educational facilities normally required to provide the basic elements of a balanced and attractive residential area. These areas are intended to be defined and protected from the encroachment of uses not performing a function necessary to the residential environment, and which there is the anticipation of the future installation of public utilities within the comprehensive planning period.
(1)
Uses permitted by right:
a.
Single-family site-built dwellings with a minimum heated floor area of 1,100 square feet.
b.
Manufactured home, class A with a heated floor area of at least 1,100 square feet. (See definition for restrictions and requirements.)
c.
Industrialized home with a minimum heated floor area of at least 1,100 squire feet. (See definition for restrictions and requirements.)
d.
Modular home with a minimum heated floor area of at least 1,100 square feet.
e.
Accessory buildings and uses when located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incident thereto.
f.
Home occupations and cottage industries, provided the requirements in article VI, section 44-103 of this chapter are met.
g.
Duplex units provided there is a 300-foot separation from any other dwelling unit including other duplexes. (See article V, section 44-81(1))
h.
Churches and related accessory buildings, provided they are located on a lot fronting an arterial or collector street and are placed not less than 50 feet from any property line.
i.
Agriculture, including forestry, horticulture, crop and garden production only. Large feed lot operations are prohibited.
j.
Publicly owned and operated parks or recreation areas.
k.
Local, state, or federal government buildings.
l.
Construction trailer, in conjunction with the construction of a commercial or industrial building. May be sited for temporary use only for a term not greater than nine months without re-permitting.
(2)
Uses permitted by special exception:
a.
Privately owned and operated golf, swimming, tennis, or country clubs, community clubs or association, fishing and hunting clubs, athletic fields, parks, provided that no building for such purposes is located within 100 feet of any property line. Night lighting may be regulated.
b.
Kindergartens, playschools, and day care facilities.
c.
Private school and libraries.
d.
Cemeteries, provided they are located abutting a paved road and shall be screened, using plant or construction materials that must be approved by the development code administrator, and must be six feet from adjoining properties.
e.
Family personal care homes.
f.
Group personal care homes. (Public water and sewer required.)
g.
Handicapped residence.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.2))
Sec. 44-43. - R-3: High Density Residential District.
This is a residential and district to provide for higher population densities. The principal use is multiple-family apartment, townhouses, condominiums, duplexes, manufactured home parks, RV and camper parks, etc. Certain uses which are more compatible functionally with intense residential uses than with commercial uses are allowed only by special exception. Parcels under consideration for this designation shall have access to public utilities as prescribed under the requirements of this chapter.
(1)
Uses permitted by right:
a.
Two-family structures (duplex).
b.
Multifamily structures.
c.
Townhouses and condominiums provided that the requirements in article VII of this chapter are met.
d.
Accessory buildings and uses when located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incident thereto.
e.
Manufactured homes, class A, provided they are located within an approved manufactured home park.
f.
Manufactured homes. Class B, provided they are located within an approved manufactured home park.
g.
Manufactured homes. Class C, provided they are located within an approved manufactured home park.
h.
Bed and breakfast inns.
i.
Construction trailer, in conjunction with the construction of a multifamily structure. May be sited for temporary use only for a term not greater than nine months without re-permitting.
(2)
Uses permitted by special exception:
a.
Kindergartens, playschools, and day care facilities.
b.
Hospitals, clinics, convalescent or nursing homes, provided that the lot fronts an arterial or major collector street.
c.
Group and congregate personal care homes.
d.
Office buildings exclusively used for professional occupancy and of such character and nature that such use will not adversely affect adjacent and nearby residential properties.
e.
Private and public schools and libraries.
f.
Manufactured home, RV parks, provided that they meet the requirements of article VI, section 44-102. Variances from the requirements of section 44-102 may be granted due to the differing design requirements for an RV or camper parks.
g.
Planned developments, provided that the requirements in article VII of this chapter are met.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.3); Mo. of 5-18-99)
Sec. 44-44. - C-1: Neighborhood Service Commercial District.
The intent of this district to provide for the customary retail and service needs of a residential neighborhood and other land uses intended to serve the immediate vicinity or neighborhood as the primary service area. Required conditions are listed as follows:
(1)
All sales, business, servicing, storage, or processing shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building except where the nature of the activity makes it impossible, as for example, off-street loading, automobile parking for customers while on the premises, and the sale of automobile fuel at service stations.
(2)
Uses, processes, or equipment employed shall be limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, bright lights, smoke, noise, or vibration.
(3)
No sale of beer, wine, or liquor for consumption on the premises.
(4)
Products to be sold only at retail.
(5)
Lot must front on an arterial or collector street.
(6)
Off-street parking shall not require backing or maneuvering into the right-of-way of a public street.
a.
Uses permitted by right:
1.
Book, magazine, video and newspaper stores, provided no adult materials are offered.
2.
Candy store.
3.
Delicatessen.
4.
Drugstore or pharmacy.
5.
Fruit, nut, and/or vegetable store.
6.
Grocery stores with a gross floor area of no more than 25,000 square feet.
7.
Bakery providing goods baked on premise are sold retail only.
8.
Butcher shop or poultry/fish store providing no slaughter on premises.
9.
Convenience store.
10.
Barber shop, beauty shop, or combination thereof.
11.
Dressmaker, seamstress, tailor.
12.
Dry cleaning and/or laundry self-service facilities and pick-up station.
13.
Office for governmental, business, professional, or general purpose (but no storage of vehicles or equipment on the premises is permitted except emergency vehicles).
14.
Studio offering instruction in art, music, dancing, drama, or similar cultural activity.
15.
Secretarial and/or telephone answering service.
16.
Shoe repair shop.
17.
Church, synagogue, or other place of worship.
18.
Publicly-owned and operated building, facility, or land (but overnight storage of vehicle or equipment other than emergency vehicles on the premises is not permitted).
19.
Kindergarten, play schools, and day care centers and homes.
20.
Accessory buildings and uses when located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incident thereto, provided the requirements in article V are met.
21.
Public utility substation or other installation provided that it is adequately screened and there is neither commercial operation nor storage of vehicles or equipment on the premises.
22.
Camera or art store, providing such art is not adult-oriented material.
23.
Florist shop.
24.
Gift or curio shop or antique shop.
25.
Bicycle repair shop.
26.
Insurance agency.
27.
Jewelry and watch repair shop.
28.
Locksmith or gunsmith.
29.
Photographic studio, except those catering to adult oriented photography.
30.
Real estate agency.
31.
Hobby and toy stores.
32.
Financial institutions including loan companies.
33.
Mini-storage warehouses.
34.
Medical and dental clinics (outpatient only).
35.
Veterinary clinics. (All animals must be contained inside of building(s)).
36.
Industrialized building used as a temporary construction trailer only for the duration of the construction project.
37.
Antenna and transmission towers provided that they meet the special development standards articulated in article VI, section 44-104 of this chapter.
38.
Restaurants, grills, and lunch counters (but not including nightclubs, bars, taverns, liquor stores, drive-in restaurants, or curb-service establishments) provided no alcohol is served or sold.
39.
Repair and servicing of small equipment, provided all outside storage areas are screened from view.
b.
Uses permitted by special exception:
1.
Automobile service station, provided no automobile repair is performed and the requirements in article VI, section 44-107 of this chapter are met.
2.
Neighborhood shopping centers consisting entirely or primarily of retail convenience goods outlets provided that the following requirements are met:
(i)
Lot size shall be calculated at a rate of one acre for every 10,000 square feet of gross floor area, with a minimum lot size of 1.5 acre, and a maximum lot size of five acres.
(ii)
No anchor store shall be permitted except for a grocery store provided that the gross floor space does not exceed 25,000 square feet.
(iii)
Maximum gross floor area for the center shall be 40,000 square feet.
(iv)
Loading space shall be provided in the rear yard only in the ratio of at least ten square feet per front foot of building and shall be computed separately from the off-street parking requirement. Where an alley exists or is provided at the rear of buildings, the rear building setback and loading requirements may be computed from the center of said alley.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.4))
Sec. 44-45. - C-2: General Commercial District.
(a)
Intent; required conditions. The intent of this district shall be to provide a commercial district designed to serve the community at-large consisting of a wide variety of sales and service facilities and locations that will be accessible to all shoppers, as well as serving the motoring public. Required conditions are listed as follows:
(1)
All businesses: Servicing, storage, or processing shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building, or, within a sheltered portion principal structure where such activity is not visible from the street or adjacent properties, except where the nature of the activity makes is impossible, as, for example, off-street loading, automobile parking for customers while on the premises, miniature golf courses, and the sale of automobile fuel at service stations.
(2)
Uses, processes, and equipment employed shall be limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, bright lights, smoke, noise or vibration.
(b)
Uses permitted by right:
(1)
All principal uses permitted in C-1 District.
(2)
Amusement enterprises, such as miniature and Par-3 golf, golf driving ranges, skating rinks, coin-operated amusement centers and similar enterprises and similar uses provided that such parcel be at least 300 feet from any residential structure in a residential zoning district.
(3)
Motels and hotels.
(4)
Automobile, travel trailer, farm equipment and implements, and sales of same (new and used) which need not be enclosed, except that any mechanical or body repair must be conducted entirely within the structure.
(5)
Bus, truck, and railroad terminal facilities.
(6)
Restaurants, including drive-in establishments provided that when such a drive-in establishment abuts a residential district, it shall be separated from such district by a six-foot high buffer and having no light shining directly into residential districts.
(7)
Theaters (excluding drive-in theaters).
(8)
Bars, taverns, restaurants, and nightclubs (alcohol permitted).
(9)
Any retail business or commercial use in which there is no processing or treatment of materials, goods, or products (except for merchandise for sale on the premises, or as otherwise provided for herein), including:
a.
General farming equipment and horticulture sales.
b.
Furniture, home furnishings, office furniture, and equipment.
c.
Automobile, travel trailer, manufactured home, farm equipment and implements, and sales of same (new and used) which need not be enclosed, except that any mechanical or body repair must be conducted entirely within the structure.
d.
Produce sales and farmers market.
e.
Package liquor stores.
f.
Clothing stores.
g.
Hardware stores.
h.
Variety stores (5 and 10 cent stores).
i.
Record stores.
j.
Jewelry stores.
k.
Sporting goods.
l.
Paint stores.
m.
Pet stores.
(10)
Grocery stores, supermarkets, or department stores with a gross floor area of more than 25,000 square feet.
(11)
Golf, swimming, tennis, or country clubs, privately owned and operated community clubs, or recreational areas provided that any activity associated with such uses which generate excessive or unusual noise or light shall not be located closer than 250 feet of any residential structure in a residential zoning district.
(12)
Public utility structures and buildings. Business office shall be permitted. Equipment may be stored on the site provided the stored equipment is properly screened.
(13)
Places of assembly, including auditoriums, stadiums, coliseums, and dance halls provided that any activity associated with such uses which generates excessive or unusual noise or light shall not be located closer than 250 feet to any residential structure.
(14)
Public and private schools and libraries.
(15)
Boarding and rooming houses.
(16)
Food locker plant renting lockers for the storage of food, including sale for retail delivery, and cutting package of meats but not including slaughtering.
(17)
Printing, blueprinting, book binding, photostating, lithography, and publishing establishments.
(18)
Undertaking or mortuary establishments and ambulance services.
(19)
Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, convalescent or nursing homes.
(20)
Indoor amusement, recreational, and entertainment facilities including: bowling alleys, billiard parlors, theaters (excluding drive-in theaters), health and fitness studios.
(21)
Temporary uses including sale of Christmas trees, tents for revivals, carnivals, church bazaars, sale of seasonal fruit and vegetables from roadside stands, but such use not permitted for a period to exceed 60 days in any calendar year.
(22)
Veterinary hospital, kennel, or clinic provided any structure used for such purpose shall be a minimum of 100 feet from any residential district.
(23)
Automobile laundry or car wash provided that a paved area shall be located on the same lot for the storage of vehicles awaiting entrance to the washing process sufficient to contain a number of vehicles [at 200 square feet per vehicle] equal to one-third of the practical hourly capacity of the washing machines and in addition that curb breaks be limited to two, each not to exceed 30 feet in width, and located not closer than 20 feet to an intersection.
(24)
Appliance, television, or radio repair. The outside storage of parts and/or unused equipment shall require an opaque fence or buffer of at least six feet in height and high enough to screen such parts/equipment from public view.
(25)
Furniture repair or upholstering (but not furniture manufacturing).
(26)
The repair and assembly of electronic components, subassemblies and small systems under the following restrictions:
a.
No manufacturing of components shall be allowed;
b.
All such operations must be conducted indoors;
(27)
Building and lumber supply establishments provided that:
a.
The entire storage area is properly screened as required in article V, section 44-87 or for a height greater as required to adequately screen such area, and
b.
Any machine operations be conducted entirely within a building.
(28)
Community shopping centers provided that the following requirements are met:
a.
Lot size shall be calculated at a rate of one acre for every 10,000 square feet of gross floor area, with a minimum lot size of five acres, and a maximum lot size of 25 acres.
b.
One anchor store or principal tenant shall be permitted for every 80,000 square feet of net floor space for the entire center.
c.
Maximum net floor area for the center shall be 349,999 square feet. See article VI, section 44-101 for centers with net square feet of 350,000 plus.
(29)
Radio, telephone, or television transmission stations. All antenna and transmission towers must adhere to the special development standards articulated in article VI, section 44-104 of this chapter.
(30)
Exterminating and fumigating offices. All storage of chemicals must be contained within building.
(31)
Industrialized building used as a temporary construction trailer only for the duration of the construction project.
(32)
Personal care homes: Family, group, congregate.
(c)
Uses permitted by special exception:
(1)
Multifamily dwellings provided a minimum of four dwelling units per building and a minimum of five buildings are grouped as a single development and provided that the requirements for the R-3 Residential District are met.
(2)
Planned unit developments provided that the requirements in article VII are met.
(3)
Regional shopping centers, provided that they meet the requirements in article VI, section 44-101 of this chapter are met.
(4)
"Go-kart" type miniature auto racing tracks provided that any parcel containing any such use be at least 300 feet from any residential structure in a residential zoning district.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.5); Mo. of 5-18-99)
Sec. 44-46. - I-1: Light and Wholesale Industrial District.
The intent of this district shall be to create and protect areas for wholesale and light industrial uses and to provide general performance standards for the operation of such uses. It is further intended that no new residential uses shall be permitted in this district.
(1)
Uses permitted by right:
a.
All principal permitted uses in a C-2 General Commercial District are permitted, except that all new residential dwellings shall be prohibited and all existing dwellings shall be considered as a nonconforming use.
b.
Ice plants.
c.
Car wash provided that a paved area shall be located on the same lot for the storage of vehicles awaiting entrance to the washing process sufficient to contain a number of vehicles (at 200 square feet per vehicle) equal to one-third of the practical hourly capacity of the washing machines and in addition that curb breaks be limited to two, each not to exceed 30 feet in width, and located not closer than 20 feet to an intersection.
d.
Contractor's and agriculture machinery storage and equipment yards when located entirely within a building or fenced area as required in article V, section 44-87.
e.
Establishments for manufacture, repair, assembly or processing, and include:
1.
Confectionery manufacture.
2.
Clothing and garment manufacture, and centralized clothes cleaning plants.
3.
Laboratories for testing materials, chemicals analysis photography processing.
4.
Manufacture and assembly of scientific, optical and electronic equipment.
5.
Manufacture of musical instruments and parts.
6.
Manufacture of souvenirs and novelties.
7.
Manufacture of toy, sporting and athletic goods.
f.
Wholesale warehouses and distribution centers.
g.
Theaters (excluding drive-in).
h.
Truck stops and terminals provided that acceleration and deceleration lanes of at least 200 feet are provided for trucks entering or leaving the site; that all parking areas be paved to reduce or eliminate dust; and, that the truck traffic so generated will not create a safety hazard or unduly impede traffic movement.
i.
Trade shops including sheet metal, roofing, upholstery, electrical, plumbing, venetian blind, cabinet making and carpentry, rug and carpet cleaning and sign painting provided that all operations are conducted entirely within a building which shall not have any opening, other than stationary windows, within 100 feet of any residential district.
j.
Food processing plants, such as bakeries, meat packers, fish and poultry houses.
k.
Frozen dessert and milk processing plants.
l.
Any other establishments for the manufacture, repair, assembly, or processing of materials which are not objectionable by reason of smoke, dust, odors, bright lights, noise or vibration, or which will not contribute to the congestion of traffic.
m.
Construction companies and equipment provided that the equipment is adequately screened from view.
n.
Industrialized building used as a temporary construction trailer only for the duration of the construction project.
(2)
Uses permitted by special exception:
a.
Planned unit developments, provided that the requirements in article VII of this chapter are met.
b.
Radio or television transmission stations. All antenna and transmission towers must adhere to the special development standards articulated in article VI, section 44-104 of this chapter.
c.
Adult entertainment establishment(s), provided the provisions of the county adult entertainment establishment ordinance are met.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.6); Mo. of 5-18-99)
Sec. 44-47. - I-2: Heavy Industrial District.
The intent of this district shall be to create and protect areas for industrial use and to provide general performance standards for the operation of such uses. Special development standards are articulated in article VI, section 44-106 of this chapter. It is further intended that no new residential uses shall be permitted in this district.
(1)
Uses permitted by right:
a.
All principal permitted uses in I-1 Wholesale and Light Industrial District.
b.
Wholesale warehouses and distribution centers.
c.
Agriculture, forestry, livestock and poultry processing and/or rendering, provided that the operation is conducted on a tract of land not less than ten acres in area, and that no structure containing poultry or livestock and no storage of manure or odor or dust-producing substance or use shall be located within 300 feet of a property line.
d.
One dwelling (manufactured home permitted) for the exclusive use of a watchman or caretaker when located on the same tract as the industrial use and subject to all applicable requirements of this chapter.
e.
Manufacturing, processing, fabrication, repair and servicing of any commodity or product including the following:
1.
Manufacture of acetylene gas or storage thereof, acid, asbestos, ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine, asphalt or products thereof, cement, lime gypsum or plaster of paris, coal tar or derivatives thereof, creosote or creosote treatment, clay tile of vitrified products, emery cloth or sand paper, explosive or fireworks or storage thereof, fertilizer, glue, size or gelatin, linoleum, matches, paint, oil, shellac, turpentine or varnish, rubber and gutta percha products, soda compounds.
2.
Petroleum refining, tanning, curing, storage of hides and skins; boiler works, foundry or forge operation; incineration or processing of: fat renderings, junk, iron, rags, storage and baling, distillation of bones, coal or wood.
3.
Any use that may be obnoxious or offensive by reason of the emission of odors, dust, smoke, gas, noise or vibration.
f.
Outside aboveground tanks for the storage of gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, oil or other inflammable liquids or gases but not when located within 500 feet of any residential district.
g.
Industrialized building used as a temporary construction trailer only for the duration of the construction project.
h.
Antenna and transmission towers provided that they meet the special development standards articulated in article VI, section 44-104 of this chapter.
(2)
Uses permitted by special exception:
a.
Junk yards provided the following provisions are met:
1.
No such operation shall be permitted to locate closer than 300 feet to a residential district and no structure closer than 50 feet to any property line.
2.
All such operations shall be completely enclosed by an opaque fence or wall, having a minimum height of six feet, but in no case less than such a height as will effectively screen all operations from view.
3.
The number of vehicular driveways permitted on any single street frontage shall be limited to one per 500 feet with a maximum of a 30-foot driveway width.
b.
Adult entertainment establishment(s), provided the provision of the county adult entertainment ordinance are met.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.7); Mo. of 5-18-99)
Sec. 44-48. - T-1: Interstate Village District.
The intent of this district is to accommodate land uses which typically attract high volumes of automotive traffic coincidental to their proximity to interstate highway exchanges, and other arterial highways. This is a district where either urban utilities and infrastructure are either being provided, or are being planned. The intensity of use is such that development which does occur will not prevent or create problems for future development, and shall encourage adequate convenience, safety, access and circulation for automotive vehicles and pedestrians.
(1)
Uses permitted by right:
a.
Retail nurseries, commercial farms and greenhouses.
b.
Banks and other financial institutions.
c.
Retail stores.
d.
Wholesale businesses.
e.
Office parks or campuses.
f.
Motor vehicle sales businesses.
g.
Farm equipment and sales businesses.
h.
Automobile service stations and gas stations, provided that they meet the requirements in article VII, section 44-137 of this chapter.
i.
Professional offices.
j.
Motels and hotels.
k.
Wholesale warehouses and distribution centers including truck and freight terminals.
l.
Restaurants (alcohol permitted).
m.
Cinemas or theaters.
n.
Industrialized building used as a temporary construction trailer only for the duration of the construction project.
o.
Radio, telephone, or television transmission stations. All antenna and transmission towers must adhere to the special development standards articulated in article VI, section 44-104 of this chapter.
(2)
Uses permitted by special exception:
a.
Commercial recreational establishments (including, but not limited to bowling alleys, swimming pools, video arcades, fitness clubs, and similar uses).
b.
Light industries.
c.
Nonresidential planned unit developments, provided that the requirements of article VII of this chapter are met.
d.
Regional shopping centers provided that the requirements in article VI, section 44-101 are met.
e.
Truck stops and terminals provided that acceleration and deceleration lanes of at least 200 feet are provided for trucks entering or leaving the site; that all parking areas be paved to reduce or eliminate dust; and, that the truck traffic so generated will not create a safety hazard or unduly impede traffic movement.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.8))
Sec. 44-49. - O-1: Flood Hazard Overlay District.
The Flood Hazard Overlay District is an overlay zone and may be combined with and/or superimposed upon any other district. The intent of the district is to set forth those standards necessary to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions including, but not necessarily limited to: securing safety from flood, to prevent loss of life, to prevent property damage and all other related dangers; to promote the public health and general welfare by regulating and restricting areas in the floodplains of watercourses in the unincorporated areas of the county which are subject to periodic flooding; and, to preserve the location, character and extent of natural drainage courses. The boundaries of this district shall coincide with the areas delineated on the Flood Hazard Boundaries Map of McDuffie County prepared by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, as amended.
(1)
Uses permitted by right:
a.
All uses in the zone upon which the flood hazard overlay district has been superimposed shall be prohibited.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.8))
Sec. 44-50. - O-2: Usry Pond Watershed Overlay District.
The Usry Pond Watershed Overlay District is an overlay zone and may be combined with and/or superimposed upon any other district. The intent of this district is to protect the county's potable fresh surface water supplies from the negative effects of drought, pollution, overdraft, or mismanagement. This protection is evidenced by the adoption of the Usry Pond Watershed Protection Ordinance by the board of commissioners on February 4, 1998 which shall hereby be incorporated into this zoning ordinance by reference.
(1)
Uses permitted by right:
a.
All uses in the zone upon which the Usry Pond Watershed Overlay District has been superimposed shall be permitted subject to the development standards set forth in articles V, VI, and VII of this chapter, and the Usry Pond Watershed Protection Ordinance.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.10))
Cross reference— Watershed districts, § 86-21 et seq.
Sec. 44-51. - O-3: Lake Recreation Overlay District.
The intent of this district is to provide accessible open space opportunities for recreation and to preserve and protect the natural resources and scenic quality of areas adjacent to Clarks Hill Lake. This district permits recreational, agricultural, and residential uses as primary land uses at standards and intensities which will sustain the scenic qualities and natural resources contiguous to Clarks Hill Lake.
(1)
Uses permitted by right:
a.
All uses in the zone upon which the Lake Recreation Overlay District has been superimposed shall be permitted subject to the development standards set forth in articles V, VI, and VII as applicable, of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 7(7.11))
Sec. 44-52. - Treatment of overlay districts.
An "overlay district" is a special zoning district that is superimposed over one or more general zoning districts to create an additional set of requirements that must be satisfied by all land development activities in order to protect certain special resources. McDuffie County has established overlay districts to protect special flood hazard areas, water supply watersheds, and lake recreational areas. The boundaries for each overlay zone are identified on the zoning map. Should a question arise as to the exact boundary of any overlay zone as shown on the zoning map, the development code administrator shall refer to the original source of the boundaries as specified in article III, section 44-33 for the applicable overlay zone. Amendments to the boundaries of any overlay zone shown on the zoning map shall be approved by the board of commissioners only where changes have been made to the areas contained in the official source, or to eliminate existing overlay districts or create new overlay districts, as the case may be. Where a conflict exists between the requirements of an overlay district and the requirements of a general zoning district, the requirements of the overlay district shall govern, unless otherwise specified within the special development standards.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 8)
Sec. 44-53. - District boundary determination guidelines.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid zoning districts as shown on the official zoning map, or land use classification as shown on the future land use map, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Unless otherwise indicated, the zoning district or land use boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines, land lot lines, centerlines of streets, highways, alleys or railroads, shorelines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or civil boundaries, and they shall be construed to follow such lines.
(2)
Where zoning districts or land use boundaries are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, or railroads, or right-of-way of the same, or the centerlines of streams, reservoirs, or other bodies of water, or said lines extended, such zoning district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the zoning map or future land use map.
(3)
Where a zoning district or land use boundary line as appearing on the official zoning maps divides a lot which is under single ownership at the time of this enactment, the use classification of a larger portion may be extended to the remainder by the board of commissioners without recourse to amendment procedure.
(4)
Where a public road, street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it is reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned road, street or alley.
(5)
If the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the board of commissioners shall, upon formal written request, decide the location of the boundary.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 9)
Sec. 44-54. - Comprehensiveness of zoning districts.
The purpose of this chapter is to place all portions of McDuffie County within specific zoning districts. Should any unincorporated area of the McDuffie County appear either by reference to the maps or by interpretation to be inadvertently or otherwise omitted from a zoning district, that area or areas are hereby placed in a R-1 Low Density Residential District and are subject to all the regulations pertaining thereto until such time as the board of commissioners can determine its proper zoning district classification. If, upon further consideration, the board of commissioners determines that area or areas should be reclassified, such change shall be accomplished through the appropriate amendment procedures specified in this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 10)
Sec. 44-55. - Speculative rezonings/reversion.
McDuffie County discourages the use of rezonings as a strategy to increase speculative land value where the applicant has no immediate intent to develop in accordance with the rezoning. Rezonings are intended to grant the applicant an opportunity to exercise appropriate alternative development options in situations where development in compliance with existing zoning is not possible or practicable, as long as the proposed uses are consistent with the comprehensive plan and the character of the surrounding area. The granting of this privilege by the county carries with it the expectation that the proposed development will occur within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, when the board of commissioners grants approval of a rezoning, the applicant should acquire a construction permit or final plat approval (whichever is applicable) and commence construction activities in compliance with that permit or approval within one year of the date upon which the rezoning is approved. Reversion: If such actions have not been taken within one year, the planning commission may initiate actions to further rezone the subject property and/or to reinstate the original zoning classification.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. III, § 11)
Secs. 44-56—44-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - LAND USE DETERMINATION GUIDELINES

Sec. 44-71. - Incorporation of future land use map.
The map entitled "McDuffie County, Georgia Future Land Use Map" prepared in 1992 and contained in the Joint McDuffie County, City of Thomson, City of Dearing Comprehensive Plan: 2015, as amended, together with all notations, references, and other information shown thereon is hereby made a part of this chapter, and may be referenced as the future land use map. Said future land use map is hereby made a public record and shall be kept permanently in the office of the development code administrator, where it will be accessible to the general public. Any uncertainty or confusion regarding the exact location of the land use classification boundaries shown on the future land use map shall be resolved in the manner prescribed in article III, section 44-53 of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. IV, § 1)
Sec. 44-72. - Land use compatibility guidelines.
McDuffie County is a rural community that is characterized by a broad mix of land uses. The county wishes to encourage continuation of this general development pattern. However, the county acknowledges that land uses can generate conflicts with neighboring uses, when significant differences in development intensity occur in close proximity. This chapter seeks to minimize potential development intensity conflicts through the use of quantitative performance standards. However, the county further seeks to minimize potential land use conflicts through the application of general land use compatibility guidelines. These guidelines shall be applied to all principally permitted land uses and those land uses permitted by special exception to identify the need for special development conditions over and beyond the protections provided by the required conditions, along with the development intensity and dimensional standards for the applicable zoning district. The board of commissioners shall have discretion to impose zoning conditions which are related to the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare and designed to minimize the negative impact on surrounding lands. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, restrictions on land use, height, setbacks and other non-use requirements, physical improvements to the property and infrastructure serving the property. Where the development code administrator feels that, during administrative review, impact mitigation options specified in this section should be applied to a proposed use, the development code administrator may recommend to the planning commission board any mitigation requirements to be applied. Such recommendations by the planning commission board shall be forwarded to the board of commissioners where, upon review of the proposed mitigation requirements, they may change or alter the conditions of approval as they deem necessary to satisfy the intent of this section.
(1)
Unmitigable land use conflicts. McDuffie County recognizes that some potential conflicts between land uses can be so extreme as to make any mitigation measures infeasible or overly burdensome on the development applicant. Such situations should be avoided. As a result, the following uses shall not be approved when the proposed development lot abuts a lot currently used or designated on the future land use map as appropriate for the stated protected use(s).
a.
No heavy industry use shall be allowed on a lot that abuts an existing or planned residential development.
b.
No solid waste facility shall be allowed on a lot that abuts an existing or proposed residential development.
c.
No airport shall be allowed on a lot that abuts a lot committed to any residential or commercial development, or the I-2 Heavy Industrial District.
(2)
Buffers. Buffers may be required where more intensive or concentrated land uses abut less intensive or concentrated land uses. Buffers shall be required for any proposed commercial or industrial use that abuts an existing or planned residential use. Buffers shall be required for any multifamily residential uses that abut an existing or planned single-family residential use. Buffers may be required for any residential development consisting of five or more lots or units that abuts a commercial farm operation or lands that are being cultivated to produce crops or fruits. Buffers also may be required for any development which possesses or abuts sensitive natural resources such as those specified in article V, section 44-83 of this chapter. Basic requirements for all buffers are specified in article V, section 44-87 of this chapter. The development code administrator or planning commission board, or the board of commissioners may require the applicant to install a solid fence at least six feet in height within a required buffer if necessary to provide protective screening.
(3)
Hours of operation. Where a proposed business use will generate traffic levels that may be considered excessive in a predominantly residential area, the development code administrator, planning commission board, or the board of commissioners may limit the hours of operation of the business to prevent undue traffic noise impacts during the hours between 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. The planning commission may further impose restrictions on business operation during the weekends, especially for authorized uses by special exception.
(4)
Glare. Some land uses, especially those providing lighted parking lots and lighted signs, can generate excessive glare on neighboring properties. The development code administrator or planning commission board, or the board of commissioners may impose special requirements for shielding or fencing (up to six feet in height) as is warranted to protect neighboring properties from excessive glare.
(5)
Noise. Certain commercial and industrial uses can generate noises that may be considered excessive by neighboring uses. Noises can be irritating or conflicting in terms of pitch, frequency, volume, duration of exposure, random breaks between intervals of noise, or some combination of these factors. The development code administrator, planning commission board, or the board of commissioners may increase setback requirements up to three times the minimum required, or require sound walls or earth berms not to exceed eight feet in height as may be reasonable or necessary to minimize potential noise impacts beyond the property of the proposed noise-generating use. Such requirements shall not be applied to proposed agricultural uses.
(6)
Traffic. When a newly developed land use generates substantial increases in traffic on an adjoining street, the resulting impacts on nearby single-family residential uses can be great. If reasonable concerns about traffic generation on the proposed property exist, the development code administrator, planning commission board, or the board of commissioners may require the applicant, at the applicant's own cost, to demonstrate through an appropriate and rational analysis using acceptable traffic engineering standards, that the proposed use would not significantly increase traffic congestion, or reduce traffic safety. If the proposed use would generate a total average weekday (or weekend for churches) daily traffic volume that would increase by 50 percent or more the average daily traffic volume on the adjoining street or streets (as estimated by the department of transportation for the current year) from which access to the property will be provided, then the development code administrator, planning commission board, or the board of commissioners may consider the following mitigation measures.
a.
Developing a phasing schedule that would ensure that potential traffic volume increases would not cumulatively exceed 50 percent in any five-year period.
b.
Providing access to the property from another neighboring street, thereby distributing potential traffic impacts to other streets.
c.
Requiring smaller structures for nonresidential uses or reducing the total number of lots allowed to mitigate excessive traffic increases.
(7)
Large paved areas. When a major commercial or industrial use requires a large paved parking lot (more than 100 parking spaces or one acre in area, whichever is less), the combined effect of impervious surfaces on stormwater runoff and groundwater recharge can be significant. In order to mitigate any such impacts to the natural environment, the development code administrator, planning commission, or the board of commissioners may require an applicant to provide unpaved vegetated islands or reserved strips to be integrated within the proposed parking area not to exceed 15 percent of the gross lot area covered by paved surfaces.
(8)
Special studies. Where an unresolved dispute arises between an applicant and the development code administrator, the planning commission board, or the board of commissioners regarding the appropriateness or necessity of any impact mitigation measures contained in this section, a special study may be required to resolve the conflict and determine the appropriateness or necessity of the required impact mitigation measure. Such special study shall be prepared by a qualified consultant selected by agreement between the aforementioned local officials, as applicable, and the applicant. The cost for any needed study shall be borne solely by the applicant, unless special circumstances warrant discretion by the county whereby costs should be shared between the applicant and the county.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. IV, § 2)
Secs. 44-73—44-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Sec. 44-81. - Development intensity standards.
Development intensity standards are established to determine an appropriate carrying capacity for a designated land use for all general zoning districts and overlay zones. Except where special development standards or planned development standards for certain land uses apply in article VI, these standards shall apply to principally permitted uses within their appropriate zoning district.
(1)
Net density:
EXPAND
Minimum Lot Size (Acres)
R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 T-1
W/o sewer 1 1 n/a* 1 1 2 n/a* 2
W/ sewer 1 0.5 0.33 1 0.5 1 1 1
  *Sewer required
Note: All lot sizes indicated above shall be comprised of developable land.
EXPAND
Maximum Residential Dwelling Units/Lot
Single-Family
R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 T-1
W/o sewer 1 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
W/ sewer 1 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Duplex Unit**
R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 T-1
W/o sewer 1 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
W/ sewer 1 1 6 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Multi-Unit
R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 T-1
W/o sewer n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
W/ sewer n/a n/a 8 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
  **See definition of "dwelling unit." For clarity, a duplex has two dwelling units, therefore; in the R-1 district, two acres would be required.
(2)
Minimum per unit heated floor area/square feet (residential uses only):
EXPAND
R-1 R-2 R-3 All Other
Districts
Single-family: Site built 1100 1100 n/a n/a
Multifamily: Apts., condo's, etc. n/a n/a 950/unit n/a
Manufactured homes 1100 1100 n/a* n/a
Multifamily: Duplexes 950/unit 950/unit 950/unit n/a
  *Note: Manufactured homes located in R-3 manufactured/mobile home parks are not regulated by size.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. V, § 1; Mo. of 5-18-99)
Sec. 44-82. - Basic dimensional standards.
Basic dimensional standards are established to minimize the extent to which a development can impact neighboring properties. Several dimensional measures shall be applied in this section including impervious surface ratios (expressed as the percentage of a development site or lot which may contain impervious surfaces), and area requirements including restrictions of frontage, height, and a variety of setbacks. Basic dimensional standards are established for all general zoning districts and overlay zones. Except where natural resource development standards for certain land uses apply and, where special development standards or planned development standards for certain land uses apply in article VI and article VII respectively, these standards shall apply to both permitted uses and uses by special exception. All setback and frontage requirements shall be measured in feet from or along the applicable road right-of-way or property line, whichever is appropriate.
(1)
Maximum impervious surface ratios (multiply ratio by gross lot area to calculate the maximum lot area that may be covered by impervious surfaces):
EXPAND
District R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 T-1
General n/a n/a .70 .70 .80 .80 .80 .80
Lake overlay n/a n/a .60 .50 .50 .50 .50 n/a
Usry overlay .25 .25 .25 .25 .25 .25 .25 n/a
  (2)
Minimum road frontage*
EXPAND
District R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 T-1
General 150 100 80 125 100 125 100 100
All overlay 150 100 100 150 125 150 — —
  *Footage width along a publicly maintained right-of-way.
Note: (flag lots) The planning commission may permit a reduction in minimum frontage to not less than 30 feet for flag lots fronting exclusively on a county road dead-end, or on a cul-de-sac in an interior residential subdivision. Flag lots shall otherwise be prohibited except in those two situations.
Note: Crossover easements prohibited. To conform to the minimum requirements for road frontage referenced above, crossover easements shall be prohibited. (Also see article VII, section 44-139(c))
(3)
Minimum side and rear setback (principal structure in feet):
(Buffers may supersede setbacks see section 44-87 of this article)
EXPAND
District R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 T-1
General 30 25 15 30 30 35 40 30
All overlay 35 30 20 35 35 40 — —
  Note: A 15-foot fire separation is required between all structures.
(4)
Minimum side and rear setback (accessory structure in feet):
(Buffers may supersede setbacks see section 44-87 of this article)
EXPAND
District R-1* R-2* R-3 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 T-1
General 10 10 10 20 20 20 25 20
All overlay 15 15 15 25 25 25 — —
  *In these districts a five-foot side and rear setback is allowed for accessory structures under 400 square feet (cottage industries and home occupations excluded).
(5)
Minimum front setback from centerline of road (all structures in feet):
EXPAND
District R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 I-1 I-2 T-1
General 100 100 85 80 80 90 75 80
All overlay 100 100 90 90 90 90 — —
State hwy. 125 125 125 125 125 125 125 125
  (6)
Moving permit requirements manufactured homes. Effective upon the date of adoption of this chapter it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person(s), corporation, or entity to move or cause to be moved any manufactured home or industrialized building into or within McDuffie County without first having obtained a manufactured home moving permit from the office of the McDuffie County Planning Commission. Prior to the issuance of a moving permit, the mover shall show evidence of compliance with the provisions of Title 48, Chapter 5, Article 10 of the O.C.G.A. The planning commission office shall upon the payment of the permit fee, as set by the board of commissioners, issue to the permittee a transport decal to be affixed at all times to the manufactured home while it is being transported.
(7)
Height requirements. No structure shall be constructed, reconstructed, or altered in any way that would cause it to exceed 35 feet in height as measured from the lowest ground elevation at the base of the structure to the tallest point of the structure. Exemptions and modifications to these requirements may be authorized by the development code administrator, planning commission, or the board of commissioners, however, exceptions shall only be made where, by reason of exceptional topographic condition or other extraordinary or exceptional conditions of a piece of property, the strict application of this requirement would result in practical difficulties to, or undue hardship on, the owner of the property, provided that relief may be granted without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter.
Exemptions:
a.
Churches and government buildings shall not be subject to the 35-foot height limit.
b.
The 35-foot height limit shall not apply to barns, silos, grain elevators, windmills, or other farm structures; belfries, cupolas, and domes; public monuments, water towers, antennas and transmission towers (including power line supports), chimneys, smokestacks, flag poles, masts, and aerials.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. V, § 2; Mo. of 5-18-99)
Sec. 44-83. - Natural resource development standards.
(a)
Intent. The intent of this section is to set forth standards for the protection of important and sensitive natural resources in the unincorporated areas of McDuffie County for the purposes of maintaining the public health, safety, and general welfare, and to meet the goals, objectives and policies of the comprehensive plan. Protection and preservation of natural resources can provide unique public benefits for the community. These benefits include, but are not limited to: 1) the protection of sensitive habitats for fish, wildlife and endangered species; 2) prevention of nutrient exchange; 3) protection of surface water recharge areas; 4) protection of areas needed for scientific or educational research; 5) protection of public waters and recreational opportunities; and 6) promulgation of aesthetic enhancement and the protection of property values. These natural resource development standards have been established to feature requirements and/or incentives which are appropriate to providing the aforementioned public benefits, while at the same time reducing the overall negative impacts and public costs which may be imposed by manmade development. These natural resource development standards are applicable in all general zoning districts except where increased or different standards exists within this chapter, or where state or federal standards have jurisdiction or domain.
(b)
Usry Pond Watershed Overlay District requirements. The purpose of establishing special requirements for the Usry Pond Water Supply Watershed is to protect the drinking water supplies for those jurisdictions within McDuffie County that provide public potable water. These protections are necessary for the enhancement of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as to assure that surface sources of drinking water are of high quality, thereby requiring minimal treatment to satisfy all state and federal drinking water standards. This protection is evidenced by the adoption of the Usry Pond Watershed Protection Ordinance by the board of commissioners on February 4, 1998 which shall hereby be incorporated into this zoning ordinance by reference and is found in Appendix A.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. V, § 3)
Sec. 44-84. - Public services and infrastructure development standards.
modified
(a)
Intent. The purpose of establishing development standards for public services and infrastructure in all general zoning districts is to assure that such services and infrastructure are available, and that they provide adequate capacity to offer a level of service consistent with community goals and objectives.
(b)
Requirements for public water and sewer installation. Where public water and sewerage systems are available and reasonably accessible to a proposed development site, linkage to such systems is required. The following standards shall apply to subsequent types of development.
(1)
All developments. Any development that must access and/or install public water and sewerage systems (see subsection (b)(2) below) shall be properly connected to those systems according to the standards of the applicable water and sewer authority.
Capped/dry lines. If a public water system is to be provided by McDuffie County to an affected area by grant application or other means, the planning commission shall place a moratorium on any such developments in that area until such time as it has been confirmed that the grant or other funds have been approved or made available, and that the county will proceed with the utility installation. If approved but prior to actual installation by the county, the planning commission shall require the installation of capped or dry lines in the proposed development. If the grant application or other funds are denied or if the county does not proceed with the intended installation, the development shall be allowed to install on-site water and sewer disposal systems as required in article VI, section 44-109.
(2)
Residential developments. All new residential developments shall be connected to an existing public water system, and where available, a public sewer system if service is available within the following distances, and if the intervening topography does not make service infeasible:
EXPAND
Size of Development Distance to Public Water/Sewer
1 unit or lot *In front of residence
2 units or lots 200 feet from property line
3 units or lots 250 feet from property line
4 units or lots 300 feet from property line
5-15 units or lots 500 feet from property line
16-50 units or lots 2,640 feet from property line
50-100 units or lots One mile from property line
100+ units or lots Utilities required regardless of distance.
  *Where a tap-on and lateral line will access the utilities to the lot or residence. Extension of water main not applicable.
(3)
Commercial and public/institutional developments. All commercial and public/institutional developments within 1,000 feet to the existing public water or sewer system shall be connected.
(4)
Industrial developments. All heavy industrial developments must access water and sewer facilities. All light industrial developments over 3,000 square feet of gross floor area and located within one-half mile of existing public water and sewer shall be connected.
(5)
Planned or mixed use development. All planned unit developments or mixed use developments within one-half mile to existing public water or sewer system shall be connected, or appropriate on-site or community type service shall be provided. Residential subdivisions (planned developments) shall comply with subsection (b)(2) above.
(c)
Private systems prohibited. The installation of private water and sewer systems (serving more than one household) shall be prohibited.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. V, § 4; Ord. No. 21-05, § 1(Exh. A), 10-19-21)
Sec. 44-85. - Parking and access requirements.
(a)
Intent. The purpose of parking and access requirements is to prevent parking problems and other traffic related nuisances, and to improve traffic circulation and safety for each zoning district. This subsection shall provide standards, requirements and incentives for adequate, safe, and convenient off-street parking and access only in all general zoning districts.
(b)
Requirements. The following requirements shall apply to off-street parking and access for both residential and nonresidential developments and shall be further distinguished by the number and size of spaces, relationship of the parking area to the building it serves, and parking lot design.
(1)
Parking space requirements. An adequate number of off-street parking shall be required in all developments to accommodate residents and/or visitors. Off-street parking shall be required for various land uses as follows. On-street or right-of-way parking is prohibited.
a.
Residential uses:
EXPAND
Type Standard
Two-family Two spaces per dwelling unit
Multifamily Two spaces per dwelling unit
Person care homes One space per bed and one space per employee
  b.
All other uses:
1.
Transient dwellings:
EXPAND
Type Standard
Hotels One space for each one room plus one additional space for each five employees
Motels, tourist courts and homes, mobile homes and travel trailer parks Two spaces for each guest bedroom, or mobile horn or travel trailer space, plus one additional space for a resident manager or owner
Board and rooming houses, dormitories One space for each bedroom
  2.
Health facilities:
EXPAND
Type Standard
Hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes for the aged, and similar institutional uses Two spaces for each bed.
Kennels and animal hospitals One space for each 350 square feet of heated space
Medical, dental, and health offices and clinics One space for each 200 square feet of heated floor area
  3.
Public assembly:
EXPAND
Type Standard
Churches and other places of worship One space for each four seats in the main auditorium or sanctuary. [24″ per space = one space]
Private clubs, lodges, and fraternal buildings not providing overnight accommodations One space per 100 square feet of gross floor area
Theaters, auditoriums, coliseums, stadiums, and similar places of assembly One space for each four seats
Libraries, museums One space for each 500 square feet of gross floor space
Schools, including kindergartens, playschools, and day care centers One space for each four seats in assembly hall, or one space for each employee, including teachers and administrators, whichever is greater, plus five spaces per classroom for high schools and colleges
Skating rinks, dance halls, exhibition halls, pool rooms and other places of amusement or assembly without fixed seating arrangements One space for each 100 square feet of floor area or ground area used for amusement or assembly
Bowling alleys Four spaces for each alley
  4.
Businesses:
EXPAND
Type Standard
Automobile service and repair establishments One space for each regular employee plus one space for each 250 square feet of floor area
Food stores One space for each 100 square feet of floor area designated for retail sales only
Restaurants, including bars, cafes, taverns, night clubs, lunch counters, and all similar dining and/or drinking establishments One space for each 75 square feet of patron floor area
Office buildings, including banks, business, commercial, and professional offices One space for each 300 square feet of ground floor area, plus one space for each 500 square feet of upper floor space
General business, commercial, or personal service establishment catering to the retail trade, but excluding food stores Three spaces for each 200 square feet of floor area designed for retail sales only
Government offices One space for each 300 square feet of ground floor area plus one space for each 500 square feet of upper floor area and one space for each governmental vehicle
Shopping centers Five parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
Furniture stores One space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area
  5.
Industries:
EXPAND
Type Standard
Commercial, manufacturing, and industrial establishments, not catering to the retail trade One space for each three employees on the maximum working shift, plus one space for each company vehicle operating from the premises
Wholesale establishments One space for every 50 square feet of customer service area, plus two spaces for each three employees on the maximum working shift, plus one space for each company vehicle operating from the premises
  (2)
Parking lot design standards. Parking lots should be designed to adequately and economically service the facilities that they serve, while at the same time being conscious of the environmental impacts that poor design can cause. McDuffie County recognizes that the design of parking lots varies. However, the following standards are intended to balance the effectiveness of parking lot design with the community goals.
a.
Entrances and exits should be designed to provide adequate and effective circulation, and shall not impede the flow of traffic, or cause traffic congestion or traffic hazards.
b.
There should be sufficient maneuvering room for vehicles to enter and leave the lot and individual spaces without endangering themselves, vehicles traveling in the roadway system, or pedestrians.
c.
Parking bays or stalls shall be no less than 180 square feet. All parking bay designs and stall dimensions shall be approved by the development code administrator.
d.
Where it is determined that substantial traffic congestion or conflict would occur within or proximate to a proposed development access from collector or arterial streets to a parking lot may not be permitted unless an access drive is installed.
e.
Where large paved lots or parking areas are proposed, the requirements in article IV, section 44-72(7) may apply.
f.
The site plan shall provide for adequate drainage and shall minimize erosion.
(3)
Emergency vehicle access. The planning commission may require the applicant to designate separate special emergency vehicle access lanes in appropriation locations as is deemed necessary to provide for emergency vehicle access. Where required, emergency vehicle access lanes shall be located as close as possible to the main entrance of the principal structures of the property, shall be at least 15 feet in width, and shall be visibly designated for exclusive emergency use, either by painting, appropriate signage, or both.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. V, § 5)
Sec. 44-86. - Common open space requirements.
Within developments where open or common space is required or where such space is provided by an applicant, the following conditions shall apply:
(1)
Location of open space. Open space should be distributed evenly throughout the development so that all residents of the development have easy access to such areas.
(2)
"Open space" defined. At least 50 percent of all required common open space shall be developable land area. Common open space shall not include public or private streets, driveways, private yards, or patios, parking areas, or utility easements where the land cannot be used appropriately for active or passive recreation.
(3)
Management agreement for control and maintenance of common areas. No lot or structure in a development containing common or shared open space shall be sold until a corporation, association, property owner's group or similar entity has been formed with the right to assess all the properties which are jointly owned with interests in the common areas and facilities in the entire development or in the tract which is a part of the entire development to meet the expense of such entity, and with authority to control, and the duty to regularly maintain all of said mutually available features of the development or tract portion thereof. In addition, the homeowner's association bylaws or rules shall contain provisions authorizing the local government to maintain said open space at the association's expense and upon 15 days advance written notice, if the association has not properly maintained any or all open space entrusted to it. Such entity shall operate under recorded conditions, covenants and restrictions which may include compulsory memberships of all owners of lots and/or dwelling units, and flexibility of assessments to meet the changing costs of maintenance, repairs, and services. The developer shall submit evidence of compliance with the requirement to the planning commission. This condition shall not apply to land dedicated to the county for public purposes.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. V, § 6)
Sec. 44-87. - Buffer standards.
Every development with the exception of single-family residential shall provide sufficient buffering if existing barriers do not provide reasonable screening. Buffers may be imposed by the board of commissioners. Buffers may also be required for any development by the development code administrator, or planning commission (board) when it has been determined that there is a need: (1) to shield neighboring properties from any adverse external effects of a proposed development, or (2) to shield the proposed development from negative impacts of neighboring uses, such as streets or railroads. Buffers between land uses shall be measured from side and rear property lines, excluding any driveways or internal streets. All buffers shall comply with the following criteria:
(1)
Buffers shall be designed to provide yearround visual screen in order to minimize adverse visual and noise impacts. Acceptable buffers may include earth berms, natural vegetation, wooden or stone fences, or any combination of the aforementioned screening materials. The erection of structures within designated buffer strips shall be prohibited, except for signs, lighting, and utility lines as provided below.
(2)
When any proposed commercial or industrial development abuts an existing or planned residential use; or where proposed commercial or industrial development abut lands used for commercial farming; a vegetated buffer strip of at least 100 feet wide shall be provided along the length of the property line which abuts the farm lands or residential areas.
(3)
Where any other use, excluding residential development, is proposed on land adjacent to land used for commercial farming, a vegetated buffer strip of at least 75 feet wide shall be provided by the proposed development along the length of the property line which abuts the farm lands.
(4)
Where more intensive or concentrated land uses abut less intensive land uses, except as provided above, a buffer strip of at least 50 feet wide shall be provided by the proposed development along the length of the common property line.
(5)
Where a proposed development abuts a street which, according to its functional classification, is designated as a collector, a landscaped buffer strip at least 15 feet wide shall be provided along the property line abutting the road; when designated as an arterial, a landscaped buffer strip at least 20 feet wide shall be provided along the property line abutting the road. Where entrances to the development cross a required road buffer, a single nonilluminated sign may be permitted by the planning commission or board of adjustment. With the exception of visual screens, utility lines, and streetlights (where alternative siting is not possible), no other construction within street buffers may be permitted.
(6)
Where wooden, brick, or stone fencing is used as a visual screen within a buffer, the height of the wall shall not exceed six feet. In addition, natural vegetation, such as flowers, hedges, or dwarf evergreen trees shall be included at regular intervals to soften the appearance of the fence.
(7)
Earth berms shall not exceed five feet in height. Where additional visual screening is desired or required, shrubs or dwarf evergreen trees may be added to the top of the berm. The maximum side slope on the earth berm shall not exceed 50 percent. In addition all slopes on the berm shall be vegetated with turf grass and maintained to prevent erosion.
(8)
Buffer areas shall be maintained and kept free of all debris, rubbish, weeds, and tall grass. Natural plantings shall also be maintained, and all dead or dying plants or trees shall be replaced no later than the beginning of the following planting season.
(9)
Property uses within the Usry Pond Watershed shall comply with the buffer provision of the watershed ordinance (see Appendix A).
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. V, § 7)
Sec. 44-88. - Nonconformities (including grandfathered or preexisting uses).
Within the zoning districts established by this chapter or amendments, there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and characteristics of use which were lawfully created, established, or constructed before this chapter was adopted or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this chapter or further amendments. It is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed or cease to be used for a period of one year at which time it must come into conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(1)
Incompatibility of nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the zoning districts in which such use is located. A nonconforming structure or use may not be extended or enlarged after the passage of this chapter.
(2)
Avoidance of undue hardship. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any development or building upon which actual construction was lawfully initiated prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
(3)
Nonconforming lot of record. A single lot of record which does not meet either the development intensity or basic dimensional requirements of the zoning district at the effective date of adoption or amendments of this chapter may be used or sold for the erection of those buildings and accessory buildings necessary to carry out the permitted uses in that district provided:
a.
The lot(s) or parcel(s) are platted and recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court of McDuffie County prior to the date of adoption of this chapter.
b.
Development intensity and basic dimensional requirements of the lot shall conform to the applicable standards for the zoning district(s) in which such lot is located.
c.
Variance for development intensity and basic dimensional requirements shall be obtained only through action of the board of commission as authorized in article IX.
d.
Setback and/or buffer requirements of principle and accessory buildings an uses are met as provided for in each district.
e.
Parking space requirements for all zoning districts are met.
(4)
Nonconforming uses of structures, land, or structures and land in combination. If a lawful use involving individual structures, land, or structures and land in combination exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that would not be allowed in the zoning district under the terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be continued provided:
a.
When a nonconforming use of a structure, land, or structure and land in combination is discontinued (vacant, "closed down," etc.) or abandoned for more than one year regardless of intent, the structure, land, or structure and land in combination shall not hereafter be used except in conformity with the requirements or standards of the zoning district in which it is located.
b.
Nonconforming structures or portions of structures which are destroyed by any means to the extent of more than 50 percent of its current replacement value, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
c.
Repairs and maintenance. On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use, work may be performed for ordinary repairs including remodeling, or repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, provided that the physical size of the original structure shall not be increased. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official.
d.
Should such nonconforming structure(s) be voluntarily moved for any reason for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the requirements or standards for the zoning district in which it is located after it is moved.
(5)
Nonconforming uses plans submitted. Any development plans submitted to the planning commission prior to the passage of this chapter shall be considered to be grandfathered or preexisting for a period of six months from the date of adoption of this chapter. For a development to be eligible for this exemption, actual construction must begin within the six month period and shall not lapse or be discontinued for a period of greater than 60 days until the development is completed. Should the developer fail to begin the development within the six month exemption period, the development shall conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. V, § 8)
Secs. 44-89—44-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Sec. 44-101. - Regional shopping centers.
(a)
Intent. McDuffie County recognizes that, as the county continues to grow and prosper, the need for and marketability of regional shopping centers designed to serve the retail shopping needs of a regional population (within and beyond McDuffie County) will increase. However, the county also recognizes that such facilities, by virtue of their size and nature, can generate significant impacts on established commercial centers, local growth rates and the distribution of growth in the county, traffic patterns and congestion, public facilities, and sensitive natural resources. Many of the impacts generated by regional shopping centers can be positive, negative, or both. McDuffie County seeks to minimize the negative impacts and maximize the positive impacts by developing standards to manage the county's transition to a regional commercial center in a way that is compatible with the community's ability to absorb the impacts, while not impeding the inevitability of that trend. To implement this impact management scheme, McDuffie County has created special standards to place general guidelines on the design and potential location of regional shopping centers. These guidelines are designed to prevent excess development speculation and competition for the development of regional shopping centers, which could result in market saturation, destabilization of established commercial centers or areas, rapid fluctuations in local property values, and excessive demand on existing public facilities.
(b)
Required conditions. A regional shopping center is a use permitted by special exception in the C-2 General Commercial District, and in the T-1 Interstate Village District. An applicant shall request an amendment to the zoning map for the appropriate district designation for a property that satisfies the following requirements. The planning commission and board of commissioners shall consider these requirements in addition to the criteria listed in article I, section 44-3 when evaluating a request for an amendment to the zoning map to apply the special exception in the appropriate district.
(1)
The lot should be designated on the future land use map for commercial use.
(2)
The lot must be at least 30 acres in size and must contain an additional 3,750 square feet of land area for each proposed additional 1,000 square feet of net floor area over and above the first 350,000 net square feet. At least 80 percent of the proposed lot gross land area shall consist of developable land area.
(3)
The lot must have at least 300 feet of frontage on any arterial highway or a major collector highway.
(4)
The lot must have direct access to public water and sewer.
(5)
The neighboring areas within 0.5 mile of the lot should be characterized primarily by established high volume vehicular traffic commercial land uses that would be complementary to a regional shopping center. Such commercial uses include, but are not limited to, supermarkets, gas stations, automobile repair shops, movie cinemas, restaurants, department stores, hardware or building supply stores, and banks.
(6)
No portion of a lot approved for development of a regional shopping center shall be located within the boundaries of the Usry Pond Watershed Overlay District.
(c)
Application and review procedures. Once the board of commissioners has approved an amendment to the zoning map to apply the regional shopping center special exception to a lot, the owner or his/her duly authorized agent shall submit a development application for approval by the planning commission. The application must be approved by the planning commission within one year of the date of approval of the amendment to the zoning map by the board of commissioners or the planning commission may initiate further rezoning of the regional shopping center property.
(d)
Special development standards. The following special development standards shall apply to all proposed regional shopping centers in addition to the applicable requirements of the general zoning district and overlay zone(s).
(1)
All areas of the proposed development site that do not satisfy the definition of developable land area shall be designated as "open space," which must be retained and maintained in a natural vegetated state. The planning commission may allow the applicant to improve a portion of the designated open space to provide a park or passive recreational uses, such as a walking trail, garden area, or fenced playground, provided the proposed improvements satisfy the following requirements:
a.
The proposed recreational improvements will not affect more than 50 percent of the designated open space areas;
b.
No improvements will be made to lands that are classified as wetlands without written approval from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; and
c.
Public use of the improved recreational areas will not cause undue environmental stress on the remaining open space areas.
(2)
The development will contain adequate stormwater management facilities to comply with the McDuffie County Stormwater Ordinance. The planning commission may request technical assistance in evaluating the applicant's proposed measures to comply with this requirement. Any costs associated with this evaluation assistance shall be paid by the applicant. All drainage improvements shall tie into any available drainageways along the adjoining public streets.
(3)
The development shall have at least two entrances from a public street that are at least 200 feet apart (as measured from accessway centerline to accessway centerline along the intersecting street line). The planning commission may require additional accessways not to exceed two as it deems necessary to accommodate safe entrance, egress, and emergency access to the development.
(4)
A 100-foot wide vegetative buffer shall be provided along all property lines that adjoin an existing residential or agricultural lot.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VI, § 1)
Sec. 44-102. - Manufactured home parks.
(a)
Intent. In order to provide manufactured home park developers with maximum siting flexibility and to provide the county with reasonable latitude to ensure consistency of a proposed manufactured home park with the spirit and intent of this chapter, McDuffie County has created conditions for a special exception in the R-3 General Zoning District in order to place general guidelines on the design and potential location of manufactured home parks.
(b)
Application and review procedures. Manufactured home parks is a use permitted by special exception only in an R-3 High Density Residential Zoning District. The developer or his authorized representative shall first present to the development code administrator for review a preliminary park design. At such time as the development code administrator shall approve the preliminary design, a preliminary plat shall then be forwarded to the planning commission (board) for its review. In addition to its review of the plat, the planning commission (board) shall convene a hearing as prescribed by this chapter to consider the applicant's request for a change in zoning. The results of the plat review and request for a zoning change shall thereafter be forwarded to the board of commissioners for final consideration. In reviewing the preliminary design and plat the development code administrator and the planning commission (board) shall consider any mitigating factors, and, any development criteria including, but not limited to, the following:
(1)
The minimum lot area for a manufactured home park shall be ten acres, but not more than 100 acres, at least 80 percent of which shall consist of developable land area.
(2)
The proposed park entrance shall have frontage along a collector or arterial street that satisfies the following minimum requirements:
a.
Fifty feet for any park that contains less than 15 acres;
b.
One hundred feet for any park that contains at least 15 acres, but less than 25 acres;
c.
One hundred fifty feet for any park that contains at least 25 acres, but less than 50 acres; and
d.
Two hundred feet for any park that contains at least 50 acres.
(3)
All parks shall have a 50-foot street recessed buffer and a 30-foot side and rear buffer. Buffers shall consist of natural vegetation or, if specified by the planning commission, the installation of landscaped vegetation to obscure the park from all park entrances and neighboring uses.
(4)
Manufactured homes class A, B and C (by definition) are permitted. Campers and RV's are permitted.
(5)
The lot should be designated on the future land use map for residential use.
(6)
No portion of the lot, or a park entrance may be located within the boundaries of the Flood Hazard Overlay District or the Usry Pond Watershed Overlay District.
(7)
Manufactured home park lots shall have access from interior park streets only.
(c)
Special development standards. The following special development standards shall also apply to all proposed manufactured home parks in addition to the applicable requirements of the general zoning district and overlay zone(s).
(1)
The minimum size of a manufactured home space or lot shall be 6,000 square feet with a minimum width of 60.
(2)
The minimum front setback shall be 70 feet from the centerline of the street. The minimum side and rear yard depth shall be ten feet from the lot line or bay boundary.
(3)
Each manufactured home shall comply with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq. with regard to the siting and installation of manufactured homes. The use of solid paver footer blocks may be permitted in lieu of poured footers.
(4)
Each manufactured home shall be skirted with masonry or vinyl (only) around the base to obscure views of the pad and supports.
(5)
No manufactured home shall be admitted to any manufactured home park until at least ten lots or spaces have been improved for occupancy in accordance with this chapter.
(6)
Convenience establishments of a commercial nature, including stores, laundry and dry cleaning establishments and pick-up laundry and dry cleaning agencies, and beauty shops and barber shops may be permitted in manufactured home parks provided that such establishments and the parking areas primarily related to their operations:
a.
Shall not occupy more than ten percent of the area of the park;
b.
Shall be subordinate to the residential use and character of the park;
c.
Shall be located entirely within the boundary of the park;
d.
Shall present no visible evidence of their commercial character from outside the park.
(7)
All entrance and interior park streets shall be privately owned and maintained by the owner, developer, or manager with said streets being provided on the site where necessary to furnish principal trafficways for convenient access to all manufactured home spaces or lots and other important facilities on the property. All common land and facilities within a manufactured home park shall have adequate public access to all manufactured home spaces or stands.
(8)
The street system shall be designed to recognize existing easements, utility lines, and other dedicated lands which are to be preserved; and to permit connection to existing facilities where necessary for the proper functioning of the drainage and utility systems.
(9)
The street system should provide convenient circulation by means of minor streets and properly located major streets. Closed ends of dead-end streets should be provided with an adequate paved vehicular turning circle at least 80 feet in diameter. Parks consisting of more than 50 manufactured home spaces or lots shall provide at least two entrances from a public street which are separated by a distance of at least 200 feet from centerline to centerline as measured along the centerline of the intersecting public street.
(10)
All points of entrance to or exit from the park shall be located no closer than 200 feet from any intersection of two public streets or roads as measured from centerline-to-centerline along the appropriate road centerline.
(11)
All proposed streets within a manufactured home park shall comply with the standards in article VII, section 44-137 of this chapter.
(12)
All blocks created within a manufactured home park shall comply with the standards in article VII, section 44-138 of this chapter.
(13)
Each manufactured home park shall provide open spaces not occupied by any dwellings equal to at least ten percent of the total park lot area. The required open space may be used to create a single recreation area for residents of the park or integrated into the park design to create an internal green belt separating clusters of manufactured home spaces. The open space areas should be appropriately landscaped or improved to allow passive recreational uses, such as jogging, picnicking, and other forms of outdoor exercise. The required open space also may be used to increase privacy between clusters of manufactured home spaces within the park. At least fifty percent of all required open space lands must consist of developable land area.
(14)
All designated spaces or individual dwelling units in manufactured home parks shall adhere to the parking requirements in article V, section 44-85.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VI, § 2)
Cross reference— Manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 46.
Sec. 44-103. - Home occupations and cottage industries.
(a)
Home occupations. A home occupation may consist of any accessory business use that fully complies with all of the standards contained in this section. No home occupation shall be allowed in any multifamily dwelling. No home occupation will be allowed which is illegal by county, state, or federal statute.
(1)
The home occupation must be owned and operated by the owner of the dwelling within which the home occupation is to be located, or the business owner must have written approval of the owner of the dwelling, if the applicant is a tenant.
(2)
The home occupation shall be operated only by the members of the family residing in the principal dwelling.
(3)
All business operations, activities, and transactions associated with the home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit. No business operations, activities, or transactions shall be conducted in any portion of the dwelling not approved for home occupation use by the county.
(4)
The home occupation shall not occupy more than 25 percent of the dwelling unit floor area or a maximum of 750 square feet for dwelling units of 3,000 square feet or more.
(5)
The home occupation shall not cause or result in any change in the outside appearance and residential character of the dwelling unit.
(6)
No home occupation in McDuffie County shall require the use of more than one vehicle for exclusive use of the business. Any vehicle used for a home occupation that has a trademark, business advertisement, or other device that represents the business use attached to its surface shall be stored in a garage or in a location on the property that will not be visible from neighboring properties or the street.
(7)
The home occupation shall not involve the use of or result in the production of any hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
(8)
The home occupation shall not generate any business traffic (either by the business operators or business customers) between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(9)
The home occupation shall not produce any vibrations, noises, odors, smoke, glare, electrical disturbance, radioactivity or other conditions that will be a nuisance to the surrounding area.
(10)
All equipment, materials, and products of the home occupation, shall be safely and securely stored inside the dwelling unit at all times.
(11)
The home occupation and dwelling unit shall comply with all applicable building and fire codes. Home occupations will not be permitted in any dwelling unit in which the primary residential use does not fully comply with the applicable zoning requirements for the general zoning district within which it is located.
(12)
No business signs or advertisements greater than nine square feet shall be placed on the premises in conjunction with any home occupation. Sign placement on structures other than sign posts is prohibited.
(b)
Cottage industries. A cottage industry may consist of any accessory business use (except solid waste facilities, junk or scrap metal shops, automobile repair shops or garages, or food processing/packing operations) that fully complies with all of the standards contained in this section. Cottage industries may be permitted only within the R-1 Low Density Residential Zoning District.
(1)
The cottage industry must be owned and operated by the owner of the property upon which the cottage industry is to be located, or the business owner must have written approval of the owner of the property, if the applicant is a tenant.
(2)
The cottage industry shall be operated only by the members of the family residing in the principal dwelling located on the lot upon which the cottage industry will be located.
(3)
All business operations, activities, and transactions associated with the cottage industry shall be conducted entirely within the primary dwelling unit and/or in an accessory building located on the same lot. No business operations, activities, or transactions shall be conducted in any portion of the lot not approved for cottage industry use by the county.
(4)
The cottage industry shall not occupy a total area greater than 50 percent of the total dwelling unit floor area or 1,000 square feet, whichever is less.
(5)
No activities associated with a cottage industry, including materials storage, shall be located or conducted within 50 feet of an adjoining property line. No cottage industry shall be permitted on a lot smaller than three acres in area.
(6)
The cottage industry shall not cause or result in any change in the outside appearance or character of any structure on the lot.
(7)
No cottage industry in McDuffie County shall require the use of more than one vehicle for exclusive use of the business. Any vehicle used for a cottage industry that has a trademark, business advertisement, or other device that represents the business use attached to its surface shall be stored in a garage or in a location on the property that will not be visible from neighboring properties or the street.
(8)
The cottage industry shall not involve the use of or result in the production of any hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
(9)
The cottage industry shall not generate any business traffic (either by the business operators or business customers) between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(10)
The cottage industry shall not produce any vibrations, noises, or odors that may be discernible by the average person beyond the boundaries of the lot.
(11)
All equipment, materials, and products of the cottage industry shall be safely stored inside a secured structure on the lot.
(12)
The cottage industry shall not generate smoke, glare, vibrations, electrical disturbance, or radioactivity or other conditions that will be a nuisance to the surrounding area.
(13)
The cottage industry and dwelling unit shall comply with all applicable building and fire codes. Cottage industries will not be permitted in any structure which does not fully comply with all applicable zoning requirements for the general zoning district or overlay zone(s) within which it is located.
(14)
No business signs or advertisements greater than nine square feet shall be placed on the premises in conjunction with any cottage industry.
(c)
Expiration. A home occupation or cottage industry shall be considered expired under the following conditions:
(1)
Whenever the applicant ceases to occupy the lot for which the home occupation or cottage industry was issued, no subsequent occupant of such premises shall engage in any home occupation or cottage industry until a new application for the new cottage industry has been reviewed by the planning commission.
(2)
Whenever the home occupation or cottage industry ceases operation of the business use for any period of 90 consecutive days.
(d)
Yard or garage sales. Yard sales shall be allowed on a residential lot or parcel for not more than two sales not to exceed two days each during a 12-month period. Such activities shall not be classified as a home occupation or cottage industry.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VI, § 3)
Sec. 44-104. - Antennas and transmission towers.
(a)
Applicability.
(1)
District height limitations. The requirements set forth in this chapter shall govern the location of towers that exceed, and antennas that are installed at a height in excess of, the height limitations specified for each zoning district. The height limitations applicable to buildings and structures shall not apply to towers and antennas.
(2)
Public property. Antennas and towers located on publicly owned property shall be exempt from the requirements of this section, provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna to tower has been approved by the governing authority.
(3)
Amateur radio; receive only antennas. This section shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is under 70 feet in height and is owned and operated by a federally-licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive only antennas.
(4)
Grandfathered towers and antennas. Any tower or antenna existing on the effective date of this chapter shall not be required to meet the requirements of this section, other than the requirements of sections 44-104(b)(5) and (6). Any such towers or antennas that fail to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be referred to in this chapter as "grandfathered towers" or "grandfathered antennas."
(b)
General requirements.
(1)
Purpose and goals. The purpose of this section is to establish general requirements for the siting of towers and antennas. The goals of this section are to: encourage the location of towers in nonresidential areas and minimize the total number of towers throughout the community; to encourage strongly the joint use of new and existing tower sites; to encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal; to encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas; and to enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and efficiently.
(2)
Principal or accessory use. Antennas and towers may be considered either principal or accessory uses. An existing tower structure on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or tower on such lot. For the purposes of determining whether the installation of a tower or antenna complies with district development regulations the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the antennas to towers may be located on leased parcels within such lots.
(3)
Inventory of existing sites. Each applicant for an antenna and/or tower shall provide to the planning commission an inventory of its existing towers, including specific information about the location, height, and design of each tower. The planning commission may share such information with other applicants applying for administrative approvals or special exception permits under this chapter or other organizations seeking to locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the governing authority.
(4)
Aesthetics and lighting. The guidelines set forth in this section shall govern the location of all towers, and the installation of all antennas, governed by this section, provided that the governing authority may waive these requirements if it determines that the goals of this chapter are better served thereby.
a.
Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted sky blue, gray, or foliage green or such color as is specified by the planning commission, so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
b.
At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend the tower facilities to the natural setting and built environment.
c.
If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as visually unobtrusive as possible.
d.
Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the governing authority may review the available lighting alternatives and approve the design that would cause the least disturbance to the surrounding views.
(5)
Federal requirements. All towers must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers and antennas governed by this section shall bring such towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations. Failure to do so shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at the owner's expense.
(6)
Building codes and safety standards. To ensure the aesthetic appearance and structural integrity of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is properly maintained and, in regard to its structural integrity, it shall be maintained in compliance with standards contained in applicable local building codes and the applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic Industries Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the governing authority inspection department concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to the downer of the tower, the owner shall have 30 days to bring such tower into compliance with such standards. If the owner fails to bring such tower into compliance with such standards. If the owner fails to bring such tower into compliance within said 30 days, the governing authority may remove such tower at the owner's expense.
(c)
Permitted uses.
(1)
General. The uses listed in this section are deemed to be permitted uses and shall not require administrative review or a special exception application. Nevertheless, all such uses shall comply with subsections 44-104(b)(4), (5), and (6) above and all other applicable ordinances, and prior to the installation of any antenna or tower pursuant to this section, the owner of such antenna or tower shall send written notice to the planning commission, which notice shall include the location, size, and configuration of such antenna or tower.
(2)
Uses permitted by right. The following uses are specifically permitted:
a.
Locating a tower or antenna, including the placement of additional buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with said tower or antenna, in any industrial or commercial zoning district; provided, however, that such tower shall be set back from any existing off-site residential structure a distance equal to the height of the tower;
b.
Installing an antenna on an existing structure such as an existing tower, building, sign, light pole, water tower, or other freestanding nonresidential structure that is 50 feet in height or greater, so long as said additional antenna adds no more than 20 feet to the height of said existing structure.
(d)
Administrative approvals.
(1)
General.
a.
The development code administrator (DCA) may administratively approve the uses listed in subsection (d)(2) of this section.
b.
Each applicant for administrative approval shall apply to the planning commission, providing the information set forth in subsections (e)(2) and (4) of this section.
c.
The development code administrator (DCA) shall unless due to specific causes of a delay, respond to each such application within 30 days after receiving it by either approving or denying the application. If the DCA fails to respond to the applicant within said 30 days, the application shall be deemed to be approved.
d.
In connection with any such administrative approval, the DCA may, in order to encourage shared use, administratively reduce any district setback requirements by up to 50 percent.
(2)
Specific administratively approved uses. The following uses may be approved by the development code administrator (DCA) after conducting an administrative review:
a.
Installing an antenna on an existing structure such as an existing tower, building, sign, light pole, water tower, or other freestanding nonresidential structure) that is less than 50 feet in height, so long as said additional antenna adds no more than 20 feet to the height of said existing structure;
b.
Locating any alternative tower structure in a zoning district other than industrial or commercial than in the judgment of the DCA is in conformity with the goals set forth in section 44-104(b)(1) of this chapter;
c.
Locating any tower structure in a zoning district other than industrial or commercial that a Georgia licensed professional engineer certifies can accommodate the ultimate number of shared users proposed by the applicant, and that the DCA concludes is in conformity with the goals set forth in section 44-104(b)(1) and the requirements of this section, and that meets the following height and usage criteria:
1.
For a single user, up to 90 feet in height,
2.
For two users, up to 120 feet in height, and
3.
For three or more users, up to 150 feet in height.
(e)
Special exception uses.
(1)
General. The following provisions shall govern the issuance of special exception uses:
a.
If a tower or antenna is not a permitted use under subsection (c)(2) of this section, then a special exception review shall be required for the construction of a tower or the placement of an antenna in all zoning districts.
b.
In recommending a special exception use, the planning commission board may impose conditions to the extent the board concludes such conditions are necessary to minimize any adverse effect of the proposed tower on adjoining properties.
c.
Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant submits, whether civil, mechanical, or electrical shall be certified by a licensed Georgia professional engineer.
(2)
Site plan. Each applicant requesting a special exception use under this section shall submit a scaled site plan and a scaled elevation view and other supporting drawings, calculations, and other documentation, signed and sealed by a licensed Georgia professional engineer or surveyor showing the location and dimensions of all improvements, including information concerning topography, tower height requirements, setbacks, drives, parking, fencing, landscaping, adjacent uses, and other information necessary to assess compliance with this chapter.
(3)
Factors considered in granting special exception uses. The planning commission board shall consider the following factors in determining whether to issue a special use permit:
a.
Height of the proposed tower,
b.
Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential district boundaries,
c.
Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties,
d.
Surrounding topography,
e.
Surrounding tree coverage and foliage,
f.
Design of the tower, with particular reference to the design characteristics that have the effect of reducing or elimination visual obtrusiveness, and
g.
Availability of suitable existing towers and other structures as discussed in subsection (e)(4) below.
(4)
Availability of suitable existing towers or other structures. No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the governing authority that no existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing owner or structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna may consist of any of the following:
a.
No existing towers or structures are located within the geographic area required to meet the applicant's engineering requirements.
b.
Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to meet the applicant's engineering requirements.
c.
Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural strength to support the applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment.
d.
The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the applicant's proposed antenna.
e.
The fees or costs required to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower development are presumed unreasonable.
f.
Property owners or owners of existing towers or structures are unwilling to accommodate reasonably the applicant's needs.
g.
The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
(5)
Security fencing. Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not less than six feet in height and shall be equipped with an appropriate anti-climbing device, provided however, that the governing authority may (in its sole discretion) waive such requirements, as it deems appropriate.
(6)
Landscaping. The following guidelines shall govern the landscaping surrounding towers for which a special exception use is required; provided however, that the governing authority may (in its sole discretion) waive such requirements if the goals of the section 44-105 would be better served.
a.
Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant materials that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from adjacent residential property.
b.
In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived altogether.
c.
Existing natural tree growth and natural land forms on the site shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property perimeter may be a sufficient buffer.
(f)
Removal of abandoned antennas and towers. Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or tower shall remove same within 90 days of receipt of notice from the governing authority notifying the owner of such abandonment. If such antenna or tower is not removed within said time period, the governing authority may remove such antenna or tower at the owner's expense. If there are two or more users of a single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all users cease using the tower.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VI, § 4)
Sec. 44-105. - Solid waste facilities.
Every application to develop a solid waste facility shall be treated as a major application. All solid waste facilities must comply with the following performance standards:
(1)
Proximity to airports/heliports. No solid waste facility shall be located within 10,000 feet of the runway centerline of any airport. No solid waste disposal facility shall be located within 5,000 feet of the center point of a helicopter landing pad.
(2)
Proximity to floodplains. No solid waste facility shall be located within 100 feet of the boundary of a flood hazard area as identified on the applicable FEMA Flood Boundary Map for McDuffie County.
(3)
Proximity to wetlands. No solid waste facility shall be located on a property containing a wetland as defined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
(4)
Distance from a national historic site. No solid waste facility shall be located within one mile of the geographic center of a site listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
(5)
Proximity to jurisdictional boundaries. No solid waste facility shall be located within 0.5 mile of an adjoining county or municipality border, unless the applicant receives approval of the facility plan from the adjoining government's governing body.
(6)
Proximity to water supply watersheds. No solid waste facility shall be located within one mile of the boundaries of a water supply watershed for a public drinking water system as identified by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
(7)
Proximity to Clarks Hill Lake. No solid waste facility shall be located within one mile of the shoreline of Clarks Hill Lake as measured from the mean high water mark.
(8)
Proximity to regionally important resources. No solid waste facility shall be located within 100 feet of the boundaries of any regionally important resource designated by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs.
(9)
Proximity to special protected uses. No solid waste facility boundary shall be located within 500 feet of the following:
a.
Any residential structure;
b.
Any private well;
c.
Any educational building, whether public or private;
d.
Any hospital, clinic, convalescence facility, or nursing home.
e.
Any day care center.
(10)
General design standards. All solid waste facilities that receive solid waste on or after October 9, 1993 shall be constructed in compliance with EPA Subtitle D of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended. In addition, such facilities shall comply with the following additional design requirements:
a.
All solid waste facilities shall have a minimum lot size of 100 acres.
b.
All solid waste facilities shall be served by no less than two accessways from a paved public road or highway that are at least 100 feet apart (as measured from accessway centerline to accessway centerline along the intersecting street line). All accessways shall be closed to vehicle access when the facility is not in operation.
c.
No structures associated with a solid waste disposal facility shall be located within 300 feet of any adjoining property line. All land used as a solid waste facility site located within 50 feet of an adjoining property line (including street/road rights-of-way) shall be maintained in a natural vegetated state. The planning commission may require additional screening or fencing as necessary to minimize visual impacts on adjoining properties.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VI, § 5)
Cross reference— Solid wastes, ch. 66.
Sec. 44-106. - Heavy industry standards.
Every application to develop a heavy industry shall be treated as a major application. All heavy industry uses, including those uses permitted within the I-2 district, shall comply with the following requirements:
(1)
Location. The boundaries of a lot upon which a heavy industry is or is to be located shall not be sited within 1,000 feet of any residential dwelling, or any property containing a school, public playground, church, hospital, clinic, public library, day care center, residential child care facility, or other institution for children or dependents. No portion of a lot approved for development of a heavy industry shall be located within 500 feet of the boundaries of the Flood Hazard Overlay District or the Lake Overlay District.
(2)
Dimensional requirements. A lot upon which a heavy industry is or is to be located shall contain at least three acres, and shall comply with the applicable dimensional requirements for the district in which the lot is located.
(3)
Compliance with federal and state regulations. No permit for construction of a heavy industry shall be issued by the development code administrator until the applicant has provided copies of permits or approvals verifying compliance of the proposed land development activities with all applicable federal and state regulations, including, but not limited to, the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and Air Quality Control Regulations promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency. The planning commission may require the applicant to utilize the best available technology to treat and minimize potential pollution impacts generated by the proposed use.
(4)
Storage of hazardous materials. All hazardous materials shall be stored in compliance with the applicable requirements of section 44-108 of this article.
(5)
Adjustment to height restrictions. The planning commission may allow structures associated with a heavy industry to exceed the height restrictions for the zoning district, if such increase is necessary to minimize potential pollution impacts and the applicant shall utilize the best available technology to treat the pollution that will be generated. However, no height restriction modification shall be granted that would allow any structure to exceed or breach the imaginary surfaces established for the Thomson-McDuffie County airport under Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR).
(6)
Protection of sensitive natural resources. All areas of a heavy industry lot that do not constitute developable land areas shall be reserved and maintained as open space. The planning commission may require an additional buffer area of up to 25 feet in width between the proposed industrial uses or activities and the open space lands, if it deems the buffer necessary to protect the open space lands from potential or accidental pollution impacts.
(7)
Landscaping. All heavy industries shall be attractively landscaped to help mitigate their potential visual impacts on adjoining lands. The planning commission may impose special landscaping and buffer requirements as is consistent with this chapter and as it deems necessary to screen the proposed use from neighboring properties.
(8)
Municipal water and sewer. Heavy industry uses shall be served by municipal water and sewer.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VI, § 6)
Sec. 44-107. - Automobile service station requirements.
All automobile service stations shall comply with the following requirements:
(1)
Location. The boundaries of a lot upon which an automobile service station is or is to be located shall not be within 100 feet of any residential dwelling, or any property containing a school, public playground, church, hospital, clinic, public library, day care center, residential child care facility, or other institution for children or dependents. No automobile service station shall be located within the boundaries of the Usry Pond Watershed Overlay District.
(2)
Site requirements. All buildings shall be setback a minimum of 100 feet from all street centerlines (125 feet on state routes) and all canopies shall be set back 40 feet from all street right-of-way lines.
(3)
Access to site. Vehicular entrances or exits at an automobile service station:
a.
Shall not be provided with more than two curb cuts for the first 120 feet of street frontage or fraction thereof, plus no more than one additional curb cut for each additional 150 feet of street frontage or fraction thereof.
b.
Shall contain an access width along the curbline of the street of not more than 40 feet as measured parallel to the street at its narrowest point and shall not be located closer than 20 feet to a street intersection or closer than ten feet to the adjoining property.
c.
Shall not have any two driveways or curb cuts along a single street that are closer together than 50 feet as measured from centerline-to-centerline of the curb cuts.
(4)
Gasoline pump islands. All gasoline pump islands shall be set back at least 40 feet from the right-of-way line, or where a future right-of-way widening line has been established, the setback line shall be measured from such proposed right-of-way. Where pump islands are constructed perpendicular to the right-of-way line; however, the pumps shall be at least 60 feet from the right-of-way.
(5)
Off-street parking. A minimum of two off-street parking spaces are required with an additional off-street parking space to provide extra parking for each lubrication and wash bay.
(6)
Other site improvements. In addition to the above requirements, the proposed use shall comply with the following additional site improvements:
a.
A raised curb of at least six inches in height shall be erected along the street property lines, except for driveway openings.
b.
A solid fence or wall six feet in height shall be erected along all adjacent property lines facing any adjacent residential lot.
c.
Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that it is deflected away from adjacent properties. The planning commission may require the use of special shielding to satisfy this requirement.
d.
Signs, whether permanent or temporary, shall not be placed within the public right-of-way and shall be arranged so that they do not obstruct visibility for drivers or pedestrians.
e.
All drives, parking storage, and service areas shall be paved and curbed and a good stand of grass shall be maintained on the remainder of the lot.
f.
The planning commission may require reserved and designated areas for emergency vehicle access, if the shape of the lot or arrangement/placement of structures and/or off-street parking areas could obstruct access by emergency vehicles.
(7)
Storage of flammable or explosive materials. All above ground tanks for the storage of gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, oil or other inflammable liquids or gases shall be prohibited at any automobile service station. All automobile service stations shall comply with the applicable requirements contained in section 44-108 of this article.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VI, § 7)
Sec. 44-108. - Hazardous materials storage requirements.
Any and all facilities that will be used for the storage of hazardous materials associated with commercial or industrial uses shall comply with the applicable standards and specifications established by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Georgia State Fire Marshal. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide evidence that the proposed storage facilities shall comply with all applicable federal and state requirements. In addition, the following standards shall apply:
(1)
Underground storage tanks. All explosive or flammable chemicals, liquids, or gasses associated with commercial or industrial uses shall be stored in underground storage tanks that comply with the requirements of this section, unless the applicant can provide documentation that underground storage is technically inappropriate or infeasible. All underground storage tanks used for the storage of hazardous materials shall comply with the following requirements:
a.
All such tanks shall comply with state requirements.
b.
All such tanks shall be buried to a depth of at least six feet below the surface of the ground.
c.
All such tanks shall be fitted with a leak detection system.
d.
All such tanks shall be replaced no later than 25 years after the date of installation.
e.
No such tank shall be located within 50 feet of the nearest adjoining property line.
f.
No such tank shall be located within 100 feet of any private well.
(b)
Aboveground storage tanks. All aboveground storage tanks used to store gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, oil, or other flammable or explosive liquids, gases, and hazardous materials shall not be located closer to the nearest adjoining property line than specified below:
(1)
One hundred feet for any tank(s) with a combined total storage volume of not more than 1,000 gallons.
(2)
Two hundred fifty feet for any tank(s) with a combined total storage volume of more than 1,000 gallons, but not more than 5,000 gallons.
(3)
Five hundred feet for any tank(s) with a combined total storage volume of more than 5,000 gallons, but not more than 10,000 gallons.
(4)
The planning commission may determine special setback requirements for any tank(s) with a combined storage volume of more than 10,000 gallons, however such setback requirement shall not be less than 500 feet.
(5)
The planning commission may require special reserved areas for emergency vehicle access in the vicinity of proposed aboveground storage tanks to ensure adequate access for fire suppression equipment. The planning commission may request review of such proposed reserved areas by the McDuffie County Fire Chief.
(3)
Other aboveground storage facilities. Where any hazardous materials associated with a commercial or industrial use are stored in facilities under than an aboveground or underground tank, such facilities shall satisfy the following requirements:
a.
No such storage facility, shed, or room shall be located closer to the nearest adjoining property line than 50 feet.
b.
All such storage facilities shall comply with all applicable federal and state fire and building codes.
c.
All such storage facilities shall be fully enclosed and all accesses shall be locked when the business use is not in operation.
d.
The planning commission may require special reserved areas for emergency vehicle access in the vicinity of proposed hazardous materials storage facilities to
ensure adequate access for fire suppression equipment. The planning commission may request review of such proposed reserved areas by the McDuffie County Fire Chief.
(4)
Local reporting requirement. Any business or industry that utilizes or stores hazardous materials shall prepare a list of all such materials and the quantities and storage location on the property. This list shall be provided as required by the McDuffie County Fire Coordinator.
(5)
Disposal of hazardous materials and hazardous waste. No hazardous materials or hazardous wastes shall be deposited or buried on-site or on any other land in McDuffie County that has not been licensed by the Environmental Protection Division for the disposal of hazardous wastes or does not comply with all state and federal laws regarding the disposal of hazardous wastes.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VI, § 8)
Sec. 44-109. - On-site water and sewer requirements.
All proposed on-site water and sewage disposal systems shall be approved by the McDuffie County Health Department and shall meet minimum requirements set by the State of Georgia prior to issuance of an occupancy permit by the development code administrator. As referenced by article V, section 44-84(c); private water and sewer systems are prohibited.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VI, § 9)
Sec. 44-110. - Signs.
(a)
Purpose and intent. It is the purpose of the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners in enacting this section to provide standards to safeguard life, public health, property and welfare by regulating the location, size, illumination, erection, maintenance and quality of materials of all signs. More specifically, signs have a powerful impact on the aesthetic environment of the community, and it is the purpose of this section to encourage an aesthetically attractive environment, while allowing sufficient opportunities for communications to serve business and comply with the federal and state constitutions and laws. Signs create visual clutter and therefore should be regulated in their size, location, construction and illumination. Signs can detract from the beauty of the neighborhood and lower property values. In seeking to comply with federal and state law, the board has determined the following: large billboards are, as the U.S. Supreme Court has recognized, an aesthetic harm; the [State of] Georgia Supreme Court has upheld sign regulations on the basis of aesthetics and preserving the beauty of environment; and, the Eleventh Circuit has recognized portable signs are visual clutter and a potential traffic hazard. The holdings show that the county's ordinance is within the law and therefore constitutional, which is a goal of the county.
Many signs can also be a hazard and negatively impact traffic safety, by distracting drivers and blocking views of other vehicles and dangers, by making intersections more treacherous, and by making it difficult to see oncoming traffic when entering a roadway. Therefore, it is also the purpose of this section to prevent those harms by regulating signs to safe locations, safe sizes, with proper and safe illumination and construction.
(b)
Permitted signs. Following is a list of permitted signs for each specific zoning district. If not otherwise stated, any sign not specifically permitted in a zoning district as provided under this section shall be prohibited.
(1)
R-1 and R-2 zoning district:
a.
Ground signs: One single face sign per lot having an occupied residential structure.
Maximum size: Six sq. ft.
Maximum height: Six feet above ground level.
Maximum width: Six feet.
Illumination: See subsection (e)(5).
b.
Window signs: One sign of up to four square feet per dwelling, provided it does not cover more than 25% of the window.
c.
Wall signs: Not permitted.
d.
Monument sign (subdivision): See subsection (c)(2).
(2)
R-3 zoning district:
a.
Ground signs:
1.
One single or double face sign per total frontage, and located within 200 feet of the main entrance.
Maximum Size: 32 sq. ft. each face.
Maximum Height: 12 feet above ground level.
Maximum Width: 12 feet.
Illumination: See subsection (e)(5).
(OR)
2.
One monument sign at each main entrance, single or double face.
Maximum size: 24 sq. ft. each face.
Maximum height: Eight feet above ground level.
Maximum width: 12 feet.
Illumination: See subsection (e)(5).
b.
Window signs: One sign of up to four square feet per dwelling, provided it does not cover more than 25% of the window.
c.
Wall signs: Not permitted, other than for building identification and public safety.
(3)
C-1, C-2, T-1 zoning districts:
EXPAND
[For single business lots only:       For multi-business lots see section F.]
  a.
Ground signs:
1.
One double-face sign of up to 112 sq. ft. per face, per total road frontage. If the lot contains a principal building of over 10,000 sq. ft., this amount increases to 150 sq. ft., and if the principal building exceeds 100,000 sq. ft., the amount increases to 200 sq. ft.
Maximum height: 30 feet above ground level.
Maximum width: 25 feet
(OR)
2.
One double face monument sign, as defined, not to exceed 32 sq. ft. per face.
Maximum height: Eight feet above ground level.
Maximum Width: 16 feet
b.
Window signs: Total signage not to exceed 25% of the area of all windows of each wall.
c.
Wall signs: Total signage not to exceed 100 square feet on all walls of each business. For a business building of over 15,000 sq. ft., the total amount increases to 200 sq. ft. for all walls of that building.
Maximum height: Wall signs may not exceed the height of the wall upon which they are attached, nor extend below the ceiling of any incorporated exterior walkway or other ceiling. Roof signs are not permitted.
d.
Planned development—See subsection (b)(5).
(4)
I-1 and I-2 zoning districts:
a.
Ground signs:
1.
One double-face sign per road frontage of up to 112 sq. ft. per face. If the lot contains a principal building of over 50,000 sq. ft., this amount increases to 150 sq. ft.
Maximum height: 30 feet above ground level.
Maximum width: 25 feet
(OR)
2.
Up to two double face monument signs, as defined, at each entrance, not to exceed 32 sq. ft. per face.
Maximum height: Eight feet above ground level.
Maximum Width: 16 feet
b.
Window signs: Total signage not to exceed 25% of the area of windows facing road frontage.
c.
Wall signs: Total signage not to exceed 100 sq. ft. on all walls of each industry. If the lot contains a principal industrial building of over 50,000 sq. ft., the total amount increases to 200 sq. ft.
Maximum height: Wall signs may not exceed the height of the wall upon which they are attached, nor extend below the ceiling of any incorporated exterior walkway or other ceiling. Roof signs are not permitted.
(5)
Planned developments signs in the C-1, C-2, I-1, I-2, and T-1 zoning districts:
EXPAND
For residential planned developments: See subsection (c)(2).
  a.
Ground signs: One double-face sign of up to 112 sq. ft., generally for the use of the anchor or development name. If the entire development contains over 50,000 total sq. ft., this amount increases to 160 sq. ft. Tenants signs may be placed below the main sign but not lower than eight feet from common grade level, nor extend beyond the outer limits of the main sign cabinet. For planned developments on corner lots, see subsection (c)(10).
Maximum height: 35 feet above ground level.
Maximum width: 25 feet
b.
Window signs: Total signage per business not to exceed 25% of the area of each wall.
c.
Wall signs: In a planned development (shopping center, commercial or industrial center, office park, etc.), any individual commercial business less than 15,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area may erect up to two wall signs not to exceed a total of 100 sq. ft. of sign space for all walls of each business. Each business exceeding 15,000 sq. ft. may place up to four signs not to exceed 200 sq. ft. for all walls of each business.
Maximum height: Wall signs may not exceed the height of the wall upon which they are attached, nor extend below any incorporated exterior walkway or other ceiling. Roof signs are not permitted.
(c)
Additional permitted signs. The following signs are also permitted:
(1)
Individual vehicle signs: Vehicles may display up to four sq. ft. of signage. Such signs shall be attached or be adhered directly to the body of the vehicle.
(2)
Subdivision entrance signs: One monument sign, single or double-face sign, may be permitted at every main entrance to any residential subdivision, mobile home park, mobile home subdivision, apartment complex, other similar residential development. Such signs shall not exceed; six feet in height, 12 feet in width, nor 32 sq. ft. for each face. Only external illumination is permitted. Note: See subsection (e)(5)a.
(3)
Entrance/exit signs: In the commercial (incl. T-1) and industrial zones: Two single or double-faced pole or monument style signs each clearly indicating "Entrance" and "Exit" respectively. Each sign may not exceed three feet in height, nor three square feet per face. Such signs shall be internally illuminated only and may be placed within one foot of the right-of-way.
(4)
Public purpose/safety signs: State and local jurisdiction public purpose and safety signs are permitted in every zoning district. Such signs can be placed in the right-of-way provided they do not create a safety hazard.
(5)
Any sign not visible from the outside of a structure or to passing members of the public is not regulated by this section.
(6)
Holiday lighting: Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message, illuminated only between November 1 and January 15.
(7)
Real estate signs. One nonanimated real estate sign, per agency, per lot. Such signs shall not require a permit and shall be limited to signs whose permitted maximum display surface area shall be as follows:
a.
Residential - four sq. ft.
b.
Commercial - 16 sq. ft.
(8)
Construction/home improvement signs: Residential home improvement signs may be placed on the site of the construction or repair provided all such signs do not exceed six sq. ft. in size and are removed within seven days after completion of work. Commercial and Industrial construction signs displaying the intended occupant (i.e., "Coming Soon") or the names of the contractor(s) or subcontractor(s) may be placed on the site of the construction or repair provided all such signs do not exceed 32 sq. ft. and are removed within seven days after cessation or completion of construction.
(9)
Temporary type signs: See subsection (f) and (g).
(10)
Corner lot signage: Single business and planned developments on corner lots are allowed ground signs on both roads/streets provided that the secondary road, as designated by the DCA, must have a minimum of 200' of frontage.
Secondary roads having less than 200' of frontage shall be permitted one 32 sq. ft. double faced monument sign as defined. Such signage shall not be accumulated and used on only one of the street frontages.
(11)
Election/candidate signs: Election/candidate signs shall require no permit and may be permitted in all zoning districts. Such signs shall be limited to one single face sign per road frontage and shall not exceed four (6) sq. ft. in any residential, nor 32 sq. ft. in any non residential zoning district. Signs shall be permitted eight weeks prior to the election and must be removed within 14 days following any election or runoff election and shall thereafter be forfeited to the county for immediate removal. All such signs shall conform to any other applicable provisions of these regulations.
(12)
Strip panel rotating sign faces shall be permitted, however, such rotation is restricted to the vertical strip sign advertising face only where such strips do not exceed six inches in width.
(13)
In addition to any single support sign permitted in the C and T zoning districts, a double faced copy change board may also be permitted in those same districts, excluding any planned developments. Such sign shall be located on the same support structure, separate from and below the main sign, and may not exceed 4' × 8', nor be placed lower than ten feet to common grade level.
(d)
Prohibited signs (or portions thereof). Signs which are prohibited include, but are not limited to:
(1)
Roof signs.
(2)
Sidewalk, A-frame, sandwich type, curb type, or daily placement signs.
(3)
Portable signs, except as permitted in subsection (f).
(4)
(Reserved).
(5)
Animated signs involving motion or sound, including rotating signs or parts thereof.
(6)
Flashing, blinking, or signs of varying light intensity with the exception of signs giving the time and temperature.
(7)
Exposed neon or signs containing exposed neon tubing which are not enclosed within a channel or box lettering.
(8)
Lighter than air, balloon, blimp, or other inflatable device which are tethered.
(9)
Signs which contain or are an imitation of an official traffic sign or signal, or can be confused with an official traffic sign including those signs employing the word "Stop", "Yield", "Go", etc.
(10)
(Reserved).
(11)
Signs that have been abandoned, including signs that advertise an activity, business, product or service no longer active or in existence.
(12)
Banners within 20' of a property line or right-of-way.
(13)
Signs not in good repair, specifically including any sign which is in a state of disrepair or disassembly, or any sign which has its internal lighting exposed to view for more than one week.
(14)
Signs or advertising devices attached directly onto any vehicle parked for more than 48 hours so as to be visible from a public right-of-way, except for work vehicles of a business and common carriers or other vehicles used for daily transportation with a valid license plate.
(15)
Canopy or awnings having a commercial message sign attached to or incorporated within the canopy or awning, with the exception of the name and address of the establishment.
(16)
Streamers or beacons.
(17)
Signs forfeited.
a.
Any sign installed or placed on public property including right-of-ways except in conformance with the requirements of this section.
b.
Signs attached to any street signs or markers, traffic control signs or devices, or attached to, or painted on, any sign pole, to any post, tree, rock, or other natural object or feature.
Such signs may be forfeited to the public and subject to immediate confiscation. In addition to other remedies hereunder, the county shall have the right to recover from the sign owner or person(s) placing or maintaining such sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such sign.
(e)
Standards.
(1)
Computation of sign area: The area of a sign shall be computed as the area within the smallest square, rectangle, or portion thereof enclosing, or which would have enclosed, the outer limits of the sign face and frame, text, material, texture, or color forming an integral part of the sign or used to differentiate the sign face and frame from the structure upon which it is placed.
(2)
Content: Any sign, display or device allowed under this section may contain any commercial or non-commercial message, except that such messages cannot be profane, depict obscenity as defined by O.C.G.A. 16-12-80, nor can it depict sexual conduct or sexually explicit nudity as defined by O.C.G.A. 36-60-3, nor advertise any illegal activity.
(3)
Embellishments: Sign embellishments (including protrusions) shall not constitute greater than 20% of the surface of the sign face or perimeter. Protrusions greater than twelve inches from the sign face and eighteen inches from the sign perimeter are prohibited.
(4)
Number: For the purposes of determining the number of signs, ground signs shall be equal to the number of sign structures. All other non-ground signs shall be considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements organized, related and composed to form a unit. Where matter is displayed in random manner without organized relationship of elements, such elements shall be considered to be a single sign.
(5)
Illumination:
a.
Ground signs shall not be internally illuminated in the residential districts (R-1, 2, 3). All external lighting shall be positioned and shielded so that the light source cannot be seen directly by any passing motorist nor cause detriment to any surrounding businesses for residents.
b.
Flashing, blinking or otherwise illumination of varying degree is not permitted. Lighting that causes confusion with, or distraction from, any traffic signal or safety device shall not be permitted.
c.
All externally illuminated signs shall utilize low wattage luminaries, mounted in fixtures designed to direct the light and eliminate light trespass.
d.
All internally illuminated signs shall utilize low wattage luminaries designed to reduce light glow.
e.
All signs over six feet in height shall be internally illuminated or by external lighting fixtures located below the sign area.
(6)
Support and stabilization. With the exception of planned development signs which may be of a double pole type (see subsection (b)(5)a.), all other signs, banners, and the like, shall be self-supporting upon a single support (ie. monopole) and within its own framework structure, and shall not employ the use of guy wires or other external support bracing for stabilization.
(7)
Setbacks. All signs or protrusions thereof which are located on the ground must be setback at least five feet from any public right-of-way or property line. No permanently affixed ground sign shall interfere with any public utility or vehicular line of sight. Setbacks from the right-of-way of I-20 shall be 250' except for those developments fronting on opposing roads.
(8)
Corner visibility. No sign or sign structure above the height of three feet may be sited within fifteen feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of either street.
(9)
Fire safety. No sign or sign structure may be erected or maintained which obstructs any form of fire escape or fire lane.
(10)
No sign or portion of a sign may project or extend over any residential, commercial, industrial structure, any driveway, walkway or the like.
(11)
Design. In all C, T, and I zones all signs shall be of a single support (eg. monopole) design, with the exception of planned development signs located in those districts. [Also see subsec. (b)(5) and (e)(6)]
(f)
Long duration temporary signs (15-60 days):
(1)
The following types of long duration temporary signs may be displayed only in the C, T, and I zoning districts upon the issuance of a temporary permit by the planning commission.
a.
Inflatable ground advertising devices and figures.
b.
Search lights, lasers and similar devices.
c.
Banners, including flag banners.
(2)
Only one long duration temporary sign or device may be used on one lot at the same time.
(3)
A temporary permit shall be valid for not more than 60 days. A business or individual cannot request more than one temporary permit every six months.
(g)
Short duration temporary signs (1-14 days):
(1)
Weekend signs: Weekend signs shall not exceed three feet in height and four sq. ft. per side, and shall not be more than two sided. Such signs shall be made of waterproof material, and must be attached to an independent mounting device no more than forty inches above ground level. The mounting must be secure to prevent the sign from blowing off of the device. The sign or mounting device should bear the name and phone number of the party responsible for the device. No such sign can be placed within 100 feet of an intersection, nor shall any sign be closer than ten feet to the pavement of a roadway. In no event can such signs be placed on a public right-of-way. [See definition for time restrictions.]
(2)
Short duration temporary signs: Short duration temporary signs can be erected in any zoning district for a maximum of two weeks. No more than two signs can be erected on any lot. Such signs shall not exceed six feet in height and sixteen sq. ft. per side, and shall not be more than two sided. Such signs shall be made of water proof material, and must be attached to an independent mounting device. The mounting must be secure to prevent the sign from blowing off of the device. The mounting device or sign should bear the name and phone number of the party responsible for the device. No such sign can be placed within 100 feet of an intersection, nor shall any sign be closer than ten feet from the pavement of the roadway. In no event shall such signs be placed on a public right-of-way. Short duration signs cannot be placed on the same lot more than four times per year.
(h)
Procedures.
(1)
Sign permit: A sign permit is not required for the erection of a weekend sign, or a ground or window sign in the R-1, 2, 3 zoning districts. However, all signs using electrical wiring and connections shall require an electrical permit.
a.
For all other signs other than listed above, a sign permit is required before a ground or wall sign may be erected; and before an existing sign may be enlarged, relocated, or materially improved upon to an extent of 60% of its total replacement value. All signs using electrical wiring and connections shall require an electrical permit.
b.
A sign permit shall be issued by the planning commission when the plans, specifications, and intended use of the applied sign or part thereof conform to the applicable provisions of this Section. The application shall be accompanied by all the information required under subsection (h)(2) and such other information as the planning commission may require.
c.
Each sign application shall contain an agreement to indemnify and hold the county harmless of all damages, demands, or expenses which may in any manner be caused by the sign, or sign's erection, continued existence, or removal. Each applicant shall present to the county upon request a certificate of liability insurance prior to the issuance of a sign permit.
(2)
Application: Applications for sign permits shall be filed by the sign owner or owner's agent with the planning commission upon forms as provided. Any information pertinent to the sign application as may be requested by the planning commission and may include, but not limited to:
a.
The type and purpose of the sign as defined by this section or DCA.
b.
A site plan showing the location of the sign, and construction plan describing the material the sign is to be constructed from.
c.
Elevation drawing showing the height and dimensions of the sign face.
d.
The total construction cost of the sign.
e.
The street address of the property upon which the subject sign is to be located and the proposed location of the sign on the subject property. In the absence of a street address, a method of location acceptable to the DCA shall be used.
f.
The square foot area per sign face and the aggregate square foot area if there is more than one sign face.
g.
The name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s) of the real property upon which the subject sign is to be located.
h.
(Reserved).
i.
The name, address, phone number, and business license number and home jurisdiction of the sign contractor.
j.
(Reserved).
(3)
Expiration date: A sign permit shall become null and void if the sign for which the permit was issued has not been completed within six months after the date of issuance, provided however, that a six month extension of the permit may be granted by the DCA.
(4)
Processing of application: Upon receipt of an application for a sign as permitted under the provisions of this section, the planning commission, shall examine and process the application within fifteen (15) working days. A permit may be denied if the applicant, landowner, or lessee or other party is presently maintaining any sign in violation of the sign provision of this section.
(5)
Fees: No permit should be issued until the appropriate application has been filed with the planning commission and the appropriate fee has been paid which fees shall from time to time be established by the board of commissioners.
(i)
Inspection. In accordance with article VIII, section 44-161(b), of this chpater, enforcement personnel are hereby empowered to enter upon or into a building, structure, or premises upon which a sign is located for the purpose of inspecting the sign, it structural and electrical connections, and to ensure compliance with the provision of this section.
(j)
Appeals and variances.
(1)
Procedure upon denial. Upon denial of an application for a sign permit, the applicant shall be given verbal notice to the applicant in person; or written notice within 15 days stating the reason(s) for denial of the permit. The aggrieved party may appeal any decision as provided in article IX, section 44-185, of this chapter.
(2)
Variances.
a.
Board/commission. Variances may be granted from the provision of this section by the board of commissioners as recommended by the planning commission board in compliance with article IX, section 44-183(b), of this chapter, and shall apply both to signs which are non-conforming as of the effective date of this section as well as the new signs erected thereafter.
b.
Administrative. Administrative variances may be granted by the DCA provided any variance that is granted should conform to the intent and purpose of this sign section.
(k)
Construction and maintenance.
(1)
It shall be unlawful to erect or place any sign which does not conform to the requirements of this section.
(2)
All signs for which a permit is required, together with all their supports, shall be kept in constant repair and unless constructed of galvanized or non-corroding metal shall periodically be given a protective coating. The area immediately in front of all freestanding signs shall be maintained free of high weed and debris.
(3)
The staff of the planning commission may periodically inspect every sign in order to determine that each meets the requirements set forth in this section.
(4)
The owner or entity shall be required to remove or have removed from the premises discarded or unusable paper, sign faces, parts and debris resulting from the changing of the advertising copy or message or maintenance of any sign or sign structure.
(l)
Enforcement.
(1)
Removal.
a.
In accordance with article VIII, section 44-161(b), enforcement personnel may order the removal of any sign in violation of this section. Notice shall be given to the permit holder and/or property owner, then to the owner of the sign; or if the sign owner cannot be found or cannot be determined, notice shall be given to the sign erector or property owner, or any party associated with such sign. If a permit was issued, such notice shall operate to revoke the permit. The removal order shall be issued only after the appropriate party fails to comply with the terms of this section within seven working days after the receipt of written notice of non-compliance from the planning commission, or within ten working days from the mailing of such notice if no return receipt is received indicating acceptance.
b.
An aggrieved party may appeal the removal order within ten (10) working days from the date that the notice was received. Such appeal shall be as provided in article IX, section 44-185, of this chapter. If the sign is not removed within:
1.
Thirty days after the order of removal is delivered or mailed,
2.
Forty-five days from the mailing of such notice if no return receipt is received indicating acceptance, or,
3.
Thirty days after the date any appeal becomes final, thereafter, the enforcement personnel is authorized to remove or cause to be removed the sign and to collect the costs thereof as provided in subsection (3) below.
(2)
Removal without notice. The enforcement personnel or any other agent of McDuffie County having jurisdiction under the circumstances may, upon passage of these sign regulations, remove or direct the removal of any sign in violation of this section, without giving notice to any party, if:
a.
Said sign is upon the public right-of-way or upon other public property.
b.
Said sign poses an immediate safety threat to the life or health of any member of the public.
(3)
Cost of removal. The removal or the cost of same of any sign as provided for in this section shall be the responsibility of the sign owner and without liability to McDuffie County, its officers, agents, servants and employees. If the sign owner cannot be found or cannot be determined, then the costs of removal shall be the responsibility of the sign erector and/or property owner or any other party associated with the placement of the sign. If removed by the county as referenced in this section, and for the purposes of collecting any and all reimbursable cost to the county for such removal; if payment, or satisfactory arrangements to make payment is not made by the property owner, sign erector, or owner within 30 days after the receipt of said statement, the enforcement personnel shall certify the amount thereof for collection to the county attorney. The county shall be afforded all means available to remedy the collection of the reimbursable funds. In the event any signs that are removed remain unclaimed for more than 60 days from the date of removal, the signs may be disposed of in accordance with state law.
(4)
Invalid permits. The enforcement personnel may issue a removal order when it has been determined that a permit was improperly issued as a result of misstatement of fact or fraud, that the sign has not been placed or constructed in compliance with this Section or with the specifications of the application or site plans, that the sign permit has expired or that the sign is otherwise not in compliance with the Section. In the event a sign is not removed after receipt of a removal order, enforcement personnel may institute legal proceedings hereunder against the property owner, sign owner, lessee, sign erector, associated party, or combination thereof.
(5)
Non-conforming signs.
a.
Signs which do not comply with this section and were legally placed before the effective date of this section shall become non-conforming with respect to the requirements set forth herein; however, signs which were illegally erected, established or maintained with respect to the applicable requirements of prior ordinances shall be removed or brought into compliance herewith. Non-conforming signs made of paper, cloth or other non-durable material, all temporary signs other than those permitted therein, and any signs that are not affixed to a building or the ground, or are located within a public right-of-way, may be removed. Upon failure to comply with the requirements of this section, the planning commission may cause the removal of any non-conforming sign at the expense of the owner or associated party.
b.
A non-conforming sign shall not be replaced by another non-conforming sign except that the substitution or interchange of advertising panels, painted boards or demountable material on non-conforming signs shall be permitted. Those signs considered grandfathered upon the passage of zoning shall be governed by the signage requirements for the zoning classification, as designated by the DCA, which most closely approximates its use. [For example, Russell's Bait store on the Washington Road, although a grandfathered commercial use located in a residentially zoned district, for signage purposes, would be considered as Commercial and would therefore have to conform to the signage requirements of a Commercial district for sign limitation purposes.]
c.
Minor repairs and maintenance of non-conforming signs such as repainting, electrical repairs and neon tubing may be permitted. However, no structural repairs or changes in the size or shape of the sign shall be permitted except to make the sign comply with the requirements of the Section.
d.
If a nonconforming sign must be removed due to a county or state road improvement or other project, the planning commission may authorize the relocation of such sign even though the new location may not meet the setbacks, or other provisions of this section.
(6)
Fines and penalties.
a.
Citations. Without limitation, sign erectors or owners, property owners and/or associated parties may be cited for the violation of any provision of this section in accordance with article X, section 44-205, of this chapter.
b.
Penalties. The fine for any one sign found in violation of this section tried upon a citation or upon an accusation shall be as provided in article X, section 44-205, of this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-18-01, Art. VI, § 10(10.1—10.12))
Editor's note— Ord. of Dec. 18, 2001, Art. VI, § 10, repealed § 44-110, in its entirety and enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Prior to amendment, § 44-110 pertained to signage and derived from Ord. of March 23, 1999, Art. VI, § 10.
Sec. 44-111. - Adult entertainment establishment regulations.
(a)
(1)
Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate certain types of businesses including, but not limited to, adult entertainment establishments as defined herein, to the end that the many types of criminal activities frequently engendered by such businesses and the adverse affect on property values and on the public health, safety, and welfare of the county, and on its citizens and property, and on the character and preservation of its neighborhoods and development will be curtailed. This section is not intended as a defacto prohibition of legally protected forms of expression. This section is intended to represent a balancing of competing interests: reduced criminal activity and protection of the neighborhoods and development through the regulation of adult entertainment establishments versus any legally protected fights of adult entertainment establishments and patrons. This section is not intended to allow or license any business, establishment, or activity which would otherwise be unlawful.
(2)
Findings. Based on the experience of other counties and municipalities, including, but not limited to, Atlanta, Georgia; Fulton County, Georgia; Dekalb County, Georgia; Richmond County, Georgia; Floyd County, Georgia; Amarillo, Texas; Austin, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Houston, Texas; Renton, Washington; Phoeniz, Arizona; Augusta, Georgia; LaGrange, Georgia; Dalton, Georgia; Whitfield County, Georgia; Carrollton, Georgia; Smyrna, Georgia; Rome, Georgia; Bartow County, Georgia; and Ft. Lauderdale and Palm Beach, Florida, which experiences are believed to be relevant to the problems faced by McDuffie County, Georgia, the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners takes note of the notorious and self-evident conditions attendant to the commercial exploitation of human sexuality, which do not vary greatly among generally comparable communities within our country. Moreover, it is the findings of the commissioners that public nudity (either partial or total) under certain circumstances, particularly circumstances related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions. Among the acts of criminal behavior identified with nudity and alcohol are disorderly conduct, prostitution, and drug trafficking and use. Among the undesirable community conditions identified with nudity and alcohol are depression of property values in the surrounding neighborhood, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burden on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior hereinabove described, and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of such establishments in particular areas. Therefore the limitation of nude conduct in establishments licensed in the unincorporated limits of the county and prohibiting the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in said establishment is in the public welfare and it is a matter of governmental interest and concern to prevent the occurrence of criminal behavior and undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments which serve alcohol and also allow and/or encourage nudity. Based on these findings, this section is adopted to regulate certain types of businesses and to establish where such activity may or may not be conducted.
(b)
Definitions. As used herein, the following words or phrases shall have the following meanings:
Adult entertainment establishment as used herein, the following words or phrases shall have the following meanings, and the premises on which defined establishments operate on which defined activities occur shall constitute "adult entertainment establishments." Adult entertainment establishments include, but are not limited to:
(1)
Adult bookstore. A business or establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material, or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed material which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(2)
Adult business is either: (1) any business or establishment which is conducted exclusively for the patronage of adults and as to which minors are specifically excluded from patronage thereat either by law or by the operators of such business or establishment; or (2) any business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted where employees or patrons expose specified anatomical areas or engage in specified sexual activities; or (3) any other business or establishment to which the public or any portion thereof is permitted which offers its patrons services or entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(3)
Adult dancing establishment. A business or establishment that features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(4)
Adult motion picture theater. A business or establishment that is used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein, including a business or establishment wherein coin or slug operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other images producing devices are maintained to show images and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on, depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(5)
Adult video store. A business or establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade in video tapes or movies or other reproductions, for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical area or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material, or five percent of its net sales consisting of reproduced materials which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(6)
Bath house or massage parlor. A business or establishment in which services offered include some form of physical contact between employee and patron and in which services offered are characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(7)
Erotic entertainment/dance establishments. A business or establishment including, but not limited to, a nightclub, theater, or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers or entertainers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(8)
Lingerie modeling studio. A business or establishment whose primary business activity consists of live performers exhibiting or modeling lingerie or similar undergarments and are characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(9)
Encounter center or rap establishment. A business, agency or person who, for any form of consideration or gratuity, provides a place where two or more persons may congregate, assemble or associate for the primary purpose of engaging in, describing or discussing specified sexual activities, or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Commissioners. means the commissioners of McDuffie County, Georgia.
Church means a place where persons regularly assemble for religious worship; a body of communicates gathered into church order united under one form of government by the profession of the same faith and the observance of the same ritual and ceremonies; congregation, or organization assembled for religious purposes.
Conviction means an adjudication of guilt, plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime, but shall not include a discharge under provisions of what is commonly called the State of Georgia First Offender Act.
Distance and measurement means the measurement of lineal feet/from the nearest point of the property line of the proposed premises of an adult entertainment establishment to the nearest property line of any church, library, school, college, public park, residence, or hospital. A radius shall be measured from the property line of the proposed premises to the nearest property line of any church, library, school, college, public park, residence or hospital.
Employee means any person engaged to provide or in fact providing services for an adult entertainment establishment to patrons on a regular basis whether for legal consideration or otherwise. For the purpose of this section, independent contractors whose main purpose is to provide entertainment or other services to patrons, including, but not limited to, dancers and waitresses, employed or hired by an adult entertainment establishment shall be considered as employees.
Good moral character. For the purposes of this section shall mean, although not limited to, having no convictions of a felony or crime of moral turpitude within the previous five years. Conviction shall include pleas of nolo contendere or bond forfeiture when charged with such crime.
Minor. For the purposes of this section shall mean any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Park means any lands or facility owned, operated, controlled or managed by county, city, state or federal government or any governmental entity or agency in and upon which recreational activities or places are provided for the recreation and enjoyment of the general public.
Parcel of land means any quantity of land capable of being described by location and boundaries, designated and used or to be used as a unit.
Residence means a house, apartment, mobile home, boarding or roominghouse, duplex, or other multifamily housing, used as a dwelling for humans, or any properties owned therefore.
School means a state, county, city, church school, or other school(s), public or private, that teach the subjects commonly taught in the commons schools of this state, and vocational schools, colleges, post high school learning centers, kindergartens and day care centers for persons of any age.
Specified sexual activities shall include any of the following:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct: sodomy, cunnilingus, fellatio, pedophilia, lesbianism, homosexuality; or
(2)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence; or
(3)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or masturbation; or
(4)
Fondling of the human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breasts so as to arouse or excite the sexual desires of a patron; or
(5)
Sexually oriented torture; or
(6)
Fondling or other sexual contact with an animal so as to arouse or excite the sexual desires of a patron.
Specified anatomical areas shall include any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, or anus; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernible turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
(c)
Regulations. The following regulations apply to all adult entertainment establishments as described herein and located within the unincorporated areas of McDuffie County, Georgia:
(1)
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to employ, admit or permit the admission of minors within a licensed premises.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter or give to any minor any service, materials, device or thing sold or offered for sale by an adult entertainment establishment.
(3)
No adult entertainment establishment shall be located in any zoning district, other than I-1 or I-2 on at least three acres and within the following distances as defined and measured as stated herein:
a.
Within 1,000 feet of an parcel of land upon which any single or multifamily residence or within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land which is either zoned or used for single or multifamily uses or purposes;
b.
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, school, governmentally-owned or operated building, library, civic center, public park, playground, hospital, nursing home or community club;
c.
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which another adult entertainment establishment is located;
d.
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which an establishment selling alcoholic beverages is located;
(4)
No adult entertainment establishment licensee shall employ or contract with any person to provide services or perform in said establishment who is a person not permitted for employment pursuant to this section.
(5)
An adult entertainment establishment licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of two years the names, addresses, dates of birth, photograph, and social security numbers of all employees.
(6)
An adult entertainment establishment shall be closed between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday, on Sunday, and on Christmas Day.
(7)
No booth, screen, partition or other obstruction shall be permitted within the interior of any adult entertainment establishment so as to prevent a clear view throughout the premises, except for separate offices, kitchens, restores, or other areas not frequented by patrons.
(8)
No premises for an adult entertainment establishment shall have any interior connections or doors with any other place of business.
(9)
No adult entertainment establishment shall be operated such that the activity on the interior or the premises is visible from the exterior of the premises.
(10)
No licensee shall permit the use of alcoholic beverages of any kind to be sold, possessed or consumed in or on the premises.
(11)
No licensee shall permit the use of illegal drugs or controlled substances of any kind to be allowed, permitted, used, possessed or sold, and no gambling shall be allowed or permitted in or on the premises.
(12)
No licensee shall permit an employee to expose for public view his or her specified anatomical areas in a lewd or obscene fashion.
(13)
Every, act or omission of an employee constituting a violation of the provisions of this section shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee if such act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee or as a result of the licensee's negligent failure to supervise the employee's conduct.
(14)
No licensee shall publicly display or expose or suffer the public display or exposure, with less than a full opaque covering, of any portion of a person's genitals, pubic area, breasts, or buttocks in a lewd and obscene fashion. All public signs or other forms of advertisement shall comply with this requirement.
(d)
Additional regulations—Adult dancing establishments, erotic entertainment/dance establishments, and lingerie modeling studios. The following additional regulations apply to adult dancing establishments, erotic entertainment/dance establishments and lingerie modeling studios (herein "adult dance establishments") as described herein:
(1)
All live dancing and entertainment shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose which is raised at least two feet from the next highest level of the remainder of the floor.
(2)
All live dancing or entertainment shall occur no closer than ten feet from any patron.
(3)
No dancer, entertainer or employee shall fondle or caress any patron nor allow any patron to fondle or caress any dancer, entertainer or employee so as to arouse or excite the sexual desires of a patron.
(4)
No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or entertainer.
(5)
No dancer or entertainer shall solicit or accept any pay or gratuity directly from any patron nor allow any patron to directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or entertainer.
(6)
All areas of the licensed premises shall be fully lighted at all times when open for business, which shall mean illumination equal to 3.5 footcandles per square foot.
(7)
No licensee shall permit any employee to use artificial devices or inanimate objects to depict any of the prohibited activities described in this section.
(8)
No licensee shall permit an employee to insert an object into her vagina or her or his anal orifice, except for personal hygiene or necessity.
(9)
No licensee shall permit an employee to engage in actual or simulated genital masturbation.
(10)
No licensee shall permit a male employee to exhibit an unclothed erect penis.
(11)
No licensee shall permit an employee to engage in, or simulate bestiality.
(12)
No licensee shall permit an employee to engage in actual or simulated sexual activity with another person.
(13)
No licensee shall permit an employee to sit upon or straddle the leg, legs or body of an patron therein.
(14)
No licensee shall permit or allow a patron to participate in any act or activity upon the licensed premises which an employee is prohibited from performing.
(e)
License required. It shall be unlawful for any person, or legal entity to engage in, conduct or carry on, in or upon any premises within the unincorporated area of McDuffie County any of the adult entertainment establishments defined in this section, without a license so to do. No license so issued shall condone or make legal any activity thereunder if the same is deemed illegal or unlawful under the laws of the State of Georgia or the United States.
(f)
Operation of unlicensed premises unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult entertainment establishment unless such business shall have a currently valid license or shall have made proper application for renewal within the time required thereof under this section, which license shall not be under suspension or permanently or conditionally revoked.
(g)
Application for license.
(1)
Any person or legal entity desiring to obtain a license to operate, engage in, conduct or carry on any adult entertainment establishment shall make application to or with the zoning administrator of McDuffie County, Georgia, or his designated representative. Prior to submitting such application, a nonrefundable fee of $100.00 shall be paid to the planning commission of McDuffie County to defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required by this section.
(2)
The application for license does not authorize the engaging in, operation of, conduct of or carrying on of any adult entertainment establishment.
(3)
All licenses herein shall be a mere grant of privilege to carry on such business during the term of the license subject to all the terms and conditions imposed by this section and related laws, applicable provisions of this section and other ordinances and resolutions of the county relating to such business.
(4)
All licenses hereunder shall have printed on the front these words: "This license is a mere privilege subject to be suspended and/or revoked under the provisions of the Ordinances of McDuffie County."
(5)
A separate license shall be required for each place of business.
(6)
Where the applicant:
a.
Is a corporation, any license shall be applied for by and shall be issued to the corporation and either: (1) the majority shareholder thereof, or (2) a person employed full time in a managing capacity by the corporation;
b.
Is a partnership, any license shall be applied for by and shall be issued to the partnership and either: (1) the managing general partner thereof, or (2) a person employed full time in a managing capacity by the partnership;
c.
Is a sole proprietor, any license shall be applied for by and shall be issued to the sole proprietor if he is working full time in a managing capacity on the premises, and if not, then to the sole proprietor or a person employed full time in a managing capacity by the sole proprietor;
d.
For purposes of this subsection, the words "managing capacity" shall mean the president or chief executive officer or managing or general partner of a corporation or partnership, or a person who has responsibility for management of the operations at the location to be licensed and who is a full time employee of the corporation, partnership, proprietor, or other ownership.
(h)
Application contents; supporting documents.
(1)
Application for license shall be written and on forms supplied by the planning commission of McDuffie County. Such application shall state the name, address, social security number and date of birth of the applicant(s); and the nature and character of the business to be carried on.
(2)
The previous addresses, if any, of the applicant for a period of five years immediately prior to the date of the application and the dates of residence for each.
(3)
The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and color of hair.
(4)
Two photographs of the applicant at least two inches by two inches taken within six months prior to the application.
(5)
Business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for five years immediately proceeding the date of the application.
(6)
If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown in its Articles of Incorporation or Charter, together with the state and date of incorporation, and the names, addresses, dates of birth and social security numbers of each of its current officers and directors as well as all stockholders holding more than five percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership, whether general or limited, the applicant shall set forth the names, residence addresses, dates of birth and social security numbers of the partners. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this subsection pertaining to corporations shall apply.
(7)
Address of the premises to be licensed.
(8)
The name of the owner of the premises and, if leased, a copy of the lease agreement.
(9)
A plat, filed in triplicate, by a registered land surveyor, licensed by the State of Georgia, showing all structures and the location of the proposed premises which shall not be inconsistent with the provisions contained in subsection (c)(3).
(10)
The name, address, social security number and date of birth of any and all persons who have a financial interest of any type in the entity which is applying for the license.
(11)
Any other information reasonably required by the zoning administrator in order to verify the information furnished by the applicant to obtain a license.
(12)
Should the requirements of this section dictate that more than one individual and/or entity apply for and a license issue to such applicants, then all such applicants shall, on such application, designate the name, address and telephone number of an individual resident of McDuffie County, Georgia to act as agent for all applicant(s)/licensee(s) for the purpose of receiving communications and notices under this section. Proof of delivery to said agent shall be conclusive proof of receipt by a licensee(s) of such notice, process or information.
(13)
Each application must be complete in its entirety before being accepted by the county for filing and processing.
(14)
All applicants for licenses as to any premises which is to be subsequently renovated or improved shall furnish in triplicate plans and renderings of the premises as it is to exist at the time of opening. Any premises to be constructed or renovated prior to opening shall be constricted, renovated or built so as to be equal to and compatible with the surrounding neighborhood or better. The premises shall comply with all building, health and similar county codes.
(15)
Each applicant for an adult entertainment establishment license shall be verified and acknowledged under oath to be true and correct by:
a.
If the applicant is an individual, the individual;
b.
If by a partnership, by the manager or general partner;
c.
If a corporation, by the president of the corporation;
d.
If any other organization or association, by the chief administrative official.
(i)
Notice of intent to engage in business.
(1)
All applicants for licenses thereunder shall give notice that an application has been filed and of the purpose of making such application by publication of an advertisement once a week for four consecutive weeks prior to the date of consideration of the application by the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners in the newspaper in which legal advertisements are published. The first advertisement shall not appear more than 40 days prior to the date of such consideration. The advertisement shall be of type not smaller than ten point capital and lower case and shall be at least a one-inch column. The advertisement shall appear on the same days as legal advertisements are regularly published.
(2)
The notice shall contain a particular description of the location of the proposed business, the name of the applicant(s), the date, time and place of hearing, and a statement that any legal objections to the issuance must be made at or prior to the time of hearing, and, if prior to the time of hearing, must be in writing and received by the office of the planning commission on or before the date and time of hearing.
(3)
Applicants shall provide proof of such notice by providing the planning commission, prior to the time of the hearing on license issuance, the affidavit of the publisher of the newspaper in which said notice was published, which affidavit shall reflect the content of the notice and the dates of publishing.
(4)
The applicant shall cause to be placed upon the location of the proposed business a sign or signs stating the following:
McDuffie County Adult Entertainment License Applied For
A hearing before the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners shall be held
on the _____ day of ________, 19/20 _____, at _____:_____ o'clock (a.m./p.m.)
in the Grand Jury Room at the McDuffie County Courthouse,
337 Main Street, Thomson, Georgia. All interested persons take notice.
The sign or signs shall be at least 18 inches by 24 inches in size and shall face toward all public streets, sidewalk, or other public property which adjoin or adjoins the location so as to be clearly visible by persons using such public area. The sign shall be posted on the property from the date of the first publication of the legal advertisement through the date of consideration by the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners.
(j)
Application; investigation; issuance. The zoning administrator shall have a reasonable time, not to exceed 45 days, to investigate the application and the background of the applicant(s) following the acceptance and filing of the completed application. Upon completion of the investigation, the county commission may, upon two readings, grant the license if the commission finds:
(1)
The application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this section.
(2)
The applicant has not made a material misrepresentation in the application.
(3)
The applicant has fully cooperated in the investigation of the application.
(4)
The applicant, [if an individual, or any officers or directors or shareholders holding more than five percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation, if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership,] has not been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of any crime involving sexual assault, sexual battery, prostitution, rape, sexual offenses against children, unnatural sex acts, public indecency, or any other sex act, whether attempted or consummated, prohibited by law for which (a) less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; (b) less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; (c) less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month period.
(5)
The applicant, if an individual, or any officers or directors or shareholders holding more than five percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation, if the applicant is a corporation, or any of the partners, including limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership, has not, during the past ten years, had an adult entertainment establishment license or other similar license or permit denied or revoked in this county or any other local governmental jurisdiction located within or without this state prior to the date of application.
(6)
The building, structure, equipment, or location of such business, as proposed by applicant, would comply with all applicable distance provisions of this section and would qualify to receive a certificate of occupancy.
(7)
The applicant is at least twenty-one years of age.
(8)
That on the date the business for which a license is required herein commences and thereafter, there will be a responsible person on the premises to act as manager at all time during which the business is open.
(9)
Notwithstanding the above, no license shall be issued to an applicant if within 12 months immediately preceding the filing of an application the same applicant for a license or renewal has been rejected for any location, if such rejection was based upon the applicant's failure to meet the terms of this section applicable to the applicant as opposed to rejection for reasons related to the location itself.
(10)
An annual license fee, established by resolution of the county and prorated on a calendar month basis, is paid to the planning commission of McDuffie County. Said annual license fee is hereby resolved to be $2,000.00.
(k)
License renewal. Licenses for adult entertainment establishments shall be renewed on a calendar year basis provided that the licensee continues to meet the requirements set out in this section. The renewal fee for the adult entertainment establishment license shall be established by resolution of the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners. Said renewal fee is hereby resolved to the $2,000.00. Renewal applications shall be submitted by November 15 of each year prior to January 1 of the year for which such license is requested.
(l)
License nontransferable. No adult entertainment establishment license may be sold, transferred or assigned by a licensee, or by operation of law, to any other person or persons. Any such sale, transfer or assignment, or attempted sale, transfer or assignment, shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary, surrender of such license and such license shall thereafter be null and void; provided and excepting, however, that is the licensee is a partnership or corporation, and one or more of the partners or shareholders, as the case may be, should die, one or more of surviving partners or shareholders who were partners or shareholders at the time of issuance of the license may acquire, by purchase or otherwise, the interest of the deceased partner or shareholder without affecting a surrender or termination of such license, and in such case, the licensee shall immediately notify the zoning administrator of McDuffie County. An adult entertainment establishment license issued to a corporation shall be deemed terminated and void when either any outstanding stock of the corporation is sold, transferred or assigned after the issuance of a license, or any stock authorized but not issued at the time of the granting of a license hereunder is thereafter issued and sold, transferred or assigned.
(m)
Change of location. No licensee shall change the location of the establishment without obtaining a new license.
(n)
Change of name. No licensee shall advertise, operate, conduct, manage, engage in, or carry on an adult entertainment establishment under any name other than his name and the name of the business as specified on his licensee.
(o)
Modifications of licensed premises. After issuance of any license, no change in the location of the building within the premises, customer entry locations, or other changes shall be made which would affect compliance with any distance or other requirement of this section.
(p)
Persons prohibited as licensees.
(1)
No license provided for by this section shall be issued to or held by:
a.
An applicant who has not paid all required fees and taxes for a business at that location or property taxes;
b.
Any person who is not of good moral character;
c.
Any corporation, any of whose officers, directors or stockholders holding over five percent of the outstanding issued shares of capitol stock are not of good moral character;
d.
Any partnership or association, any of whose officers or members holding more than five percent interest therein are not of good moral character;
e.
Any person employing, assisted by or financed in whole or in part by any person who is not of good moral character;
f.
Any applicant who is not qualified to hold and conduct a business according to the laws of the United States, the State of Georgia or McDuffie County.
(2)
Should there be a sufficient number of current licenses to meet the needs and desire of the inhabitants of the county, no new licenses shall be issued. In determining the needs and desires of the inhabitants, the standard of review shall be that the market is virtually unrestrained as defined in Young v. American Mini Theaters, Inc., 427 U.S. 50.
(q)
License, refusal. If the zoning administrator, following investigation of the applicant, deems that the applicant does not fulfill the requirements as set forth in this section, he shall notify the applicant(s) of such decision in writing and the basis thereof. Any such decision shall be final unless an appeal is filed with and to the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners by any aggrieved party on or before ten days of the date of the decision of the zoning administrator. A hearing by the commissioners of the appeal shall occur within 30 days of its filing at a regular or special meeting of the county commission.
(r)
Suspension; revocation; appeal; violations/penalties; service of notice.
(1)
Suspension. The zoning administrator shall suspend a license for period of 180 days if he determines that a licensee or an employee has violated any sections of this section. If the zoning administrator deems a license suspension appropriate, he shall so notify the licensee of such decision in writing and the basis thereof. Such suspension shall take effect ten days following the zoning administrator's notification unless an appeal is filed with and to the county commission by the aggrieved party on or before ten days of the date of receipt by the aggrieved party of the decision of the zoning administrator. A hearing by the commission of the appeal shall occur within 30 days of its filing in a regular or special meeting of the commission's ruling on the licensee's appeal.
(2)
Revocation.
a.
The zoning administrator shall revoke a license if a cause for suspension occurs and the license has been suspended within the past 12 months.
b.
The planning administrator shall also revoke a license if he determines that:
1.
A licensee gave false or misleading information in the materials submitted during the application process.
2.
A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended.
3.
A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act prohibited by this section to occur in or on the licensed premises.
4.
The owner or operator of the licensed establishment knowingly allowed a person under 18 years of age to enter the establishment.
c.
If the zoning administrator deems a license revocation appropriate, he shall so notify the licensee of such decision in writing and the basis thereof. Such revocation shall take effect ten days following the zoning administrator's serving of his written decision upon the licensee unless an appeal is filed with and to the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners by the aggrieved party on or before ten days of the date of receipt by the aggrieved party of the decision of the zoning administrator. A hearing by the commission on the decision shall occur within 30 days of its filing in a regular or special meeting of the commission. Revocation shall continue for 12 consecutive months from the date the revocation becomes effective.
(3)
Appeal procedure. An applicant or licensee who has timely flied an appeal with the commission as allowed by this section shall be entitled to a hearing before the county commission. At the time set for the hearing, the commission shall receive all relevant testimony in evidence from county staff or interested parties, and from the licensee or employee. In all hearings pursuant to this section, the following procedures shall apply:
a.
The clerk of McDuffie County Board of Commissioners shall read or cause to be read the charges and specifications against the charged parry. He/she shall then read or cause to be read any response filed by the charged party.
b.
The commission shall hear the evidence upon the charges and specifications as filed against the charged party and shall not consider any additional evidence beyond the scope of the charges and may exclude evidence which is purely cumulative.
c.
The order of proof shall be as follows: The county representative shall present his evidence in support of the charges; the charged parry shall then present his evidence. Evidence of each party may be supported by submission of pertinent documents. Each party shall be allowed to present pertinent rebuttal evidence.
d.
The charged party and county may be represented by counsel, and may present, examine and cross-examine witnesses. Additionally, the county commission may interrogate all parties and witnesses to obtain necessary information.
(4)
Violations and penalties.
a.
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be punishable by fines not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation, or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
b.
Should any license be revoked or suspended, all signs indicating that such business is conducted on the premises shall be removed from the premises during the period of revocation or suspension.
c.
The violation of provisions of this section by any person may be enjoined by instituting appropriate proceedings for injunction in any court of competent jurisdiction. Such action may be maintained notwithstanding that other adequate remedies at law exist.
(5)
Service of notice.
a.
Any notice required to be given under this section to any applicant, licensee or employee may be given either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address as specified in the application for license/permit, or such updated address which may have subsequently been provided in writing to the zoning administrator. Notices mailed as described above shall be deemed on the third day subsequent to their deposit in the United States mail.
b.
It shall be the duty of each applicant, licensee and employee to furnish notice to the zoning administrator in writing of any change of mailing address.
(s)
Adult entertainment establishment employees.
(1)
Qualifications:
a.
Employees of an adult entertainment establishment shall be not less than 18 years of age. No person who has been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of any crime involving sexual assault, sexual battery, prostitution, rape, sexual offenses against children, unnatural sex acts, public indecency, or any other sex act, whether attempted or consummated, prohibited by law for which (a) less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; (b) less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; (c) less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction, whichever is the later offenses occurring within any 24-month period shall be employed by an adult entertainment establishment.
b.
No person who is convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of any of the above-noted crimes while employed in an adult entertainment establishment shall thereafter work on any premises requiring a license under this section for the applicable time period described above.
c.
Application for permit shall be written and on forms supplied by the office of the zoning administrator of McDuffie County. Such application shall state the name, address, social security number and date of birth of the applicant, the name and address of the employer, the name and address of the place of employment and any other information reasonably required by the zoning administrator in verifying the fight of the applicant to obtain a permit, including a set of fingerprints on regular sheriff's department or United Department of Justice forms.
(2)
Approval for employment.
a.
A permit to work in or be employed by an adult entertainment establishment shall be required for all employees thereof.
b.
No person requiring a permit may be employed by or work in an establishment until such person has filed an application, paid the fee to and obtain a work permit from the zoning administrator of McDuffie County. The zoning administrator shall immediately issue said permit upon the filing of an application and payment of the fee, which permit shall be conditional and subject to revocation upon the determination by the zoning administrator following investigation of the applicant that the applicant is not qualified to be an employee under this section. Upon such determination the zoning administrator shall notify the applicant of such decision in writing and the basis thereof. Any such decision shall be final and revocation shall become effective unless an appeal is filed with and to the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners by the aggrieved party on or before ten days of the date of receipt by the aggrieved party of the decision of the zoning administrator. A hearing by the commission of the appeal shall occur within 30 days of its filing at a regular or special meeting of the commissioners.
c.
Any permit for employment issued hereunder shall expire 12 months from the date of issuance unless earlier revoked. A nonrefundable annual fee of $50.00 shall be paid to the planning commission of McDuffie County to defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required by this section.
d.
It shall be the duty of all licenses of an adult entertainment establishment to file with the zoning administrator of McDuffie County the names of all employees with their home addresses, home telephone numbers, dates of birth, social security numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of employees must be filed with the zoning administrator of McDuffie County within three days from the date of any such change.
e.
For the purpose of this section, independent contractors shall be deemed employees and shall be licensed as employees, regardless of the business relationship with the owner or license of an adult entertainment establishment.
f.
Employees holding permits issued pursuant to the section shall at all times during their working hours have said permits available for inspection at the premises.
(Ord. of 5-18-99, §§ 1—19)
Sec. 44-112. - Wireless facilities and antennas.
(a)
Purpose and compliance.
(1)
O.C.G.A. §§ 32-4-929(a)(10) and 32-4-42(6) authorizes McDuffie County, Georgia, hereafter "the county", to establish reasonable regulations for the installation, construction, maintenance, renewal, removal, and relocation of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers, traffic and other signals, and other equipment, facilities, or appliances in, on, along, over, or under the public roads of the county. Further, 47 U.S.C. § 253(c) provides that the county has authority to manage its public rights-of-way. Finally, the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act, O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 66C (the "SWFAA"), addresses the placement of small wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way of the county.
(2)
The county finds it is in the best interest of the county and its residents and businesses to establish requirements, specifications, and reasonable conditions regarding placement of small wireless facilities, poles in the public rights-of-way. These requirements, specifications, and conditions are adopted in order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the residents and businesses of the county and to reasonably manage and protect the public rights-of-way and its uses in the county.
(3)
The objective of this section is to (i) implement the SWFAA; and (ii) ensure use of the public rights-of-way is consistent with the design, appearance and other features of nearby land uses, protects the integrity of historic, cultural and scenic resources and does not harm residents' quality of life.
(b)
Definitions. Unless defined below, terms used in this section shall have the meanings given them in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-2.
(c)
Permits.
(1)
A permit is required to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right-of-way. A permit is not required to perform the activities described in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(e) or (f).
(2)
Any person seeking to collocate a small wireless facility in the public right-of-way or to install, modify, or replace a pole or a decorative pole in the public right of way shall submit an application to the county planning commission for a permit. Applications are available from the county planning commission. The application template is included as exhibit A to the ordinance from which this section derived. Any material change to information contained in an application shall be submitted in writing to the county planning commission within 30 days after the events necessitating the change.
(3)
Each application for a permit shall include the maximum application fees permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(1)—(3). Such maximum application fees shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2021, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
(4)
The county planning commission shall review applications for permits according to the timelines and using the procedures identified in O.C.G.A. §§ 36-66C-7 and 36-66C-13.
(5)
Applications for permits shall be approved except as follows:
a.
In order to receive a permit to install a pole or replace a decorative pole, the applicant must have determined after diligent investigation that it cannot meet the service objectives of the permit by collocating on an existing pole or support structure on which:
1.
The applicant has the right to collocate subject to reasonable terms and conditions; and
2.
Such collocation would not impose technical limitations or significant additional costs. The applicant shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
b.
The county planning commission may deny an application for a permit upon any of the conditions identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(j).
c.
For applications for new poles in the public right-of-way in areas zoned for residential use, the county planning commission may propose an alternate location in the public right-of-way within 100 feet of the location set forth in the application, and the wireless provider shall use the county planning commission's proposed alternate location unless the location imposes technical limits or significant additional costs. The wireless provider shall certify that it has made such a determination in good faith, based on the assessment of a licensed engineer, and it shall provide a written summary of the basis for such determination.
(6)
A permit issued under this section shall authorize such person to occupy the public rights-of-way to (i) collocate a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole or a support structure that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(3) or on or adjacent to a decorative pole in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-12; and (ii) install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole for collocation of a small wireless facility that does not exceed the limitations set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h)(1) and (h)(2).
(7)
Upon the issuance of a permit under this section, and on each anniversary of such issuance, every person issued a permit shall submit to the county the maximum annual payments permitted under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(a)(4) and (a)(5); provided, however, that if such person removes its small wireless facilities form the public rights-of-way pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e), then such person shall be responsible for the pro rata portion of the annual payment based on the number of days of occupation since the last annual payment. Upon making such pro rata payment and removal of the small wireless facilities, the person's annual payment obligations under this section shall cease as of the date of the actual removal. The maximum annual payments shall automatically increase on January 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2021, as provided under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(b).
(8)
Any person issued a permit shall pay the fees identified in O.C.G.A. § 36- 66C-5(a)(6) and (a)(7), as applicable.
(9)
The county may revoke a permit issued pursuant to this section if the wireless provider or its equipment placed in the public right-of-way under that permit subsequently is not in compliance with any provision of this section or the Georgia Streamlining Wireless Facilities and Antennas Act. Upon revocation, the county may proceed according to subsection (c)(10).
(10)
If a wireless provider occupies the public rights-of-way without obtaining a permit required by this section or without complying with the SWFAA, then the county may, at the sole discretion of the county, restore the right-of-way, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the county, to its condition prior to the unpermitted collocation or installation and to charge the responsible wireless provider the reasonable, documented cost of the county in doing so, plus a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00. The county may suspend the ability of the wireless provider to receive any new permits from the county under this section until the wireless provider has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the county may not suspend such ability of any applicant that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(11)
All accepted applications for permits shall be publicly available subject to the limitations identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-6(c).
(12)
An applicant may file a consolidated application related to multiple small wireless facilities, poles or decorative poles so long as such consolidated application meets the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-13.
(13)
Activities authorized under a permit shall be completed within the timelines provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2).
(14)
Issuance of a permit authorizes the applicant to (i) undertake the collocation, installation, modification or replacement approved by the permit and (ii) operate and maintain the small wireless facilities and any associated pole covered by the permit for a period of ten years.
(15)
Permits shall be renewed following the expiration of the term identified in subsection (c)(14) upon the terms and conditions identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(k)(2)(B).
(16)
If an application for a permit seeks to collocate small wireless facilities on authority poles in the public rights of way, then the county shall, within 60 days of receipt of the completed application, (i) provide a good faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to enable the authority pole to support the proposed facility; or (ii) notify the wireless provider that the wireless provider will be required to perform the make-ready work. Any make-ready work performed by the county shall be completed pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(n).
(d)
Removal; relocation; reconditioning; replacement; abandonment.
(1)
A person may remove its small wireless facilities from the public rights-of-way according to the procedures of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-5(e).
(2)
In the event of a removal under subsection (d)(1), the right-of-way shall be, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the county, restored to its condition prior to the removal. If a person fails to return the right of way, to the extent practicable in the reasonable judgment of the county, to its condition prior to the removal within 90 days of the removal, the county may, at the sole discretion of the county, restore the right of way to such condition and charge the person the county's reasonable, documented cost of removal and restoration, plus a penalty not to exceed $500.00. The county may suspend the ability of the person to receive any new permits under this section until the person has paid the amount assessed for such restoration costs and the penalty assessed, if any; provided, however, that the county will not suspend such ability of any person that has deposited the amount in controversy in escrow pending an adjudication of the merits of the dispute by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(3)
If, in the reasonable exercise of police powers, the county determines (i) a pole or support structure unreasonably interferes with the widening, repair, reconstruction, or relocation of a public road or highway; or (ii) relocation of poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities is required as a result of a public project, the wireless provider shall relocate such poles, support structures, or small wireless facilities pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(l). If the wireless provider fails to relocate a pole, support structure or small wireless facility or fails to provide a written good faith estimate of the time needed to relocate the pole, support structure or small wireless within the time period prescribed in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(l), the county make take the actions authorized by O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(o), in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
(4)
The county shall recondition and replace authority poles consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m). Wireless providers shall accommodate and cooperate with reconditioning and replacement consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(m).
(5)
A wireless provider must notify the county of its decision to abandon any small wireless facility, support structure or pole pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p)(1). The wireless provider shall perform all acts and duties identified in O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) regarding abandonment. The county may take all actions and exercise all powers authorized under O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(p) upon abandonment, in addition to any other powers under applicable law.
(e)
Standards.
(1)
Small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities may be placed in the public right-of-way as a permitted use (i) upon a receipt of a permit under this section; (ii) subject to applicable codes; and (iii) so long as such small wireless facilities and new, modified, or replacement poles to be used for collocation of small wireless facilities comply with the appropriate provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-7(h).
(2)
A decorative pole should only be located where an existing pole can be removed and replaced, or at a new location where the county has identified that a streetlight is necessary.
(3)
Unless it is determined that another design is less intrusive, or placement is required under applicable law, small wireless facilities shall be concealed as follows:
a.
Antennas located at the top of poles and support structures shall be incorporated into the pole or support structure, or placed within shrouds of a size such that the antenna appears to be part of the pole or support structure.
b.
Antennas placed elsewhere on a pole or support structure shall be integrated into the pole or support structure, or be designed and placed to minimize visual impacts.
c.
Radio units or equipment cabinets holding radio units and mounted on a pole shall be placed as high as possible, located to avoid interfering with, or creating any hazard to, any other use of the public rights of way, and located on one side of the pole. Unless the radio units or equipment cabinets can be concealed by appropriate traffic signage, radio units or equipment cabinets mounted below the communications space on poles shall be designed so that the largest dimension is vertical, and the width is such that the radio units or equipment cabinets are minimally visible from the opposite side of the pole on which they are placed.
d.
Wiring and cabling shall be neat and concealed within or flush to the pole or support structure, ensuring concealment of these components to the greatest extent possible.
(4)
Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility within a historic district, and may place or replace a pole within a historic district, only upon satisfaction of the following: (i) issuance of a permit under this section; and (ii) compliance with applicable codes.
(5)
Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, an applicant may collocate a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or may replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, in the event the existing decorative pole will not structurally support the attachment, only upon satisfaction of the following: (i) issuance of a permit under this section; and (ii) compliance with applicable codes.
(Ord. No. 19-03, § 1, 9-17-19)
Secs. 44-113—130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - RESERVED[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Jun. 6, 2007, repealed ch. 44, art. VII, §§ 44-131—44-143, in its entirety. New provisions have been adopted and set out in chapter 74. Prior to amendment, art. VII pertained to planned development requirements and derived from an ordinance adopted Mar. 23, 1999, Art. VII, §§ 1—13.

Secs. 44-131—44-160. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 44-161. - Development code administrator.
(a)
Duties and powers. The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the development code administrator who shall have authority to carry out those duties necessary to interpret, administer, and enforce this chapter. The development code administrator, and his or her agent or staff, shall assist applicants in the preparation of development applications; understand the specific requirements of the code; coordinate required meetings and hearings; issue permits and notices; review development applications and prepare staff reviews for the planning commission (board), and enforce the code and perform property inspections as applicable.
(b)
Enforcement and remedies. This chapter has been adopted pursuant to the 1983 Constitution of the State of Georgia. Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute an offense punishable in magistrate court. The development code administrator shall be responsible for ensuring enforcement of this chapter in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
Inspections and investigations. The development code administrator or his/her designated agent may conduct regular site inspections of all approved development activities to monitor and document compliance with this chapter and any special approval conditions. If the development code administrator has received a reported complaint regarding an alleged violation of this chapter, the complaint shall be investigated and the extent of the alleged violation documented in writing.
(2)
Notice. Once a violation has been confirmed through on-site investigation, the development code administrator shall make a good faith effort to contact the property owner in writing to notify him/her of the nature of the violation and note the options available for addressing the violation. If the property owner cannot be contacted, or if contacted, the property owner does not correct the violation, the development code administrator shall send a written notice of the violation to the property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested. The official violation notice shall contain the following information:
a.
The date of the notice;
b.
An explanation of the nature of the violation that has been documented;
c.
A reference to the specific provisions or requirements of the ordinance or permit approval conditions that have been violated;
d.
A statement that the violation should be corrected within 30 days of the date of the notice to avoid further legal action;
e.
An explanation of the corrective measures or options necessary to mitigate or correct the violation;
f.
A statement of the legal actions that will be pursued by the county if the violation is not remedied.
(3)
Failure to correct violation. If, within 30 days of the date of the official notice, the violation has not been corrected, the development code administrator shall notify the county attorney of the violation, and request any appropriate legal action.
(4)
Penalties. Upon conviction of a violation of any provision of this chapter, the violating party or parties shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person violating any provision(s) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000.00 for each violation. Each day that a violation continues after the date of official violation notice shall be considered a separate violation.
(c)
Development review and coordination. The development code administrator, and his or her agent or staff, may prepare a staff report on each major development application with the assistance and consultation of county departments and/or other affected and interested in public agencies. All staff reports should include at the minimum an analysis of:
(1)
Estimated increases in school enrollment as a result of proposed residential development.
(2)
Estimated increases in the volume of traffic and anticipated effects on the existing street/road system.
(3)
Estimated increase in commercial business or employment growth.
(4)
Effect on law enforcement as it relates to response time, manpower, the need for additional facilities and major capital equipment, or other resources.
(5)
Effect on fire protection as it relates to response time, manpower, fire flows, the need for additional facilities and major capital equipment, or other resources.
(6)
Effect on the environment and natural resources including but not limited to soils, groundwater, surface water, air quality, or other sensitive resources deemed applicable by the development code administrator.
(7)
Effect on public water and sewer systems.
(8)
Effect on recreational facilities and impact on recreational opportunities.
(9)
Effect on affordable housing opportunity.
The development code administrator may convene a development review committee consisting of personnel from affected county departments and public agencies involved in the preparation of an impact report of each major development application. Development review conferences should be held at least ten working days prior to the public hearing at which the development application shall be presented. Findings and recommendations of the staff report shall be discussed and/or reiterated during the development review conference to affirm documented research. The applicant should be present during this meeting, and may be permitted to consult with members of the review committee regarding technical aspects of the findings. The applicant shall be made aware of the meeting at least ten calendar days in advance by regular mail.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VIII, § 1)
Sec. 44-162. - Planning commission (board).
The combined Thomson-McDuffie County Planning Commission is hereby established. The organization and rules of conduct are as follows:
(1)
Organization. The planning commission board shall be organized as follows:
a.
Membership. The planning commission shall consist of six members. The board will be comprised of two City of Thomson resident members appointed by the Thomson City Council, two resident members of the Town of Dearing appointed by the Dearing Town Council, and two McDuffie County resident members appointed by the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners.
b.
Terms of office. Three members shall be appointed for a term of two years and three members shall be appointed for a term of four years. Each jurisdiction will appoint one member to a two year term and one member to a four year term. Thereafter, all appointments shall be made for terms of four years each. When vacancies occur prior to the expiration of a regular term, they shall be filled in the same manner as a regular appointments, but shall serve only until the expiration of the term in which the vacancy occurred.
c.
Officers. The members shall elect from among their number a chairman and vice-chairman to serve for a term of one year at the first meeting of each calendar year. When vacancies of the chairman or vice-chairman occur prior to the expiration of a regular term, they shall be filled in the same manner as a regular appointments, but shall serve only until the expiration of the term in which the vacancy occurred.
d.
Compensation. In the performance of its duties, the planning commission board members may incur such reimbursed expenses as shall be authorized by the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners, Thomson City Council, or Dearing Town Council. Each member may receive compensation for their services at a rate set and approved by their governing body.
(2)
Jurisdiction. The planning commission board shall have the following duties and powers:
a.
To review applications for changes to zoning classifications (i.e. zoning changes), to hear after prescribed public notice, public testimony regarding the proposed changes; to review the current comprehensive plan and future land use map, as applicable; to consider the effect of the proposal upon the public welfare; and to render a written recommendation to the appropriate governing body; the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners, Thomson City Council, or Dearing Town Council regarding proposed amendments to the comprehensive plan, land development code, official zoning map, or other amendments to these regulations.
b.
To review proposed land use compatibility measures recommended by the development code administrator during administrative review to mitigate potential impacts between proposed and existing land uses. The planning commission may affirm or modify the recommended land use compatibility mitigation measures as is necessary to advance the objectives of this chapter.
c.
To hear and decide special exceptions to the requirements of these regulations which the planning commission board shall recommend to the appropriate governing body; the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners, Thomson City Council, or Dearing Town Council in accordance with these regulations. In granting a special exception or modification, the board of commissioners should determine that:
1.
The use meets or exceeds all required conditions.
2.
The use is not detrimental to the public health or general welfare.
3.
The use is appropriately located with respect to transportation facilities, water supply, fire and police protection, waste disposal, and similar services.
4.
The use will not violate neighborhood character nor adversely affect surrounding land uses.
d.
To recommend variances from the terms of these regulations as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement will, in an individual case(s), result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit and intent of these regulations shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the board that:
1.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions that are peculiar to the particular property in question because of its size, shape, or topography.
2.
The application of these regulations to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship that is inconsistent with the spirit and intent of this chapter.
3.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of these regulations.
4.
The requested relief is necessary to ensure that the property owner is entitled to the same basic development rights and privileges as other similarly zoned properties and does not grant the applicant special rights and privileges to which other similarly zoned property owners are not also entitled.
5.
The proposed relief will grant the minimum deviation from the requirements of this chapter that is necessary to mitigate the hardship.
6.
Mere inconvenience to the property owner shall not constitute justification for the granting of an application, nor shall the number or proponents or opponents in itself be a singular factor in the granting or denying an application.
(3)
Procedural rules. The procedural rules for the planning commission (board) shall be as follows:
a.
Meetings. Each meeting of the planning commission (board) shall be held on the first Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m., unless there is a conflicting holiday, whereby the regular meeting will take place on the following Tuesday. Should there be no agenda for the board to address, the board shall not be required to meet. The planning commission (board) may schedule such special meetings or work sessions as may be deemed necessary by the chairman to conduct its business. All meetings shall comply with the Georgia Open and Public Meetings Act (O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1) of 1988, and public notice as to the date, time and location shall be posted accordingly.
b.
Rules. The planning commission (board) shall have the power to adopt all rules necessary for the transaction of its business and for carrying out the powers granted to it.
c.
Voting. The concurring vote of a majority of the board members at a meeting attended by at least four board members shall be necessary to make any applicable decision upon which the planning commission (board) is required to determine. All votes shall be cast according to a voice vote unless so noted as being unanimously approved.
d.
Record of meetings. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and shall maintain records of its official actions. Records of meetings shall be filed and maintained in the office of the planning and zoning administrator, and shall be public record(s).
e.
Absences. Any time there are three consecutive absences, or five absences during any 12-month period, by a planning commission board member, that commissioner's term is subject to immediate expiration by the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners, Thomson City Council, or Dearing Town Council, and the planning and zoning administrator shall notify the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners, Thomson City Council, or Dearing Town Council in writing of the attendance record of the subject planning commission (board) member and why a new appointment is required.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VIII, § 2; Ord. No. 19-04, § 1, 11-19-19)
Sec. 44-163. - Open meetings and public hearings (calling and conduct).
(a)
Meetings, public hearings, and findings of fact. All meetings, public hearings, and presentations of findings of fact concerning any action(s) promulgated under this chapter shall be submitted before the following bodies accordingly:
(1)
Planning commission. All applicants seeking an amendment to the development code text, to the official zoning map (i.e., zoning changes), or, to the future land use map, variance from the requirements of the development code or, approval of a preliminary plat/plan or a final plat/plan shall have an opportunity to present facts, reports, and/or evidence to the planning commission board at the time of either their regularly scheduled meeting, or at a special meeting. At any regular or special meeting concerning these matters, the planning commission board shall study and take into consideration factors specified in article I, section 44-3, and any staff reports when considering variances, and will determine if the application for development activity or variance meets the requirement of this chapter, and other county ordinances, as applicable. The planning commission shall make a written record of its recommendations on the proposed application and, unless appealed, forward a copy of such recommendation to the board of commissioners to render a final decision on approval or disapproval.
(2)
Board of commissioners. All applicants imposed of a special exception condition, seeking an amendment to the development code text, to the zoning map, to the future land use map, or a variance from the requirements of the development code shall have an opportunity to present facts, reports, and/or evidence to the board of commissioners at a public hearing or meeting. At any public hearing or meeting concerning such matters, the board of commissioners shall study and take into consideration factors specified in article I, section 44-3. The board of commissioners shall hold and conduct, as appropriate to the requirements of this chapter, a public hearings/meeting in compliance with the Georgia Open Meetings Act of 1988 (O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1), and the Georgia Zoning Procedures Act of 1986 (O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5). The board of commissioners, taking into consideration the findings and recommendations of the planning commission (board), shall render a final decision or action on the applicable development activity being petitioned before them. Appeals of final decisions of the board of commissioners may be initiated within 30 days by appealing such decision to the superior court of McDuffie County as prescribed in article IX, section 44-185(d).
(b)
Notice of public hearing. At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of a scheduled public hearing for variance, imposition of special exceptions or conditions, an amendment to the official zoning map, the future land use map, or the development code text, the planning commission shall cause to be published within a newspaper of general circulation within McDuffie County (or where the county government's legal advertisements customarily appear) a notice stating the time, place, and purpose of any public hearing. For any application seeking a zoning decision, other than one initiated by McDuffie County, such notice shall include at the minimum:
(1)
The location of the property.
(2)
The present zoning classification of the property.
(3)
The proposed zoning classification of the property.
(4)
For applicants imposed of a special exception or condition, requesting an amendment to the zoning map, or the future land use map, or variance to the requirements of the development code; the posting of a sign on the affected property containing the aforesaid information in this paragraph is required. The sign shall be placed by the planning commission in a conspicuous location and be posted not less than 15 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(c)
Conduct of open meetings and public hearing. All open meetings and public hearings governed by the planning commission and the board of commissioners shall be conducted under the following rules of order, as recognized by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-5:
(1)
All persons who wish to address the planning commission, or board of commissioners shall first record their names and residence addresses on a form to be provided by the county prior to the commencement of the hearing.
(2)
The secretary or development code administrator will read each proposed application under consideration in the order in which they were filed. In the case of board of commissioner review, he/she shall state the recommendation of the planning commission board. In addition he/she may also summarize the departmental reviews that pertain, prior to receiving public input.
(3)
Ten minutes shall be given to the proponents and ten minutes to the opponents of each proposed zoning decision application before either board for presentation of data, evidence, and opinion addressing the proposed application. An extension of time may be approved by a majority of the members of the board.
(4)
Each speaker shall speak only to the merits of the proposed application under consideration and shall address their remarks only to the planning commission chairman, or the chairman of the board of commissioners. Any discussion that is not relevant to the presentation of objective facts may be limited or repudiated by the Chair, if the speaker, after first being cautioned, continues to violate this rule may be ruled out-of-order and thereafter be prohibited from addressing the chair or board.
(5)
Only those persons who registered to speak prior to the commencement of the hearing shall be entitled to speak unless a plurality of the members of the planning commission or the board of commissioners present at the hearing allow an unassigned person to speak.
(6)
Printed copies of the hearing policies and procedures shall be available to the general public at every public hearing.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VIII, § 4)
Sec. 44-164. - Construction permit.
(a)
Required. No building or other structure shall be constructed, erected, moved, added to or structurally altered in any way without a building permit that has been issued in advance. Building permits shall only be issued as provided under this chapter. If construction of the building or structure has not begun within six months of the date of the issuance of the building permit, the permit shall become invalid. Details as to the type of permits required, and cost, may be found in appendix B [referred to herein by reference].
(b)
Requirements. Unless otherwise directed by the development code administrator, every application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a copy of a scaled plan or, as applicable, a plat showing the lot dimension and corners; the shape size and location of all structures to be erected, altered or moved; all other structures on the lot; the existing and intended use of all such buildings or other structures; and any other such information required by the development code administrator. If all proposed actions conform to this chapter and applicable building codes, a building permit may be issued. Any reasons for disapproval shall be provided to the applicant.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VIII, § 5)
Cross reference— Manufactured homes moving permit, § 44-82(8); platting required, § 44-36; requirements, § 44-166(1)a.
Sec. 44-165. - Occupancy permit.
(a)
Required. No habitable commercial or industrial structures (i.e., nonresidential) shall be used or occupied, and no building hereafter erected, altered, or extended, shall be used or changed in use until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the development code administrator in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. All occupants of nonconforming uses created by the passage of, and subsequent amendments to this chapter should obtain a certificate of occupancy within one year of the effective date of this chapter or any amendments thereof, in order to avoid any future conflict or misunderstanding regarding the status of the nonconformity in question, and to avoid any penalties which may accrue as a result of a failure to apply.
Unless otherwise specified, residential properties obtaining release of electrical power shall be construed as having been issued a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VIII, § 6)
Sec. 44-166. - Final plat and/or plan recording procedures (platting requirements).
The purpose of providing for plat and planned development recording procedures is to ensure that the platting and recording of official lots of record and planned unit developments are promulgated according to community standards and the standards of this chapter. Such standards shall provide required lots of adequate size, configuration, and appropriate design for the intended use. Such standards also shall allow for design flexibility and creativity, and shall in the case of planned developments provide for street and utility systems of adequate capacity.
(1)
Plat/plan approval authority. The planning commission shall be the official platting authority.
a.
Platting required. After the date of adoption of this chapter, platting shall be required for the establishment of any lot, parcel, tract, or any new residential, commercial, or industrial site, and, in addition, any person proposing to divide or subdivide land shall submit to the planning commission any plats and plans of any proposed division, subdivision, or planned development which shall conform to any division, subdivision, or planned development requirements set forth in this chapter. Any intended structures proposed to be sited on any platted site shall be sited on same.
b.
Final plat/plan approval required prior to clearing and grading streets. No clearing or grading of any purposed (proposed) streets shall begin prior to approval of a subdivision plat or plan by the planning commission as certified thereon. This prohibition shall extend to any other improvement related to the development of the proposed subdivision or planned development.
c.
Development plans approval required prior to construction of improvements. No subdivision or planned development improvement shall commence prior to the approval of development plans by the planning commission.
d.
Recording of plat required prior to sale of lot. No land owner shall sell or otherwise convey any lot or combination of lots for any purpose whether a single lot or lots in a proposed subdivision or planned development by reference to or exhibition of or by any other use of plat, plan, or such subdivision, until such plat or plan has been given final approval by the planning commission, as certified thereon, and recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of McDuffie County.
e.
Submission of "as-built" plans prior to final acceptance by governing body. Final acceptance of improvements in any subdivision or development which vary substantially from approved development plans shall not be given by the planning commission prior to the submission and approval of "as-built" plans and any other technical information which may be required.
f.
Legal status of public street required. No land dedicated as a public street shall be accepted, opened, or improved, nor shall any utilities or other facilities be installed therein unless such street corresponds in its location and lines with a street shown on a plat approved by the planning commission. Streets which shall have been accepted or opened as, or otherwise shall have received the legal status of a public street prior to the adoption of these regulations may be improved, or utilities or other facilities may be installed therein. The governing body, however, may locate and construct or may accept any other street, if the resolution or other measure for such approval is first submitted to the planning commission for its review and comment.
g.
Access to public street required. No building permit shall be issued for and no building or other structure shall be erected on any lot unless such lot has access to a street which shall have been accepted, maintained, or opened, or otherwise shall have received the legal status of, a public street; provided, however, that private streets and other drive accessways may be approved (but not accepted by the county) under the terms of these rules and regulations in planned developments, condominium projects, apartment projects, townhouses, commercial developments, shopping centers, or other developments where it is established that the owner/developer shall maintain ownership and control over such streets, roads, and other improvements.
(2)
Recording of final plat/plan. Upon the approval of a final plat or plan by the planning commission board or development code administrator, the owner, or his agent, shall have the final plat or plan recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court for the sale of any lot, or lots in a planned development.
No plat shall be changed or modified prior to recording once approval has been received from the planning commission board or development code administrator.
a.
Changes to final plat or plan. During the course of development construction in accordance with an approved final plat or plan, unforeseen circumstances may arise that require a technical change in the final plat or plan specifications. Where the need for such modifications arise during the construction process, the applicant shall request approval of any final plat or plan modifications from the development code administrator prior to final construction. Neither McDuffie County nor any official or body of the county shall assume liability or responsibility for any defects in construction.
b.
Requirement for "as-built" plans and other technical information.
1.
Preparation and specifications. After the preparation of the final plat, and before any improvements are accepted for maintenance by the local government, and before the subdivider or his agent are released from any bond requirement specified herein, the development code administrator shall receive formal written notice that all improvements have been installed as approved. Where said improvements have been installed in such a manner as to substantially vary from the final plat or plan in accordance with a modification approved by the planning commission, the applicant shall prepare and submit to the development code administrator a copy of "as-built" development plans and other technical information which may be needed.
2.
Scale. The "as-built" plans shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch, or the same scale as the final plat.
3.
Sheet size. The "as-built" plans shall be drawn in ink on suitable permanent reproducible material, on sheets 36 inches by 24 inches. If the complete plans cannot be shown on one sheet, it may be shown in sections on more than one sheet with an index map drawn at a reduced scale. In addition, one set shall be submitted in a format of 11″ × 17″ or smaller.
4.
Ground elevations. The "as-built" plans shall show ground elevations, based on the datum plane of the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, with a contour interval of five feet (or less if determined necessary by the development code administrator).
5.
Existing conditions to be shown on "as-built" plans. In such instances where there have been substantial variations from approved development plans, the planning commission shall require each of the following, as applicable, or any additional information required:
(i)
Final profiles of grades for streets.
(ii)
Final plan of sanitary sewers with grade, pipe sizes, and point of discharge.
(iii)
Final plan of storm drainage system with grade, pipe sizes, and location of outlets.
(iv)
Final plan of water supply system with pipe sizes, location of hydrants, and valves.
(v)
A complete listing of the deviations from the approved development plans made by the subdivider.
6.
Certification of improvements prior to acceptance by the governing body. The planning commission and the development code administrator shall not recommend that any subdivision or development improvements be accepted for maintenance by the local government unless they have been installed in accordance with approved development plans or approved "as-built" plans and other technical information which may be required.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VIII, § 8)
Sec. 44-167. - Certificate of zoning compliance.
There is the likelihood that there were preexisting, or nonconforming nonresidential uses of land and or structures, in whole or in part, which were, as a practical manner, unable to be accounted for, and would not have been permitted at the time of passage of this chapter. In order to 1) confirm and properly document the existence of these types of structures and uses; 2) monitor their existing activities; 3) to facilitate petitions that may be proposed to accommodate future changes in the use of these properties, and, 4) to mitigate any potential conflict in land use or structures, the board of commissioners may consider a requirement that occupants or owners of all commercial, industrial, home occupation and cottage industry uses obtain from the planning commission a certificate of zoning compliance. This certificate shall carry a fee, to be determined by the board of commissioners to cover administrative costs associated with processing.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. VIII, § 9)
Secs. 44-168—44-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IX. - APPLICATION SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES

Sec. 44-181. - Generally.
(a)
Types. There are three types of applications which shall represent an opportunity for petitioners to pursue proposed development activities, or to request amendment or relief from the requirements and standards of this chapter. The applications are: Administrative application, board application, and appeal application.
(b)
Preapplication conference. Regardless of application type, a preapplication conference is required and is intended to assist both the county and the applicant in determining what type of review will be required for the proposed development activity. It also provides a means of exchanging information about the application process and how to develop land in conformance with the requirements and standards of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. IX, § 1)
Sec. 44-182. - Administrative application.
(a)
Generally. An administrative application is a request for a minor change or amendment to the code or official zoning map; an amendment to the future land use map; an approval for a planned development, a variance to the dimensional requirements of any zoning district, or any development requiring minor discretionary review. These applications may be approved, disapproved, or otherwise reconciled by the development code administrator, and thus require no action by the planning commission board. Intended activities subject to administrative review include, but are not limited to:
(1)
Construction of a new single-family or two-family residence.
(2)
Additions or alterations to single-family dwellings, and nonresidential structures.
(3)
Construction of accessory buildings.
(4)
Consolidation of lots under single ownership or minor lot line adjustments.
(5)
Minor lot line adjustments.
(6)
Division or subdivision of a parcel or parcels along an existing and maintained county roadway provided such parcels conform to the zoning district requirements.
(7)
Permits to reconstruct a nonconforming use or structure destroyed by a fire or other natural act (as long as the authorization to reconstruct is requested within one year of the destruction).
(8)
Home occupations or cottage industries as uses permitted by right.
(9)
Minor variances in zoning dimensional requirements providing the intent of the dimensional requirements is maintained.
(b)
Submission requirements. The following are specifications which shall be required for the acceptance of complete application packages, based on the type of application submitted. No application shall be deemed complete unless accompanied by full payment of the appropriate application review fee.
(1)
Administrative applications submission requirements. The applicant for an administrative application shall upon request submit to the development code administrator:
a.
A completed application form. No fee is required.
b.
A plat of the subject property.
c.
A development plan drawn to scale showing in sufficient detail all proposed parcels, construction or structural changes, proposed buildings or structures to be added, or minor lot line adjustments whereby the development code administrator can determine compliance with this chapter.
(c)
Review procedures. The development code administrator shall approve, disapprove, or otherwise reconcile development activity. The decision to approve the applicable development activity by the development code administrator shall be made after consideration of all the relevant facts before him/her. Such relevant facts shall be measured to determine compliance with this chapter. The review procedures for an administrative application are as follows:
(1)
Approval. If the proposed development activity as set forth in the application is in compliance with this chapter, a construction or occupancy permit may be issued. Where a minor lot line adjustment may be deemed by the development code administrator as being approved, the adjustment shall then be recorded at the McDuffie County Clerk of the Court office.
(2)
Disapproval. If an administrative application is not approved or otherwise reconciled, the reason for disapproval shall be stated.
(3)
Reconciliation. Any administrative application that has been formally disapproved, or deemed incomplete or deficient by the development code administrator may be resubmitted upon proper reconciliation.
(4)
Review deadline. The development code administrator shall issue a final determination regarding an administrative application within 30 days of the date that the application is formally accepted by the development code administrator (or his/her designated agent) as complete in satisfaction of the applicable submission requirements. Failure by the development code administrator to issue a final determination within the 30-day deadline shall constitute automatic approval of the application only if the applicant receives all other required local, state, and federal approvals.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. IX, § 2)
Sec. 44-183. - Board application.
(a)
Generally. A board application is a request or petition for development activities that require extensive review and a public hearing by the planning commission board. Following consideration by the planning commission board, including any required public hearing, the results of the board's decision shall be forwarded as a recommendation to the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners for final review. Board application activities include, but are not limited to:
(1)
Variances.
(2)
Special exceptions.
(3)
Zoning changes.
(4)
Subdivision/planned development review.
(5)
Changes to the land development code.
(6)
Changes to the future land use map.
(7)
Adult entertainment review.
Note: For multiple applications of any of the above, see subsection (i) of this section]
(b)
Variances. A variance is a request by an applicant to be allowed to deviate from the requirements of the dimensional standards of this chapter. Requests for variances include, but are not limited to, a request for reduced setbacks, reduced road frontage, reduced minimum lot size, reduced number of parking spaces, increased number of structures per lot, handicapped variance, etc.
(1)
Application procedures. Any applicant seeking review of an application for a variance from the dimensional requirements of this chapter shall submit a completed application to the development code administrator within 30 days of the date of the planning commission board meeting at which such application would be considered. In addition to the completed application, the applicant may be required to submit additional information as the development code administrator may require including, but not limited to; a plat of the property showing all structures including the dimensions of same; a notation on the plat showing the linear variance requested; a deed of the subject property; and if the owner(s) is not the applicant, a letter of authorization from the owner(s) of the property authorizing the application for the variance.
(2)
Application fee. At the time of application, the applicant shall remit to the office of the planning commission an application fee, for a single property variance request, of $100.00 plus costs for legal notices and the placement of notice signs. Each additional variance request for a separate parcel if contiguous shall be $50.00 plus costs for legal notices and the placement of notice signs.
(3)
Review process. See section 44-184 of this article.
(c)
Special exceptions. Special exceptions are land uses which are subject to the imposition of land use limiting conditions which modify the land use to make it more compatible with the principally permitted uses in one or more zoning districts, but may not be appropriate generally through out the district as a whole, due to their nature, scale, and intensity of use. Such applications are commonly referred to as "conditional use." Examples of typical conditions may be found in section 44-72 of article IV.
(1)
Application procedures. Any applicant seeking review of an application for a special exception shall submit a completed application to the development code administrator within 30 days of the date of the planning commission board meeting at which such application would be considered. In addition to the completed application, the applicant may be required to submit additional information as the development code administrator may require including, but not limited to; a scaled development or site plan in a formal not greater than 11″ × 17″ showing the proposed development of the property and its zoning classification; a plat of the property; a deed of the subject property; and if the owner(s) is not the applicant, a letter of authorization from the owner(s) of the property authorizing the application for the special exception. Since special exception uses are uses which are generally accepted uses within the appropriate zoning district, an application for a special exception does not imply the need for, nor shall it constitute in itself, an application for a change in zoning.
(2)
Application fees. The applicant shall remit to the office of the planning commission an application fee of $100.00 plus costs for legal notices and the placement of notice signs for a single property special exception request.
(3)
Review process. See section 44-184 of this article.
(d)
Zoning changes/rezoning. Unless initiated by the board of commissioners, or the planning commission (board), all proposed zoning map changes must be submitted by the owner of the subject property or the duly authorized agent of the subject property owner. A duly authorized agent must submit notarized written authorization from the property owner with the request for zoning map amendment.
(1)
Application procedures. Any applicant seeking review of an application for a zoning change shall submit a completed application to the development code administrator within 30 days of the date of the planning commission board meeting at which such application would be considered. In addition to the completed application, the applicant may be required to submit additional information as the development code administrator may require including, but not limited to; a scaled development or site plan in a format not greater than 11″ × 17″ showing the proposed development of the property and its zoning classification; a plat of the property not greater than 11″ × 17″; and a deed of the subject property.
(2)
Application fees. The applicant shall remit to the office of the planning commission an application fee of $150.00 plus costs for legal notices and the placement of notice signs, for a zoning change request involving up to three contiguous lots or parcels, and, for a change to the same zoning classification. Each additional contiguous lot (for the same zoning classification) thereafter shall be charged an application fee of $75.00. Requests for changes to differing zoning classifications shall each be considered as separate applications even though the lots may be contiguous.
(3)
Review process. See section 44-184 of this article.
(e)
Subdivision/planned development review. An application for subdivision development (with interior streets) or for a planned development/planned unit development is one which requires substantial time for discretionary review and subsequent action requiring not less than one, and possibly two public hearings by the planning commission. A subdivision development along an existing county maintained road or street may be subject to the provisions of this section particularly if the subdivision involves more than ten subdivided lots.
(1)
Application procedures. Any applicant seeking review of an application for a subdivision (with interior streets) or a planned development/planned unit development shall submit a completed application to the development code administrator within 45 days of the date of the planning commission board meeting at which such application would be considered. In addition to the completed application, the applicant will generally be required to submit seven copies of a preliminary development plan prepared by either a Registered Georgia Professional Land Surveyor or Engineer and containing at a minimum, the following:
a.
A scale not greater than 1″ = 100′.
b.
A sheet size not greater than 24″ × 36″.
c.
One copy of the development plan formatted to 11″ × 17″.
d.
Title: "Preliminary Development Plan."
e.
Site map, north arrow, date, total acreage.
f.
Name and address of property owners.
g.
Name and address of development designer.
h.
Current and proposed zoning classification.
i.
Name(s) of adjoining property owners.
j.
Boundary line bearings and distances of perimeter boundary.
k.
Layout of all lots including approximate lot dimensions.
l.
Existing easements including width and type.
m.
Existing utilities at site.
n.
Existing streets/roads at site.
o.
Professional soil map of site if not served by municipal sewage.
p.
Contour elevations not greater than five feet.
q.
Boundaries of any areas subject to flooding.
r.
Boundaries of any overlay districts (Usry Pond, etc.).
s.
Layout design of all development improvements including structures, fencing, landscaping, common/recreation areas, parking areas, drains, or crossdrains, utilities, etc.
t.
Design of a typical road cross section.
Upon review by the planning commission board, the board shall specify any amendments to the development plan as it deem necessary to ensure the public health, safety, and general welfare. The applicant shall then amend the plan to incorporate the amendments specified by the board and resubmit the plan to the development code administrator to verify compliance with the board's required amendments. Should the plan be found to be in compliance with the board's required changes, the provisions of this chapter, and in particular the provisions of this article and of article VII (Planned Development Requirements), the administrator may approve the plan whereupon construction of the development may begin.
(2)
Application fees. The applicant shall remit to the office of the planning commission an application fee of $250.00 plus cost of legal notices and signs. In the case of a subdivision involving new interior streets, the fee shall be $250.00 plus $10.00 per lot over 25 lots, plus cost of legal notices and signs.
(3)
Review process. See section 44-184 of this article.
(f)
Land development code text changes. An application for a change in the land development code may request an amendment, supplement, or other change only to the text (including tables) of the code.
(1)
Application procedures. Any applicant seeking a review or consideration of a change to the land development code shall submit a completed application to the development code administrator within 45 days of the date of the planning commission board meeting at which such application would be considered. In addition to the application, the applicant shall include a detailed written explanation of those articles, sections, paragraphs, sentences, lists or tables for which they are requesting a review. Such items shall be formatted in a manner as to clearly indicate the current wording followed immediately by the recommended change(s). In addition to the above requirements, the applicant may be required to submit such other documentation or information as is requested by the development code administrator. Such proposed changes shall be forwarded to the county attorney for review.
(2)
Application fees. The applicant shall remit to the office of the planning commission an application fee of $100.00 plus cost of legal notices. Should signage and advertising be required, the applicant shall remit the cost of same.
(3)
Review process. See section 44-184 of this article.
(g)
Future land use map changes. Applicants may request a change to the future land use map in order to request or accommodate subsequent changes to the official zoning map. Due to the resulting effects on the McDuffie County Official Zoning Map by changes made to the future land use map, an intensive and thorough review will be made of all requests for such changes.
(1)
Application procedures. Any applicant seeking a review or consideration of a change to the future land use map shall submit a completed application to the development code administrator within 30 days of the date of the planning commission board meeting at which such application would be considered. In addition to the application, the applicant shall at a minimum include a description of the proposed change(s) in the future land use classification, the specific reasons for requesting the change(s), and a statement of how the requested change(s) will promote the relevant goals, objectives, and policies of the comprehensive plan for the affected area(s).
(2)
Application fees. The applicant shall remit to the office of the planning commission an application fee of $150.00 plus costs for legal notices and the placement of notice signs, for a land use change request involving up to three contiguous lots or parcels, for a change to the same land use classification. Each additional contiguous lot (for the same land use classification) thereafter shall be charged an application fee of $75.00. Requests for changes to differing land use classifications shall each be considered as separate applications even though the lots may be contiguous. Applications of this type may require one or more public hearings.
(3)
Review process. See section 44-184 of this article.
(h)
Adult entertainment review. Even though not specifically incorporated into and made a part of this land development code, the requirements of any adult entertainment ordinance hereafter adopted by McDuffie County shall be reviewed by the planning commission board for compliance with the provisions for the granting of a special exception and any other considerations as may affect the use of land in the county for that purpose.
(1)
Application procedures. In as much as the provisions of this chapter allow an adult entertainment use as a special exception as found under zoning classifications for C-2 and I-2, any application for an adult entertainment special exception shall follow the application procedures as found in subsection (c) of this section.
(2)
Application fees. Same as specified under subsection (c) of this section.
(3)
Review process. See section 44-184 of this article.
(i)
Multiple applications. Should an applicant require a combination or multiple applications of those activities listed under subsection (a) of this section, the requirements for each of the individual applications may be satisfied concurrently without the need for multiple redundant meetings or hearings, provided the combined public notice, hearing, review, and approval process satisfies all applicable requirements specified in the code for each type of application. The fee for a combined application review shall be $375.00 for any two applications, $500.00 for any three applications, and $800.00 for four or more applications; plus the cost of legal notices and signage. For a combination of applications which include a subdivision review, the above cost shall include the first 25 lots after which a charge of $10.00 per lot shall be incurred.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. IX, § 3)
Sec. 44-184. - Review procedure.
(a)
General provision. Following are the general provision for the review of applications before the planning commission board and board of commissioners. It should be recognized that the review procedures outlined in the following sections will under normal circumstances apply to those applications found in section 44-183(a) of this article, with the exception of subdivision/planned development and adult entertainment reviews since these reviews are created to verify compliance with the provisions of this chapter. However, if, and only if, a variance, zoning change, etc., is initiated by the applicant, or required by the planning commission board regarding either of these two developments, then the board of Commission shall review same.
(b)
Planning commission board. Upon completion of the final review by the planning commission board, the planning commission (office) shall forward to the McDuffie County Board of Commissioners within 30 days a recommendation addressing each application reviewed by the planning commission board.
(c)
Board of commissioners. Upon receipt of a recommendation by the planning commission board, the board of commissioners shall have 45 days in which to review the recommendation at a public meeting. The board of commissioners however shall have the right to "table" their decision until a future meeting. All decisions of the board of commission shall be considered final unless appealed under the provision of section 44-185 of this article.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. IX, § 4)
Sec. 44-185. - Appeal Application.
(a)
Generally. An appeal application is a petition that seeks additional review clarification and/or relief from the application or enforcement of the land development code by the development code administrator, planning commission (office), or the planning commission board or the board of commissioners.
Applications for appeal from the actions of the planning commission (office) or the development code administrator shall be appealed to the planning commission board.
Applications for appeal from the actions of the planning commission board shall be appealed to the board of commissioners.
Applications from appeal from the actions of the board of commissioners shall be appealed to the superior court of McDuffie County. (See subsection (d) of this section)
(b)
Appeal application. The applicant for an appeal application shall submit to the development code administrator:
(1)
In the case of appeals of decisions or actions of the development code administrator where no prior review has been made by the planning commission board, a completed application form and a fee equivalent to the type of issue being addressed under section 44-183 of this article. For example, if the DCA denies an administrative application for a minor variance, the applicant shall be required to submit an application and fee as noted in section 44-183(b) of this article; in this case $100.00 plus costs, since the application will be submitted to the board for full review.
The application fee shall be $50.00 for any application where an application has received a prior review by the planning commission board. Under no circumstances shall an appeal be substituted for any standard application process to the planning commission board.
(2)
In the case of appeals of decisions of the planning commission board to the board of commissioners, a completed application form and a fee of $50.00.
(3)
A plat or plan drawn to scale illustrating in sufficient detail all proposed activities or adjustments whereby the planning commission board or the board of commissioners can determine compliance with this chapter.
(4)
A legal description of the property.
(5)
Any additional information as the development code administrator or the applicant feel would be pertinent to the appeal application.
(c)
Appeal application review procedures. An appeal may be filed with the planning commission board or the board or commissioners by an applicant who is dissatisfied with a final decision of the development code administrator or the planning commission board respectively.
(1)
Review process. Any appeal to a board must be filed within 30 days of the date that the final decision by the development code administrator or the planning commission board was issued. Such review shall be conducted by the appropriate within 30 days of the date of the petition.
(2)
Final action. Either board shall issue a final decision regarding the appeal within 45 days of the date of such appeal. Such final decision shall be recorded in the minutes of the board and shall upon request be provided in writing to the petitioner or appellant. Failure by the board to render a final decision within the 45-day deadline shall constitute automatic approval of the appeal.
(d)
Appeals from board of commissioners. Any person aggrieved of a final decision by the board of commissioners may within 30 days of the rendering of the final decision appeal their decision with the superior court of McDuffie County by petitioning for a writ of certiorari pursuant to Title 5, Article 4 of the O.C.G.A.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. IX, § 5)
Secs. 44-186—44-200. - Reserved.
ARTICLE X. - LEGAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 44-201. - Severability.
Each phase, sentence, paragraph, section or other provision of this chapter may be severed from all other such phrases, sentences, paragraphs, sections, and provisions. Should any phrase, sentence, paragraph, section, or provision of this chapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not affect any other portion or provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. X, § 1)
Sec. 44-202. - Interpretation of conflicting requirements.
Whenever the requirements of this chapter conflict or are in any way inconsistent with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted statutes, rules, regulations, ordinances, the most restrictive, or that imposing higher standards, shall govern. Where a conflict occurs between the requirements of a general zoning district, an overlay zoning district, or where special conditions or development standards are required, the most restrictive, or that imposing higher standards shall govern. No certificate of zoning compliance or plat approval shall be issued or considered valid for any use or activity which is or would be otherwise illegal under the terms of any applicable local, state, or federal law.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. X, § 2)
Sec. 44-203. - Repeal of former development codes.
This chapter is the official land development code for the unincorporated areas of McDuffie County. All other conflicting local ordinances and resolutions adopted prior to the adoption or amendment of this chapter are hereby repealed; provided that nothing herein shall be construed as repealing or modifying those land use approvals, permits, or variances issued in good faith which were, at the time, in compliance with any previous local ordinance or resolution hereinafter repealed by this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. X, § 3)
Sec. 44-204. - Effective date.
This chapter shall take effect and be in full force from and after the date of its adoption by the board of commissioners of McDuffie County.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. X, § 4)
Sec. 44-205. - Penalties for violation.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions of grants of variance or special exceptions shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, pursuant to Part II, section 1-13 of the Code of Ordinances of McDuffie County, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000.00 or imprisoned for not more than 60 days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent McDuffie County from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. X, § 5)
Sec. 44-206. - Legal remedies.
In the event any provision of this chapter has been violated or is being violated, in addition to other remedies, the county may institute an injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent or abate such violation. The governing authority of McDuffie County may enforce this zoning ordinance by means of withholding building permits and occupancy permits from those persons who are in violation of the ordinance. In addition, the county may issue a "stop work" order to halt construction of any project authorized by permit issued by the county until such time as the construction complies with the provisions of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. X, § 6)
Sec. 44-207. - Enforcement.
The McDuffie County development code administrator, county attorney, or other appropriate official authorized by the board of commissioners may institute such actions as may be necessary to prosecute violations of this chapter under the provisions of section 44-205, or pursue on behalf of McDuffie County other appropriate legal remedies as provided in section 44-206.
(Ord. of 3-23-99, Art. X, § 7)
Secs. 44-208—44-230. - Reserved.
ARTICLE XI. - SOLAR LAND USE

Sec. 44-231. - Administration.
(a)
Rules of construction. Standard rules related to the structure and use of these regulations include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
The interpretation and application of the provisions of this article shall be held to serve as the minimum requirements necessary to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of unincorporated McDuffie County.
(2)
Where there is a conflict between any of the provisions of this article, the more restrictive provision shall prevail unless the specific language of the regulations requires a different interpretation.
(3)
Where an amendment to the provisions of this article has been adopted by the Board of Commissioners of McDuffie County and the adopted amendment conflicts with a preexisting provision found in this article, the provision which is more restrictive shall prevail.
(4)
Purpose statements are not regulatory standards but rather descriptions of intent that guide the application, interpretation, and administration of this article.
(5)
Figures, graphics, and illustrations, and supporting captions related to such items, are not regulatory standards, but are included to assist in the interpretation of the provisions of this article. Where there is an inconsistency between a figure, graphic, and illustration, and supporting captions related to such items, and the written text of a provision herein, the written text shall control unless the specific language of the regulations requires a different interpretation.
(Ord. of 8-18-15(1), Art. 1)
Sec. 44-232. - Definitions and interpretations.
(a)
Terms and definitions—solar land uses. For purposes of this article, certain terms and words related to solar land uses, and associated legal, scientific, technical, and general terms, are hereby defined, and shall have those meanings ascribed to them as provided herein. All other words and phrases shall assume their common, ordinary meaning, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, or a specific definition has been ascribed to them as provided within a separate section of this article.
(b)
Categories of solar land uses. The terms and definitions provided in this subsection refer to the types of principal and accessory solar land uses that are regulated by the provisions of this article. For purposes of categorizing and defining solar land uses, the terms herein may be considered "umbrella" in nature, meaning that they encompass a wide variety of utility scale solar collection, conversion and transmission systems for off-site power consumption as well as small-scale individual systems intended for on-site power consumption for uses such as a residence or business. Some of the terms provided in this section are augmented by supporting figures and/or representative illustrations.
(1)
Solar energy system: A system capable of collecting and converting solar radiant energy (through direct, diffuse, and/or reflective collection) into heat, mechanical, or electrical energy and transfers the produced electricity in to a separate apparatus to store or to a point of use which include, but are not limited to, water heaters, interior space heaters or coolers, or electrical energy generation. Solar energy systems primarily consist of solar collection devices and mechanical equipment related to solar energy (transformers, inverters, etc.).
(2)
Solar energy system, principal (PSES): A solar energy system which is the principal or primary use on a single lot or parcel which is used to collect and convert solar energy into usable electricity using on-site equipment for the primary purpose of transmitting electricity off-site to be used by an electric utility. There systems include all uses defined by the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) under Code 221114 which includes solar farms. (See figures B.1 and B.2).
Figure B.1: A principal solar energy system may occupy an entire lot.
Figure B-2: A property owner may choose to subdivide their property and place a solar farm on one of the newly created lots thus creating a principal use for that lot.
(3)
Solar energy system, accessory (ASES): A solar energy system that is an accessory use to the principal use of a property, meaning it is incidental to the principal use and is subordinate in area or purpose. Accessory systems may be roof-mounted, ground-mounted or parking-mounted. (See figures C.1 and C.2).
Figure C.1: Accessory solar energy systems may include building-mounted and/or ground-mounted systems, as shown in this illustration. They may be allowed in front, side or rear yards, although some restrictions may apply.
Figure C.2: Accessory solar energy systems can also include parking-mounted systems, as illustrated above. An accessory system can include any combination of building-mounted, ground-mounted or parking-mounted systems, subject to additional conditions.
(c)
Methods of collection. Solar collection systems come in a variety of configurations, utilize variable technologies and materials, and incorporate interrelated structures and components, in order to actively collect, convert, and transmit solar radiant energy in a safe and efficient manner. The terms and definitions provided in this subsection represent some, but not all, of the solar collection structures and components related to the solar land uses regulated by the provisions of this article:
(1)
Solar photovoltaic (PV) systems: A solar collection system which produces electricity by the use of photovoltaic cells which generate electricity when exposed to sunlight. A PV system may be roof-mounted or ground-mounted. Photovoltaic systems are generally comprised of the following components:
(2)
Solar thermal systems: A solar collection system which produces electricity by the use of photovoltaic cells which generate electricity when exposed to sunlight. A PV system may be roof-mounted or ground-mounted. Photovoltaic systems are generally composed of the following components:
a.
Flat plate collection: System which collects solar radiation to heat a liquid which in turn will be used to heat water or enclosed areas. This system generally contains a plate (panel) over tubes housed in a shell.
b.
Evacuated tube collection: System generally composed of hollow tubes which contains a liquid used for the purpose of heating large volumes of water or heat water to a high temperature.
(3)
Concentrated solar systems: A solar collection system that uses mirrors or lenses to concentrate sunlight and create temperatures high enough to heat water or fluids to drive steam turbines that in turn create electricity.
a.
Parabolic trough: Curved mirrors are used to focus the sun's radiant energy onto a receiver tube that runs down the center of a trough. High temperature transfer fluid passes through a heat exchanger to heat water.
b.
Compact linear Fresnel reflector: Similar to the parabolic trough, with the exception of long parallel rows of mirrors being used as a lower-cost option.
c.
Power tower: Structure where mirrors are used to focus the radiant energy of the sun on a receiver at the top of a tower to heat transfer fluid to produce steam.
(d)
Solar energy system structures and components. The terms provided in this subsection include legal, scientific, technical, and other general terms that are referenced in the provisions of this article, for which the inclusion of a related definition may assist in the application, interpretation, and administration of the provisions of this section.
(1)
Building-mounted solar energy system: A solar energy system in which solar panels are mounted on top of a roof or on the side of a building. (See Figures 2.4 A1 and A2). Building-mounted systems may be flush-mounted or non-flush-mounted.
Figures 2.4.A1 and 2.4.A2 (Building-mounted examples)
(2)
Building-integrated solar energy system: A type of building-mounted system that is an integral part of a building rather than a separate device, replacing a typical component of a building. Examples include, but are not limited to, solar energy systems that are contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights and awnings. (See figures 2.4 B1 and B2.)
Figures 2.4.B1 and 2.4.B2 (Building-integrated examples)
(3)
Ground-mounted solar collection system: A solar energy system that is directly installed in the ground and is not attached or affixed to an existing structure. This can include pole-mounted systems that allow for the tracking of the sun.
Figures 2.4.C1, 2.4.C2, 2.4.C3 and 2.4.C4 (Ground-Mounted Solar Collection System examples)
(4)
Parking-mounted solar collection system: A solar energy system that is installed above a paved surface vehicle parking area. Parking-mounted systems may cover any amount of parking spaces on a parcel but may not be installed in such a way that prevents the use of more than ten percent of existing spaces. (See figures 2.4.D1 and D2). A system mounted on top of a parking garage would be considered a building-mounted system. Such systems cannot impact the minimum number of parking spaces or the dimensions of parking spaces as required by McDuffie County Land Development Ordinance.
Figures 2.4.D1 and 2.4.D2 (Parking-mounted examples)
(5)
Solar panel: For the purpose of this article, a solar panel may refer to a solar module or surface component of a flat plate collector. Solar panels are meant to absorb, not reflect, sunlight.
(6)
Power inverter: A device that inverts the direct current (DC) electricity produced by a solar PV system into usable alternating current (AC).
(7)
Mechanical equipment related to solar energy systems: All items not listed in these definitions that are directly related to a construction and operation of a solar energy system including, but not limited to on-site transmission lines, pumps, batteries, inverters, mounting brackets, framing, foundations or other structures, etc.
(8)
Off-grid solar photovoltaic system with battery back-up: Solar PV electricity system designed to operate independently from a local utility grid and provide electricity to a building, boat, recreational vehicle, sign, remote pump, gates, etc. These systems usually require a battery bank to store electricity generated by solar for use at night or a rainy day.
Figures 2.4.D1 and 2.4.D2 (Parking-mounted examples)
(e)
Other terms related to solar land uses. The terms provided in this subsection include legal, scientific, technical, and other general terms that are referenced in the provisions of this article, for which the inclusion of a related definition may assist in the application, interpretation, and administration of the provisions of this section.
(1)
Solar energy easement: Easement that limits the height or location, or both, of structures or vegetation, or both, for the purpose of providing access to sunlight.
(2)
Solar glare: The effect produced by light reflecting from a solar panel with an intensity sufficient to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
(3)
Solar collector coverage: A solar energy system that is an integral part of a building rather than a separate device, replacing a typical component of a building. Examples include, but are not limited to, solar energy systems that are contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights and awnings.
(4)
Kilowatt (kW): A measure of the use of electrical power equal to 1,000 watts.
(5)
Kilowatt-hour (kWh): A unit of energy equivalent to one kilowatt (1 kW) of power expended for one hour.
(6)
Megawatt (MW): A measure of the use of electrical power equal to 1,000 kilowatts.
(7)
Megawatt-hour (MWh): A unit of energy equivalent to one megawatt (1 MW) of power expended for one hour.
(8)
Roof pitch: The final exterior slope of a building roof calculated by the rise over the run, typically, but not exclusively, expressed in twelfths such as 3/12, 9/12, 12/12.
(9)
Flush-mounted: A type of building-mounted system in which there is no space between the solar panels or collectors and the structure of the building.
(10)
Solar farm: Solar farm is a term used to describe large-scale solar energy systems. These facilities are typically larger tracts of land containing hundreds of arrays of photovoltaic panels covering the majority of a parcel. A solar farm development is associated with a principal solar energy systems.
(11)
Solar garden: Solar garden is a term used to describe a small-scale solar energy system that is sometimes operated under the form of a cooperative. These facilities generally contain a smaller amount of arrays for the purpose of sharing the benefit of energy production. A solar garden development is usually associated with accessory solar energy systems.
(12)
Mobile home park solar energy system: A solar energy system installed in a mobile home park is defined as a principal solar energy system (PSES) and shall follow all application procedures for a principal solar energy system (PSES).
(Ord. of 8-18-15(1), Art. 2)
Sec. 44-233. - Solar energy systems—Regulations.
(a)
Applicability. All solar energy systems are subject to supplemental and use-specific regulations. Principal solar energy systems and accessory solar energy systems referenced as a special use require legislative approval as provided by this article and are subject to all conditions listed in applicable sections of this section and may be subject to additional conditions of the legislative body. Accessory solar energy systems referenced as administrative permit uses may be approved by the zoning administrator subject to the adherence to the conditions listed in the applicable sections of this section.
(1)
Land uses listed in table 3.1 shall be permitted with conditions or permitted as a special use in each applicable zoning district. Uses shall not be permitted, buildings and structures associated with such use shall not be erected, structurally altered or enlarged on property, unless said use is permitted within the applicable zoning district as listed in table 3.1 and in accordance with one of the following designations:
"P" (Permitted use) - Indicates that the use is permitted in the zoning district.
"AP" (Administrative permit) - Indicates the use is permitted in the zoning district subject to administrative review and use-specific requirements contained in section 44-235.
"S" (Special use) - Indicates that the use may be permitted by the governing body subject to use-specific requirements contained in section 44-234 and procedural requirements listed in the city/town/county ordinance.
(2)
Any listed use that does not have a letter P, AP, or S listed in a particular zoning district is prohibited in that zoning district.
(3)
The size of any solar system within this jurisdiction shall be determined based first upon the square footage of all equipment and, if necessary, second upon electrical capacity of the system.
Table 3.1: Solar Energy System—Application Review Process
EXPAND
Agriculture/Forestry
(R-1) District
Residential Low-
Density (R-1) District
Residential Medium-
Density (R-2) District
Residential High-
Density (R-3) District
Commercial/Business
(C-1 & C-2) District
Industrial/Mining
(I-1 & I-2) District
Office/Institutional
(T-1) District
Principal Solar Energy System (PSES)
Ground-mounted solar energy system S S S S S S S
Solar Energy Systems — Accessory (ASES)
Ground-mounted with coverage of more than 50% of the footprint of the principal structure on the lot S S S S S S S
Ground-mounted with coverage of less than 50% of the footprint of the principal structure on the lot AP AP AP AP AP AP AP
Building-mounted (nonflush-mounted) or parking-mounted AP AP AP AP AP AP AP
Building-mounted (flush-mounted) or building-integrated P P P P P P P
  S - Not permitted by right but are subject to approval by a locally appointed and elected body.
AP - Permitted by right but are subject to additional land-use specific provisions (administrative process).
P - Permitted by right and are processed through building permit procedures.
(Ord. of 8-18-15(1), Art. 3)
Sec. 44-234. - Regulations for specific land uses or supplemental use requirements—Principal solar energy systems.
(a)
Dimensional requirements.
(1)
Minimum lot sizes. The minimum lot size needed to place a principal solar energy system is listed in table 4.1 (below):
EXPAND
Table 4.1: Minimum Lot Size in Acres Zoning District
Agriculture/Forestry
(R-1)
Residential Low-
Density (R-1)
Residential Medium-
Density (R-2)
Residential High-
Density (R-3)
Commercial/
Business (C-1 & C-2)
Industrial/Mining
(I-1 & I-2)
Office/Institutional
(T-1)
Ground-mounted solar energy system, principal 3 3 3 3 1 3 1
Ground-mounted with coverage of > 50% of footprint of principal structure on lot 3 3 3 3 1 3 1
  (2)
Setbacks. Principal solar energy systems shall have a minimum setback of 20 feet in addition to existing setback established in the zoning district. This applies to edge of any solar collectors or mechanical equipment related to solar energy systems. Power inverters, transformers, and other related equipment connected with the inversion of power shall have a setback of 50 feet in addition to existing setback established in the zoning district.
The ideal location for power inverters, transformers and related equipment should be located in the center of the principal solar energy system development. Deviations from this ideal must be requested in the development request.
(3)
Height of principal solar energy system collector. Height of ground-mounted or parking-mounted solar collectors and mounts shall not exceed 20 feet in height when oriented to maximum tilt for principal solar energy system collectors.
(4)
Maximum lot size. A principal solar energy system shall not be located on lots greater than 25 acres in area.
(5)
Contiguous parcels. A principal solar energy system shall be located only upon a contiguous platted parcel.
(b)
Relationship to other land uses.
(1)
Airports. Any solar energy system proposed within a 20,000-foot radius of an airport runway shall present evidence that they have gone through a review process with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). This review from the FAA shall indicate that the proposed solar energy system shall not interfere with normal operation of aircraft in an area. This review must be presented and evaluated by staff prior to any development beginning.
(2)
Historic districts. No principal solar energy system shall be located in a designated National Register Historic District. Districts in existence at the time of the adoption of this article are the Boneville District, the Thomas Carr District, the Hayes Line District and the Wrightsboro District. When additional designations are made by the United States Department of the Interior, this location restriction shall apply upon any subsequent location request.
(3)
Historic structures. All historic structures as recorded by the Historic Preservation Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources located within 1,000 feet of a proposed development must be listed and located in a development application.
(4)
Environmentally sensitive areas. Principal solar energy systems proposed for development in an environmentally sensitive area must provide an environmental impact statement for evaluation prior to approval.
(5)
Residential land uses. Principal solar energy systems may be allowed in areas in residential zoning districts (or areas in which the primary land use is residential) as long as the minimum lot size is met (table 4.1) and setbacks are met (subsection 44-234(a)(2)).
(c)
Buffering and screening.
(1)
Fencing. A security fence at a minimum height of eight feet with a gate and locking mechanism shall enclose the perimeter of the principal solar energy system to deny access to any individuals not authorized to be on the property and for public safety.
(2)
Buffering and screening. After a review of a proposed solar energy system by the zoning administrator or legislative body, either entity may require a buffer or screening for the proposed solar facility. If it is determined that either a buffer or screening is necessary, one or a combination of the following options may be implemented:
a.
On-site mature vegetation exist at a minimum height of ten feet and depth of the building setback for the zoning district plus 20 feet between the security fence and adjacent properties and right-of-way; or
b.
A single row of evergreens in combination with mature vegetation installed at a height of five feet achieving opaqueness and a minimum height of ten feet in five years; or
c.
A double row of offset evergreens absent mature vegetation, installed at a height of five feet achieving opaqueness and a minimum height of ten feet in five years; or
d.
A berm combined with evergreens vegetation installed at a height of five feet achieving opaqueness and a minimum height of ten feet in five years.
(d)
Signage.
(1)
Allowed signage. The manufacture's and/or installer's identification and appropriate warning signs shall be posted in a clear and visible manner at the site. This sign must follow the provision of the sign ordinance for the area in which it is located. A warning sign concerning voltage must be placed on the main gate and include the name and contact phone number for the solar energy system operator in case of emergency.
(2)
Advertisements. No business signs, billboards, or any other advertising shall be installed on any mechanical equipment or solar panels nor placed on the property on which the solar energy system is the principal use.
(e)
Construction and operation.
(1)
Transmission lines. All power transmission lines located within the principal solar energy system on a single lot shall be placed underground to the extent possible.
(2)
Glint and glare. All solar panels or arrays used for the principal solar energy system shall be located to avoid glint and glare onto upon [sic] adjacent properties and adjacent roadways in a manner that shall not create a safety hazard.
(3)
Noise. Noise levels of all mechanical equipment related to principal solar energy systems should not exceed 65 decibels (dB) at the property line on which the PSES is located.
(4)
Decommissioning. Applicants proposing a principal solar energy system shall include in its application to develop a principal solar energy system contingency plans for decommissioning the system that shall include plans for disassembly of the system and its removal.
(f)
Application required for principal solar energy systems. Principal solar energy systems may be permitted within the boundaries of McDuffie County as a special use. This requires the potential developer of this facility to go through established procedural processes within the article and provide a submittal package as established in subsection 44-234(g). No land disturbance permit may be issued for or principal solar energy system to begin development without approval from the Board of Commissioners of McDuffie County.
(g)
Processing applications for principal solar energy systems. A principal solar energy solar system may only be approved as a special use on a lot. A special use application must be submitted as set forth in the article and shall also be subject to and processed in accordance with this section of the article. A special use is not a use by right, and may be subject to approval, approval with conditions, or denial by action of the Board of Commissioners of McDuffie County acting upon a recommendation of the McDuffie County Planning Commission. A submittal package is required for proposed principal solar energy systems which shall include the following:
(1)
Application. A special use application shall be submitted by anyone wishing to place a principal solar energy system within the municipal/county boundaries.
(2)
Recorded plat or boundary survey.
(3)
Site plan. The scaled site plan must show property boundaries, location and size (area) of solar collectors and mechanical equipment related to solar, fencing, and if applicable the location of natural buffering and screening features located on the property.
(4)
A description of solar collectors and mechanical equipment related to solar including:
a.
UL certification for equipment on site,
b.
Written documentation stating that the facility is in compliance with all applicable federal and state regulations.
(5)
Other information may be required by the development code administrator.
(Ord. of 8-18-15(1), Art. 4)
Sec. 44-235. - Regulations for specific land uses and supplemental use requirements—Accessory solar energy systems.
(a)
Applicability. This section applies to all accessory solar energy systems except for ground-mounted systems with coverage of greater than 50 percent of the footprint of the principal structure on lot which are treated as principal solar energy systems.
(1)
Solar energy systems constructed prior to the effective date of this article shall not be required to meet the requirements of this section.
(2)
Any upgrade, modification, or structural change that materially alters the size or placement of an existing solar energy system shall comply with the provisions of this article.
Notation: Even if they are deemed accessory to the principal use of a property, ground-mounted systems covering an area equivalent to more than 50 percent of the footprint of the primary structure on the property are regulated as principal solar energy systems, with requirements set out in section 44-234.
(b)
General requirements. The installation and construction of an accessory solar energy system shall be subject to the following development and design standards:
(1)
An accessory solar energy system is permitted in all zoning districts as an accessory to a principal use.
(2)
A solar energy system connected to the utility grid shall provide written authorization from the local utility company acknowledging and approving such connection.
(3)
An accessory solar energy system may be roof-mounted, ground-mounted, parking-mounted, or any combination of the three, provided the system(s) meet the supplemental requirements pertaining to accessory solar energy systems.
(c)
Dimensional requirements.
(1)
Minimum lot sizes. There is no minimum lot size requirement for an accessory solar energy system.
(2)
Setbacks.
a.
Ground-mounted systems may be located within required building setbacks.
b.
The minimum solar energy system setback distance from the property lines shall be equivalent to the accessory building setback requirement of the underlying zoning district.
c.
With respect to building-mounted systems, only building-integrated and/or flush-mounted solar energy systems may be installed on street-facing building elevations.
d.
In residential zoning districts, a ground-mounted system, parking-mounted system, or system attached to an accessory building shall not be located within a required street setback or street/front yard. This restriction shall also apply to the side yard in any residential district. The side yard shall be determined during the administrative permit application process.
(3)
Height.
a.
A building-mounted system may be mounted on a principal building or accessory building. A building-mounted system, whether mounted on the principal building or accessory building, may not extend more than ten feet above the highest point of the roofline of a flat roof and not above the roofline of any other roof, such as, but not limited to, gable, gambrel or hip roofs.
b.
A building-mounted system may not extend more than ten feet beyond the maximum principal building height or accessory building height specified for the building type in the underlying zoning district. In no instance shall any part of the solar energy system extend beyond the edge of the roof.
c.
Ground-mounted and parking-mounted systems shall not exceed the maximum building height for accessory buildings. If no height limit is specified for accessory buildings, ground-mounted or parking-mounted systems may not exceed 20 feet in height.
(d)
Parcel or building coverage.
(1)
Building-mounted systems may cover any amount of a roof but may not extend beyond the roofline.
(2)
Accessory ground-mounted systems may cover an area no larger than 50 percent of the footprint of the principal structure on the parcel. Any larger and the system is treated as a principal solar energy system.
(3)
Parking-mounted systems shall only cover paved surfaces intended for parking. Nonresidential driveways may not be covered by parking-mounted systems.
(4)
Only building integrated systems shall be installed on residential-type roofs visible from public rights-of-way.
(e)
Screening. All mechanical equipment associated with and necessary for the operation of the solar energy system shall comply with the following:
(1)
Mechanical equipment for nonresidential systems shall be screened from any adjacent property that is residentially zoned or used for residential purposes. The screen shall consist of shrubbery, trees, or other noninvasive plant species which provide a visual screen. In lieu of a planting screen, a decorative fence may be used.
(2)
Mechanical equipment shall comply with the setbacks specified for accessory structures in the underlying zoning district.
(f)
Historic districts. Accessory solar energy systems on buildings or properties within federal, state, or local designated historic districts or on locally designated historic buildings will require a certificate of appropriateness unless the installation is not visible from the street. For the purpose of accessory solar energy systems, the certificate of appropriateness shall be issued by the McDuffie County Planning Commission.
(g)
Other considerations.
(1)
Accessory solar energy systems must comply with all applicable building and electrical code requirements as adopted by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs.
(2)
Owners of accessory solar energy systems are solely responsible for negotiating with other property owners for any desired solar easements to protect access to sunlight. Any such easements must be recorded with the McDuffie County Clerk of Superior Court.
(3)
Solar panels shall be placed such that concentrated solar radiation or glare shall not be directed onto nearby properties or roadways.
(4)
Solar panels shall not be placed in the vicinity of any airport in a manner that would interfere with airport flight patterns. Acknowledgment from the Federal Aviation Administration will be necessary.
(5)
All power transmission lines from a ground-mounted solar energy system to any building or other structure shall be located underground unless precluded by building codes adopted by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs.
(6)
A solar energy system shall not be used to display advertising, including signage, streamers, pennants, spinners, reflectors, ribbons, tinsel, balloons, flags, banners or similar materials. The manufacturers and equipment information, warning, or indication of ownership shall be allowed on any equipment of the solar energy system provided they comply with the prevailing sign regulations.
(7)
The design of the solar energy system shall conform to applicable industry standards. The local utility provider shall be contacted to determine grid interconnection and net metering policies.
(h)
Approvals and permits.
(1)
All accessory solar energy systems other than building-mounted (flush-mounted) systems and building-integrated systems shall require administrative plan approval resulting in a building permit.
(2)
All accessory solar energy systems other than building-mounted (flush-mounted) systems and building-integrated systems shall require a building permit.
(3)
Systems that do not meet the conditions in this section will require a variance.
(4)
A solar energy system shall not be constructed until a building permit has been issued following a zoning review.
(i)
Plan applications.
(1)
Plan applications for accessory solar energy systems shall be accompanied by to-scale horizontal and vertical (elevation) drawings. The drawings must show the location of the system on the building or on the property for a ground-mounted system, including the property lines.
(2)
For all building-mounted (nonflush-mounted) systems, the elevation must show the highest finished slope of the solar collector and the slope of the finished roof surface on which it is mounted.
(j)
Administrative variance. This code encourages the installation of productive solar energy systems and recognizes that a balance must be achieved between character and aesthetic considerations and the reasonable desire of building owners to harvest their renewable energy resources. Where the standards in this article cannot be met without diminishing, as defined below, the minimum reasonable performance of the solar energy system, an administrative variance may be sought from the zoning official. An administrative variance shall be granted if the administrative variance standards are met.
(1)
Minimum performance design standards. The following design considerations are needed for the efficient operation of a solar energy system:
a.
Fixed-mount active solar energy systems. Solar energy systems must be mounted to face with 45 degrees of south (180 degrees azimuth).
b.
Solar electric (photovoltaic) systems. Solar electric (photovoltaic) systems must have a pitch that is within 20 degrees of latitude, a pitch of between 20 and 65 degrees.
c.
Solar hot water systems. Solar collectors need to be mounted at a pitch between 40 and 60 degrees.
(2)
Standards for an administrative variance. A variance shall be granted by the zoning official if the applicant demonstrates that the following safety, performance and aesthetic conditions are met:
a.
Aesthetic conditions. The solar energy system must be designed to blend into the architecture of the building or be screened from routine view from public rights-of-way other than alleys to the maximum extent possible while still allowing the system to be mounted for efficient performance.
b.
Safety conditions. All applicable health and safety standards are met.
(Ord. of 8-18-15(1), Art. 5)
