ARTICLE IV. - AUTHORITIES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS[6]
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Related laws reference— Hospital Authority of McDuffie County, art. II.
Cross reference— Animal control board, §§ 10-27, 10-28; emergency 911 system advisory board, § 30-61 et seq.; historic preservation commission, § 42-41 et seq.; recreation and leisure services advisory board, § 54-116 et seq.; inter-agency recreation council, § 54-136 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-201—2-270. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Authority to adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 4; The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; local government zoning powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-2; conflicts of interest in zoning actions, O.C.G.A. § 36-67A-1 et seq.; coordinated and comprehensive planning by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.; effect of zoning laws on covenants running with the land, O.C.G.A. § 44-5-60.

Sec. 2-271. - Creation.
(a)
There is hereby created the county planning commission to consist of five members who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the county board of commissioners. The initial members of the commission shall be appointed for the following terms:
Post 1: five years.
Post 2: four years.
Post 3: three years.
Post 4: two years.
Post 5: one year.
Thereafter successors to each initial member shall serve a five-year term and until their successors are duly appointed. Members may succeed themselves.
(b)
The commission shall elect from among its members a chairman and vice-chairman and such other officers as deemed necessary and appropriate. All officers shall serve for a period of one year or until their successors are elected. Officers may succeed themselves. The chairman shall supervise the affairs of the commission, preside at all meetings and appoint such committees as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of the commission. The vice-chairman shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the chairman in his absence or disability.
(c)
The duties of the county planning commission shall be to administer the county land development code; conduct public hearings and act upon requests for variances; supervise and advise the county planning commission administrator; and perform such other duties and responsibilities as may be from time to time delegated to them by the county board of commissioners.
(Res. of 1-1-91)
Secs. 2-272—2-290. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CLEAN COMMUNITY COMMISSION[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 34; solid waste, ch. 66.
State Law reference— Solid waste management education program; establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3.

Sec. 2-291. - Established.
There is hereby established the Thomson-McDuffie County Clean Community Commission.
(Ord. of 11-7-79, § 1)
Sec. 2-292. - Duties.
The duties of the clean community commission shall be to promote public interest in the general improvement of the environment of Thomson-McDuffie County, to initiate, plan, direct and coordinate programs for litter control for the Thomson-McDuffie clean community system, and to study, investigate and develop plans for improving the health, sanitation, safety, and cleanliness of the county by beautifying the streets, highways, alleys, river and streambeds, lots, yards, and other similar places in the county; to aid in the prevention of fires, diseases and other casualties by the removal and elimination of trash and other debris from the streets, highways, alleys, lots, yards, plots, and other similar places; to encourage the placing, planting and/or preservation of trees, flowers, plants, shrubbery and other objects or ornamentation in the county; to protect songbirds and other wild fowl; to advise and recommend plans to other agencies of the county for the beautification of the county and otherwise to promote public interest in the general improvement of the environment of Thomson-McDuffie County; provided, however, that nothing in this division shall be construed to abridge or change the powers and duties of other commissions' departments, board, and other like agencies of the county.
(Ord. of 11-7-79, § 1)
Sec. 2-293. - Powers.
In order to perform the duties outlined in section 2-292, the clean community commission shall have the authority to:
(1)
Adopt bylaws to facilitate the attainment of its purpose and functions;
(2)
Initiate, plan, direct, and coordinate communitywide efforts to achieve its goals;
(3)
Solicit and accept donations and appropriations of money, services, products, property and facilities for expenditure and use by the commission for the accomplishment of its objectives;
(4)
Employ, pay and terminate the employment of such staff as may be required for the fulfillment of commission purposes; and
(5)
Make recommendations to city and county governing bodies as well as to the private sector regarding measures which it deems necessary to accomplish its objectives.
(Ord. of 11-7-79, § 1)
Sec. 2-294. - Membership.
(a)
The clean community commission shall consist of no more than 22 members who shall be residents of Thomson or McDuffie County and who shall serve without remuneration. Members shall be appointed by the mayor and council of the City of Thomson, the board of commissioners of the county, and the Thomson/McDuffie County Chamber of Commerce.
(b)
In addition to the appointed members of the commission, the mayor of Thomson, the chairman of the county board of commissioners and the president of the Thomson/McDuffie County Chamber of Commerce shall serve as ex-officio members of the commission.
(Ord. of 11-7-79, § 1)
Sec. 2-295. - Terms of office.
The terms of office of the members of the clean community commission shall generally be for two years each. Members whose terms have expired shall continue as members until their successors shall have been appointed.
(Ord. of 11-7-79, § 1)
Sec. 2-296. - Election of officers.
The clean community commission shall elect from its memberships a chairman and such other officers as may be desired. Officers shall be elected on a calendar year basis but may be reelected for succeeding terms.
(Ord. of 11-7-79, § 1)
Sec. 2-297. - Management of funds.
(a)
The clean community commission shall have the power to receive and disburse funds within the limitations of appropriations, gifts which have been previously approved jointly by the city and the county, and in connection with projects or undertaking previously approved. Within the same limitations, the commission shall be empowered to contract with any private or public agency to the extent required for its proper operation. The commission shall report to the city and county its acting and doings in connection with each project or undertaking and shall include as part of its report, a statement of its receipts and disbursements, from whatever source and to every object, for the preceding 12 months. Additionally, upon the completion of
each project or undertaking, the commission shall make a complete report to the city and county with respect to such project or undertaking, showing the action in connection therewith and any funds received or expended in its behalf. The commission shall keep such records as will enable it to make such reports and accountings, and the records shall be subject to verification and examination by auditors of the city and/or county.
(b)
Any project or undertaking begun by the commission shall be terminated at any time upon the decision of either the mayor and council of the City of Thomson or the county board of commissioners that the continuance thereof is not in public interest.
(Ord. of 11-7-79, § 1)
Sec. 2-298. - Compensation.
All of the members of the clean community commission shall serve without pay.
(Ord. of 11-7-79, § 1)
Secs. 2-299—2-320. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Cross reference— Personnel, ch. 58.

Sec. 2-321. - Creation.
There is hereby created a human relations commission for the City of Thomson and the County of McDuffie to be called Thomson/McDuffie County Human Relations Commission.
(Ord. No. 453, § 1, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-322. - Composition.
The human relations commission shall be composed of 12 members with equal representation from all ethnic segments of the city and county, 10 of which shall be bona fide adult residents of the city and/or county, and two of which shall be student residents of the city and/or county, with all members appointed by the city council of Thomson and the board of commissioners of McDuffie County, with the advice of the human relations commission. Its membership shall represent a cross section of the community from the following interests or groups: industry, government, health, housing, labor, commerce, agriculture, law enforcement, ministry, etc. The chairman of the commission shall not vote unless it is necessary to break a tie vote. The mayor of the City of Thomson and the chairman of the board of commissioners of McDuffie County or their designees, shall be ex officio nonvoting members of the commission.
(Ord. No. 453, § 2, 1-11-90; Res. of 3-1-00, § 2)
Sec. 2-323. - Terms of office.
Initial appointments to the human relations commission shall be as follows: five members for a period of three years; five members for a period of four years; five members for a period of five years; and five members for a period of six years. Following the expiration of the initial terms of office, all other appointments shall be for a period of four years except in the event of death or resignation of any member. Upon the death or resignation of any member, his successor shall be appointed to serve for the unexpired term for which such member has been appointed; provided, however, the ethnic balance is maintained. All members shall continue in office until their successors shall have been appointed, and there shall be no limit to terms of office. Any student member shall serve a term to expire upon graduation from high school.
(Ord. No. 453, § 3, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-324. - Officers and their terms of office.
The human relations commission shall elect a chairman and such other officers as it deems necessary from its members. Such officers shall serve in their respective offices for a term of one year or until their successors shall be appointed. They may be reelected.
(Ord. No. 453, § 4, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-325. - Compensation.
All members of the human relations commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. No. 453, § 5, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-326. - Executive directors and staff.
The appointment of the executive directors of the human relations commission shall be made by the board of commissioners of McDuffie County and the city [council] of Thomson, with the advice of the human relations commission. The executive directors shall be persons with training and experience in intergroup and interracial relations. Initially this position shall be in total part-time, 20 hours per week until a greater time commitment is warranted. He shall coordinate the activities of the commission and staff. He may, with the approval of the commission and within the budget of the commission, employ such staff as needed. The compensation, if any, of the executive directors and other staff shall be as provided in the budget approved by the city council of Thomson and the county board of commissioners. Following the initial appointment of the executive directors, the executive directors shall serve at the pleasure of the city council of Thomson and board of commissioners of McDuffie County; provided, however, that the termination of the executive directors or the employment of new executive directors shall receive the concurrence of the city council and the county commissioners.
(Ord. No. 453, § 6, 1-11-90; Res. of 3-1-00, § 3)
Sec. 2-327. - Office space and facilities.
The city council and the board of commissioners are authorized to secure adequate office space and facilities for the human relations commission.
(Ord. No. 453, § 7, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-328. - Budget and finance.
The human relations commission shall annually adopt the budget to be submitted for approval to the city council and the board of commissioners. The commission shall be authorized to contract with the state and federal agencies, but such contracts must first be approved by the city council and county commission. All expenditures of the commission shall be limited to those as specified by the budget.
(Ord. No. 453, § 8, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-329. - Inspection and audit of financial records.
The financial records of the human relations commission shall be audited annually by a qualified external auditor. Such audit, when completed, shall be submitted to the commission for approval, and a copy shall be provided to the internal auditor of the city council and the board of commissioners. All financial records of the commission shall be open for inspection by the county grand jury.
(Ord. No. 453, § 9, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-330. - Meetings.
The human relations commission shall set forth the time, place, and frequency of its meetings to effectuate the purpose of this division, and such meetings shall be open to the public. The commission reserves the right to deliberation in closed session, consistent with state law.
(Ord. No. 453, § 10, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-331. - Quorum.
Seven members of the human relations commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. No. 453, § 11, 1-11-90; Res. of 3-1-00, § 4)
Sec. 2-332. - Rules and bylaws.
The human relations commission shall adopt such rules as it deems expedient for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. No. 453, § 12, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-333. - Reports.
The human relations commission shall report in writing its activities to the city council and the county commission annually and make such other reports from time to time, or after the completion of any hearing as it may determine necessary, setting forth the facts found by it and its recommendations in the furtherance of its objectives.
(Ord. No. 453, § 13, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-334. - Duties and powers.
It shall be the duty of the human relations commission to:
(1)
Seek fair and equal treatment under the law for all citizens.
(2)
Attempt to act as conciliator in controversies involving human relations.
(3)
Promote mutual understanding, tolerance, and respect among all economic, racial, religious and nationality groups and work to discourage and prevent discriminatory practices against any such groups.
(4)
Study the problems of group relationships and promote amiable relations among racial and cultural groups and strive to eliminate whatever sources of interracial friction may exist.
(5)
Take appropriate steps by conference and education to deal with conditions that strain relationships.
(6)
Aid in the coordination of the activities of private organizations concerned with these relationships.
(7)
Make such investigations, studies, and surveys, and conduct such public hearings and make such recommendations to the city council and the county commission as in its judgment will effectuate the policy of this division and as are necessary for the performance of its duties.
(8)
Maintain contacts with groups concerned with interracial and intercultural understanding.
(9)
Serve as a source of accurate and reliable data on the problems in the fields mentioned in this section.
(10)
Work to remove inequalities, if any, which pertain to minority groups' status, such as problems of housing, recreation, education, law enforcement, employment, vocational guidance and related matters.
(11)
Investigate and study complaints, problems and specific situations arising between groups or individuals which result or may result in tensions, discrimination or prejudice in the county on account of race, color, religion, national origin, handicap or age.
(12)
Receive and investigate complaints alleging discrimination in employment and public accommodations because of race, religion, color, sex, national origin, handicap or age.
(13)
Endeavor by education to induce public and private employers, labor and professional organizations and employment agencies to institute nondiscriminatory practices in employment, promotion, wages, working conditions, layoffs, and job opportunities.
(14)
Endeavor by education to engender respect for law and order and lawful authority and promote amenability to law enforcement; distinguish between peaceful dissent and illegal disorder and violence; and promote a sense of individual responsibility and respect for each other without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or age.
(15)
Endeavor by education to increase racial pride without resentment toward other races, and to point out that the manifestations of racial hatred and acts of lawlessness directed toward other races generate and intensify counteracting racial prejudice and retaliatory racial discrimination.
(16)
Disseminate information that no group or individual is entitled to special privileges, treatment, protection, or immunity by reason of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, social, or economic condition, handicap, or age, but that all have equal responsibility to strive for self-advancement and improvement, civic good, and community welfare and best interests.
(17)
Secure the furnishings of equal services to all residents, and where the need is greater in meeting that need with additional services.
(18)
Train city and county employees to use methods of dealing with intergroup relations which develop respect for equal rights and which result in equal treatment without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age or handicap.
(19)
Assist in improving the equality of opportunity for employment and advancement in the city and county government.
(20)
Adopt, promulgate, amend, and rescind suitable rules and procedures to carry out the provisions of this division.
(21)
Recommend to the city council and the county commission such additional ordinances as will aid in carrying out the purpose of this division.
(22)
Advise, consult with, and make recommendations to the city council and the county commission, agencies and officials, for the betterment of intergroup relationships and ways and means of discouraging and combatting prejudice, intolerance and bigotry in all groups and in their relations with one another.
(23)
Discover practices and policies calculated to create conflicts, tensions, unfair or unjust discrimination which would be deemed detrimental to the community's best interests and recommend ways and means for their elimination.
(24)
Inform and warn the public of false and sinister propaganda subversive to public interest and search out and reveal sources of inflammatory, lewd, vulgar and profane racial propaganda.
(Ord. No. 453, § 14, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-335. - Equal employment practices.
The human relations commission desires to assist both employers and employees in resolving any questions of equal employment, based on EEOC guidelines, laws of the state and the United States of America.
(Ord. No. 453, § 15, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-336. - Procedures for redress of practices contrary to this division.
(a)
Any person alleging a practice contrary to this division must file a written complaint with the human relations commission or its designated representative no later than 180 days after the alleged practice occurred.
(b)
Upon receipt of a complaint, the commission shall be certain that all avenues of reconciliation have been expired at the source of the conflict. If warranted, it shall serve a copy of the complaint on the respondent within ten days of receipt thereof and shall conduct an investigation of the complaint.
(c)
If the commission determines after such investigation that there is reasonable cause to believe the charge is true, the commission shall endeavor to eliminate any such alleged practice by informal and voluntary methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion. During such informal endeavors, the commission may seek from the respondent such relief as may be appropriate.
(d)
All investigations, conferences, and negotiations for conciliation pursuant to this division shall be confidential. Further, at no time shall the results of any conciliation be made public without the expressed written consent of the parties involved.
(e)
If within ten days after the commission has determined that conciliation efforts have failed, it shall so notify the parties in writing, and the respondent may request a hearing before the commission within ten days of the receipt of such notice.
(f)
If the commission determines that the complaint as alleged is not true, it shall dismiss the complaint and notify the parties in writing of such determination. Within ten days of receipt of such notice of dismissal, the complainant may request a hearing from the commission. A request for a hearing shall be granted expeditiously. No hearing may be had from a finding and determination of a lack of jurisdiction. At such hearing, the commission may affirm or set aside its findings as set forth in subsection (c) of this section, in whole or in part.
(g)
If the commission determines after a hearing that any respondent has committed an unlawful act prohibited by this division, and the respondent refuses to comply with an order of the commission within 60 days after notification of such final disposition, or if the respondent fails to request a hearing before the commission within ten days after receipt of notice of failure of conciliation, the commission may refer the complainant to EEOC or other agency for appropriate legal action.
(Ord. No. 453, § 16, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-337. - Religious organizations' hiring practices exempted.
This division shall not apply to religious corporations, religious associations, religious educational institutions, or religious societies with respect to the employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on by such corporations, associations, educational institutions or societies of its activities.
(Ord. No. 453, § 17, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-338. - Cooperation of ethnic, racial, religious and community groups sought.
The human relations commission shall invite and enlist the cooperation of all ethnic, racial, and religious groups, and community organizations in carrying on its work and act as a coordinating agency among them and such other groups in the establishment and maintenance of education programs with a view to bringing about better intergroup and racial relationships necessary or desirable to carry out specific programs designed to lessen the tensions or improve understanding. The commission shall also cooperate with the mayor, city council, all other city agencies, the board chairman, county commission, all other county agencies, all state and federal agencies, citizens, citizens' organizations, the board of education, parochial and private schools in formulating and developing courses in education to stimulate the interest of the entire population in the improvement of services wherever such cooperation is appropriate in effectuating the purposes of this division and in accomplishing the objectives of the commission to promote better human relations.
(Ord. No. 453, § 18, 1-11-90)
Sec. 2-339. - Legal services.
Legal representation, advice and review of contracts and other records shall be provided by the city and the county attorneys. Obtaining legal representation other than from the city or county attorney shall require the written approval of the city council and board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 453, § 19, 1-11-90)
Secs. 2-340—2-360. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1; Georgia Development Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-361. - Declaration of necessity and purpose of division.
The county board of commissioners has determined and declared a pressing, existing and future need for a development authority, as more fully described and defined in the development authorities law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq., to function in the county for the purpose of developing and promoting for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities in the county, thereby promoting the general welfare of its citizenry.
(Res. of 1-17-70(2))
Sec. 2-362. - Creation.
There is hereby activated in the county the public body corporate and politic known as the Development Authority of McDuffie County which was created upon the adoption and approval of the development authorities law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.
(Res. of 1-17-70(2))
Sec. 2-363. - Initial appointment and subsequent election of directors.
Commencing with the date of adoption of the resolution from which this division is derived by the county board of commissioners, each of the persons named as initial directors of the development authority shall serve in such capacity for the number of designated years, and, if at the end of any term of office of any director a successor thereto shall not have been elected, then the director whose term of office shall have expired shall continue to hold office until his successor shall be so elected.
(Res. of 1-17-70(2))
Sec. 2-364. - Duties and powers in accord with state law.
(a)
The board of directors of the development authority elected pursuant to section 2-363 shall organize itself, carry out its duties and responsibilities and exercise its powers and prerogatives in accordance with the terms and provisions of the development authorities law as it now exists and as it might hereafter be amended or modified.
(b)
The clerk of the county board of commissioners shall furnish immediately to the secretary of state of the State of Georgia a certified copy of this division in compliance with the mandate set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.
(Res. of 1-17-70(2))
Sec. 2-365. - Public hearings.
In connection with any issue of obligation by the development authority, the development authority is authorized and directed to conduct on behalf of the county any public hearing required by section 103(k)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, or any successor or similar provision now or hereafter in effect.
(Res. of 10-10-83)
Secs. 2-366—2-370. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - DRUG ABUSE TREATMENT AND EDUCATION FUND BOARD

Sec. 2-371. - Creation.
There is hereby created the county drug abuse treatment and education fund board. This board is created to determine appropriate uses of the funds deposited in the county drug abuse treatment and education fund in the future and to suggest uses of the funds presently in the fund for approval by the county and to provide and assure appropriate supervision and management of these funds.
(Res. of 8-16-05, § 1)
Sec. 2-372. - Supervision and management of funds.
The county drug abuse and education fund board shall provide appropriate supervision and management of the funds so under their care and control and it shall determine appropriate drug abuse treatment and education programs for spending these funds. The board shall meet quarterly to discuss how funds are to be expended and to insure the appropriate supervision and management of the funds. The board shall report at least annually to the board of commissioners how the funds were used to insure compliance with the Georgia Code.
(Res. of 8-16-05, § 2)
Sec. 2-373. - Compositon of board.
(a)
The composition of the county drug abuse treatment and education fund board shall be individuals selected by the Board of Commissioners of McDuffie County from the following entities:
(1)
Class I.
a.
Law enforcement:
1.
Sheriff's department;
2.
Thomson City Police.
b.
Judicial system:
1.
Superior court clerk;
2.
Judge.
c.
District attorney's office.
d.
Public defender's office.
(2)
Class II.
a.
State board of pardons and parole.
b.
State probation office.
c.
CSRA probation services.
d.
City government.
1.
Thomson;
2.
Dearing.
(3)
Class III.
a.
County government;
b.
McDuffie County Board of Education;
c.
Department of family and children's services;
d.
McDuffie County Community Mental Health;
e.
Department of juvenile justice.
(b)
This board shall be created in three classes with staggered three-year terms. Class I shall be appointed for a term ending December 31, 2005. Class II directors shall be appointed for a term ending December 31, 2006, and the Class III directors shall be appointed for a term ending on December 31, 2007. At the expiration of each class's initial term, they shall thereafter be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of McDuffie County for three-year terms.
(Res. of 8-16-05, § 3)
Sec. 2-374. - Approval of board of commissioners required to spend existing funds.
There are presently funds in the county drug abuse and treatment education fund from previous years that are to be used for special purposes in the future. The county drug abuse and treatment education fund board may spend these preexisting funds for special educational activities and drug abuse treatment programs only with the prior approval of the Board of Commissioners of McDuffie County.
(Res. of 8-16-05, § 4)
Secs. 2-375—2-385. - Reserved.
