PART I - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the 1955 act of the general assembly, as amended, which created the board of commissioners of the county. It may be cited as 1955 Ga. Laws, page 2331. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20, the words "roads and revenues" have been stricken from the name of the governing authority. Pursuant to art. 6, sec. 6, par. 14 of the Georgia Constitution of 1976, the words "ordinary" and "court of ordinary" have been changed without notation to "judge of the probate court" and "probate court" throughout the text of this article. Section number designations have been retained for consistency with the original act.
Pursuant to a consent decree entered March 8, 1993, by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia in civil action number 176-128, a redistricting and election plan was implemented which provided for two two-member districts and a chairman to be elected at large, thereby increasing the composition of the board of commissioners to five members. A copy of the subject consent decree is on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Code reference—Board of commissioners, § 2-36 et seq.

Section 1. - Repeal of Acts.
Effective December 31, 1956, an Act creating a Commissioner of Roads and Revenues for McDuffie County and providing that the Judge of the Probate Court of McDuffie County be such commissioner, approved February 1, 1939 (1939 Ga. Laws, page 658), as amended by an Act approved March 3, 1939 (1939 Ga. Laws, page 662), and an Act approved February 1, 1952 (1952 Ga. Laws, page 2267), is hereby repealed in its entirety, and beginning January 1, 1957, the Judge of the Probate Court of McDuffie County shall no longer be the Commissioner of Roads and Revenues of McDuffie County.
Section 2. - Creation.
There is hereby created a Board of Commissioners for McDuffie County, to be composed of three members. Such board shall come into existence January 1, 1957, with the first members thereof being elected in 1956, as hereinafter provided.
Section 3. - Election; qualifications of members.
(a)
For the purposes of electing the members of the board, McDuffie County is hereby divided into two commissioner districts. Commissioner District Number 1 shall be composed of all that portion of the county north of a line beginning at the western end of Highways 12 and 278 (Warren County line), then east to the city limits of Thomson, then generally northeast around the city limits of Thomson to Highway 223 and Hickory Hill Drive, then east along Hickory Hill Drive to Lumpkin Street, then east along Lumpkin Street to Gordon Street, then east along Gordon Street to Holt Street, then east along Holt Street to White Oak Street, then east along White Oak Street to the city limits and Highway 223, then generally northeast along the city limits to the easternmost intersection of Highway 223 and the city limits and then east to the Columbia County line. Commissioner District Number 2 shall be composed of the remainder of McDuffie County and the City of Thomson, being all those parts that lie south of Commissioner District Number 1.
(b)
One member of the board of commissioners shall be elected from Commissioner District Number 1 and one member shall be elected from Commissioner District Number 2. Any person offering as a candidate to represent a commissioner district must reside in the district from which he offers and shall be elected solely by the voters of said district. A candidate must establish residency in a district in which he offers as a candidate at least by the date on which he qualifies as a candidate. One member, who shall be the chairman, shall be elected at large by the voters of the entire county and such member may reside anywhere within the county. A candidate must receive a majority of the votes cast for the district for which he is offering or for the chairman position if he is running at large for the position of chairman. All members shall be elected for a term of office of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
Upon any member elected from a district moving his residency outside of said district, such office shall become vacant and the vacancy shall be filled as provided by this Act.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 2536; 1978 Ga. Laws, page 3658)
Section 4. - Additional qualifications.
In addition to the qualifications provided in Section 3 above, any person in order to be eligible to serve as a member of the board must be at least 21 years old, must have resided in McDuffie County for at least one year immediately preceding the date of the election and must be qualified and registered to vote for members of the General Assembly.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3658)
Section 5. - Oath.
Before entering upon their duties, the members of the board shall take an oath to faithfully perform their duties under this Act and the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, which oath shall be administered by the Judge of the Probate Court of McDuffie County.
Section 6. - Filling vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs on the board for any reason other than expiration of the member's term of office, it shall be filled by a person selected by the remaining members of the board, and such person shall serve as hereinafter provided. If such vacancy occurs within a period of not more than six months prior to the date of the election at which the successor to the member causing the vacancy is to be elected, the person filling the vacancy shall serve for the unexpired term. If the vacancy occurs at any other time, a special election must be called by the Judge of the Probate Court of McDuffie County, not more than thirty days after the date such vacancy occurs, and such election must be held on a day not less than twenty nor more than thirty days from the date of the issuance of the call. The Judge of the Probate Court shall conduct such election. The person elected at such election shall serve for the unexpired term.
Section 7. - Salaries.
(a)
The chairman of the board shall receive an annual salary of $35,000.00, to be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of McDuffie County. The chairman shall be entitled to receive future increases in salary which shall be the same dollar amount as any increases in salary which shall be received by the sheriff of McDuffie County.
(b)
The chairman shall devote his full time to the duties of his office.
(c)
The remaining two members of the board shall each receive a salary of $7,500.00 per year to be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of McDuffie County. The commission shall be authorized to set, in its discretion, an expense allowance amount for members of the board other than the chairman, provided that such expense allowance may be used solely for reimbursement of expenses incurred by the commissioners outside of McDuffie County.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 4521; 1987 Ga. Laws, page 4304; 1989 Ga. Laws, page 3897)
Section 8. - Clerk of the board.
The chairman of the board is hereby authorized to employ a clerk for the board, who shall be compensated in the amount of $125.00 per month, to be paid from the funds of McDuffie County. It shall be the duty of the clerk to keep the minutes and records of all proceedings of the board and to discharge such other duties as the board may prescribe.
Section 9. - Bonds.
Before entering upon the discharge of their duties, the members of the board and the clerk shall each give bond in the sum of $10,000.00 with a surety company authorized to do business in Georgia, as surety, payable to the Judge of the Probate Court of McDuffie County, for the use of McDuffie County. Such bond shall be conditioned for the satisfactory performance by the members and the clerk of the duties of their offices, and for a true accounting of all monies and effects of said county, coming under their custody, possession, or control. Such bonds shall be filed in the office of the Judge of the Probate Court and shall be recorded upon his minutes. The premium on such bonds shall be paid from the funds of McDuffie County.
Section 10. - Jurisdiction and control.
The board of commissioners shall have exclusive jurisdiction and control over the following matters, to wit: In managing and controlling all property of the county as they may deem it for the best interest of the county according to law; in levying general taxes for general purposes and special taxes for special purposes, according to law; in establishing, maintaining or abolishing all roads, bridges, and ferries, according to law; in having an accounting with all county officers charged with receipt and disbursement of county funds, and bringing them to a settlement; in establishing or abolishing or changing election precincts or militia districts; in providing for the paupers of the county; the promotion of the health of the county, in accordance with law; in examining the tax digests of the county and the correction of errors therein; in regulating and fixing license fees as may be provided by law; in supplying by appointment all vacancies in county offices and ordering elections to fill the same; in examining, settling and allowing all claims against the county; in establishing, maintaining and working the chain gang on the public roads and bridges of said county, or public property or buildings, or schoolgrounds or schoolhouses or for other uses or purposes to be determined in the discretion of the board of commissioners of said county, as provided by law; in electing and appointing all officers and employees of said county, whose election is not provided for by law, and in fixing their duties and compensation and in making all rules and regulations covering the scope and duty of such officers and employees; in fixing a commutation road tax, or the number of days of work in lieu thereof, according to law; and in trying and punishing road defaulters; and to have and exercise all the powers heretofore vested by law in the probate court judges of the counties of Georgia when sitting for county purposes, and to exercise all other such powers as are granted by law, or as may be indispensable to their jurisdiction over county matters or county finances, including the power to administer oaths, subpoena witnesses and punish for contempt. The enumeration of powers and duties hereinbefore made shall not be construed as a limitation of the powers of the board to such powers expressly enumerated. The board is hereby expressly given complete power, authority, and control relative to county matters of McDuffie County.
Section 11. - Monthly meetings.
The board shall hold a regular monthly meeting on the first Wednesday of each month and may hold such other meetings as deemed advisable upon the call of the chairman.
ARTICLE II. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the 1992 act of the general assembly which provides for the method of filling vacancies on the board of the Hospital Authority of McDuffie County, for terms of office and for term limitations. It may be cited as 1992 Ga. Laws, page 6604. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-201 et seq.

Section 1. - Vacancies; appointments.
Appointments to fill vacancies on the board of the Hospital Authority of McDuffie County for either an unexpired or full term shall be made in the following manner:
(1)
The governing body of the area of operation shall submit a list of three eligible persons to the board of the hospital authority.
(2)
The board at its next regular meeting shall either select one of the three persons named in such list or decline to select any of the persons named in the list. If the board declines to select any of the persons named on the list, it shall so notify the governing body.
(3)
Upon receipt of notification that the board has declined to select any of the persons named in the governing body's list, the governing body shall submit a second list of three eligible persons, no one of whom was named on the first list, to the board of the hospital authority. The board at its next regular meeting after receipt of the second list shall select one of the three persons named in the second list.
(4)
The board shall be composed so as to include a representative cross section of the residents of McDuffie County and shall include one member who shall be the chief of medical staff of the McDuffie County Hospital and other members who have experience in the areas of finance and business management.
Section 2. - Terms of office.
Members of the board of the hospital authority shall be appointed for terms of office of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Commencing with terms of office beginning on or after the effective date of this Act, no members shall succeed themselves more than once until after the expiration of four years from the conclusion of their second term of office.
Section 3. - Authority of Act.
This Act is enacted pursuant to the authority of O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72(c).
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE
This table shows the location of the sections of the Georgia Laws cited in the Related Laws.
EXPAND
Year Page Section this
Related Laws
1955 2331 Art. I
1972 2536 Art. I, § 3
1978 3658 Art. I, § 3, Art. I, § 4
1984 4521 Art. I, § 7
1987 4304 Art. I, § 7
1989 3897 Art. I, § 7
1992 6604 Art. II
