ARTICLE III. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Section 3.01. - Districts.
The City of Sylvester is hereby divided into ten classes of districts known as follows:
EXPAND
AG Agricultural-limited residential district
R-1 Single-family residential district
R-2 One-[family], two-[family] and multiple-family residential districts
R-PUD Residential planned unit development district
R-OI Restricted office-institutional district
C-1 Commercial (central business) district
C-2 General commercial district
C-PUD Commercial planned unit development district
M Manufacturing district
FH Flood hazard district
  Section 3.02. - Limited use (LU) provision.
The City of Sylvester "limited use" provision exists for the purpose of allowing an applicant to request that a certain area be designated as a limited use. In some areas of the city, a particular land use activity out of a general zoning classification may have less community impact than some of the possibilities of uses in that specific classification. For this reason, an applicant may request in his rezoning petition to limit the use of a proposed property to a specified use only (i.e., C-1 LU), to wit: Community business district limited to a "beauty shop." The limited use must be among the uses permitted in the zone classification for which the limited use is taken.
Section 3.03. - District boundaries.
The boundaries of the above districts are shown on a map designated "Official Zoning Map, City of Sylvester, Georgia." Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning maps, the following rules shall apply:
A.
Where zoning district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerlines of roads or highways, or railroad right-of-way lines extended, such centerlines or railroad right-of-way lines or such lines extended shall be construed to be such boundaries.
B.
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the city line, such city line shall be construed to be such boundaries.
C.
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets or highways, such district boundaries, unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at a distance of 200 feet from the right-of-way line of such streets and highways, each above district boundary being shown at scale on the official zoning map of the City of Sylvester, Georgia.
D.
Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of stream beds or river beds, such centerlines or such lines extended shall be construed to be such boundaries.
Section 3.04. - District boundary lines dividing a lot of single ownership.
Where a district boundary line, as appearing on the zoning map, divides a lot in single ownership at the time of the enactment of these regulations, the requirements for the district in which the greater portion of the lot lines shall be extended to the balance of the lot, provided that such extension will not include any part of such lot more than 35 feet beyond the district boundary line and, provided further, that this provision shall not apply to a through lot. In the case of a through lot, the restriction of the district applying to the adjoining lots which front on the same street as the proposed use of the lot shall apply; a through lot being a lot that runs from street to street.
