ARTICLE X. - AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT

Section 10.01. - AG agricultural district [statement of purpose].
The [AG] agricultural district is established as a district in which the principal use of land is for low density single-family residential areas. Also permitted are rural agricultural uses, such as farming, dairying, forestry operations and other agricultural related activities.
Section 10.02. - Permitted uses.
[Permitted uses in the AG district shall include the following:]
A.
Accessory residential uses, including, but not limited to, a private garage, detached home workshop, swimming pool, or greenhouse, all of which shall be incidental to the use of the property as a residence.
B.
Accessory farm uses, including the sale of products grown on the premises, and the keeping of livestock or poultry.
C.
Agricultural, dairying, forestry or horticulture uses.
D.
Rural businesses (as defined in article II).
E.
Open air businesses (as defined in article II).
F.
Commercial fishing ponds.
G.
Farm stands (provided adequate parking is available).
H.
Residences:
1.
Single-family;
2.
Mobile and modular homes.
Section 10.03. - Conditional uses.
[Conditional uses permitted in the AG district shall include the following:]
A.
Reserved.
B.
Customary home occupations (as defined and restricted in article II).
C.
Reserved.
D.
Fraternal organizations or private clubs.
E.
Nursery schools or kindergartens, and day care centers.
F.
Recreational and/or cultural uses of a commercial nature.
G.
Residences:
1.
Two-family;
2.
Group homes;
3.
Half-way homes.
H.
Churches, provided that the proposed site for a church is not less than one acre and required off-street parking is provided.
I.
Public, parochial and private elementary, intermediate, and/or high schools.
J.
Publicly owned and operated buildings, libraries, parks and recreational facilities.
K.
Public and private hospitals, provided that the hospital is adjacent to a major thoroughfare.
L.
Kennels (noise buffers or barriers may be required to protect adjacent residential properties).
M.
All radio, cellular phone, or similar transmission/receiving towers.
N.
Group lodges.
O.
Hunting lodges and cabins. (Note: It is recommended that hunting plantations be zoned as part of agricultural districts).
Section 10.04. - Area, height and setback requirements.
[Area, height and setback requirements in the R-OI district shall be] in accordance with the schedule of regulations [as set forth in] article XIX.
