ARTICLE XX. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 200. - Planning commission.
200.1. Membership.
200.1.1. The Planning Commission shall consist of seven (7) members, who shall be residents of the City of Kingsland, Georgia appointed by the Mayor and Council as follows: Each Councilman shall appoint one (1) member, the Mayor shall appoint two (2) members, the Council as a body shall appoint one (1) member.
200.1.2. The terms of the members shall be for two (2) years with terms to be staggered.
200.1.3. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Mayor or Council member who appointed the vacating member. The Mayor or Council shall have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. Four (4) members shall constitute a quorum.
200.1.4. All members may receive compensation as determined by Mayor and Council.
200.2. Organization, Rules, Staff, Finances.
200.2.1. The Planning Commission shall elect its Chairman from among its members. The term of the Chairman shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The Chairman shall be a voting member of the Commission.
200.2.2. The Planning Commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the City.
200.2.3. All meeting of the Planning Commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the Planning Commission shall be a public record.
200.2.4. The Planning Commission may request such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may request contracts with state planning agencies and city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require. All requests shall be submitted to the Mayor and Council for approval or rejection.
200.2.5. The expenditures of the Planning Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purposes by the City Council.
Sec. 201. - Duties and powers of the planning commission.
It shall be the function and duty of the Kingsland Planning Commission to prepare for Council approval such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social, and economic growth as will best promote public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of its political jurisdiction. In particular, the Commission shall have the power and the duty to:
201.1. Prepare a master plan or parts thereof for the development of the City of Kingsland.
201.2. Prepare and recommend for adoption to the Mayor and Council of Zoning Decisions.
201.3. Prepare and recommend for adoption to the Mayor and Council regulations for the subdivision of land within its political jurisdiction, and to administer the regulations that may be adopted.
201.4. Prepare and recommend for adoption to the Mayor and Council, a plat or plats of an official map showing the exact location of the boundary lines of existing, proposed, extended, widened or narrowed streets, public open spaces or public building sites, together with regulations to control the erection of buildings or other structures within such lines, within its political jurisdiction or a specified portion thereof.
201.5. To hear and make recommendations to Mayor and Council on special exceptions of the terms of this Ordinance upon which said Commission is required to pass under this Ordinance.
201.6. To authorize in specific cases such variances from the terms of this Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance will in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this Ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted by Planning Commission in such individual cases of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the Planning Commission that:
201.6.1. There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography; and
201.6.2. The applications of this Ordinance to the particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship; and
In addition, unincorporated areas adjacent to municipalities may be added to and included in the area under the jurisdiction of the Planning Commission for general planning and for master plan preparation and for the preparation and administration of Zoning Ordinances or Resolutions, land subdivision regulations, and official maps, provided that the governing bodies of the county and municipality shall agree to the boundaries of such additional areas, procedures for the adoption and administration of ordinances and resolutions, and regulations apply to the area, and the manner of obtaining equitable representation on the Planning Commission. Such agreement shall be formally established by appropriate official action by the governing authorities involved.
The Planning Commission may make, publish, and distribute maps, plans and reports and recommendations relating to the plan and development of its political jurisdiction to public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, education, professional and other organizations and citizens. It may recommend to the executive or legislative officials of its political jurisdiction programs for public improvements and the financing thereof. All public officials shall, upon request, furnish, to the Planning Commission within a reasonable time, such available information as it requires for its work. The Planning Commission, its members and employees, in the performance of its functions, may enter upon any land, make examinations and surveys and place and maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon, provided, however, that the Planning Commission shall not be liable for any injury or damage to property resulting therefrom. In general, the Planning Commission shall have powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote the planning in the City of Kingsland.
201.7. Quorum and Meetings. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum; however, no application for approval shall be denied except by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board. The Board shall meet as necessary.
