ARTICLE XVII. - REQUIRED SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 170. - Monuments.
Right-of-way and property line monuments shall be placed in each subdivision in accordance with the following:
170.1. Right-of-Way Monuments. A concrete marker imbedded at least two (2) feet into the ground shall be required at the intersection of the centerline of all street rights-of-way. Such concrete markers shall be at least four (4) inches in diameter. The top surface of such concrete marker shall be level with the surface of the street.
170.2. Property Line Monuments. An iron pin or concrete marker at least two (2) feet into the ground shall be required at each lot corner and each point where the property line changes direction. Such an iron shall be at least three-quarters (¾) of an inch in diameter. The top surface of such iron pin shall be approximately level with the ground surface. Such concrete marker shall be at least four (4) inches in diameter. The top surface of such concrete marker shall be approximately level with the ground surface.
Sec. 171. - Special classification of streets for construction.
All streets shall be classified for construction purposes only as follows:
171.1. Standard Street. A standard street shall be paved, curbed and guttered in accordance with the specifications required herein, and shall be required in all zoning districts. Right-of-way width requirements shall be in accordance with Section 162 herein.
Sec. 172. - Additional street design requirements.
172.1. Grades, Horizontal Curves, Tangents and Sight Distances. The following street design requirements shall be adhered to in addition to other requirements stated herein:
EXPAND
Expressways,
Freeways and
Arterial Streets Collector
Streets Other
Streets
Maximum street grades 6% 8% 12%
Minimum radii of center line curvature 800' 500' 100'
Minimum length of tangent between reverse curves 300' 200' 100'
Minimum stopping sight distance 350' 240' 200'
  172.2. Vertical Curves. All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical curves of minimum length in feet equal to fifteen (15) times the algebraic difference in percent of grades for expressways, freeways, arterial and collector streets, and one-half (½) this minimum length for other streets. Profiles of all streets showing natural and finished grades drawn to a scale of not less than one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet horizontally and one (1) inch equals twenty (20) feet vertically may be required by the Commission.
Sec. 173. - Basic construction requirements for all streets.
173.1. Grading. All streets, roads and alleys shall be graded to their full width by the sub-divider so that pavements and sidewalks can be constructed on the same level plane. The preparation of the right-of-way before grading is started and the construction of cuts and fills shall be accomplished in accordance with the requirements herein and other specifications of the Council.
173.2. Storm Drainage. An adequate drainage system based on at least the ten (10) year rainfall frequency, including necessary curb, pipes, culverts, headwalls, and ditches, shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water.
173.3. Installation of Utilities. After grading is completed and approved and before any base is applied, all of the underground utilities (water mains, sewer mains, gas mains, or any other underground utilities), and all service connections related thereto, shall be installed completely and proved throughout the length of the street and across the flat section. Service connections for sanitary sewer and water shall be extended to the right-of-way lines.
173.4. Slopes and Shoulder Improvements. The minimum ratio for all fill or cut slopes shall be two (2) to one (1) and the minimum width for all shoulders from back edge of the curb, if installed, shall be eight (8) feet. All shoulders shall slope one-half (½) inch to the foot. When all construction is completed, all slopes and shoulders shall be cleared of all rubbish and shall have a stand of grass to prevent undue erosion, either by sprigging or seeding.
173.5. Accel/Decel Lanes. Accel/decel lanes are to be provided if required under Section 161.10 of this Ordinance.
Sec. 174. - Roadway surfacing and paving.
For Standard Streets, the following minimum requirements shall be adhered to for the surfacing and paving of said streets:
174.1. Pavement Base. The pavement bases, not including the surface courses, shall be one of the following types and shall be of the following minimum thickness as designed for each street:
EXPAND
Other Streets Collector
Streets Expressways,
Freeways and
Arterial Streets
Graded Aggregate Base 6" 7" 8"
Soil Bituminous Stabilized Base 6" 7" 8"
Soil Bound Macadam Base 6" 7" 8"
Soil Cement Base 6" 7" 8"
Sand Clay Base 6" 7" 8"
  174.2. Thickness of Pavement. The pavement shall be one of the following types and shall be designated for each street classification:
EXPAND
Other Streets Collector
Streets Expressways,
Freeways and
Arterial Streets
Portland Cement Surface 6" 6" 8"
Asphalt Concrete Surface 1½" 3"* 3½"**
  * The 3 inches consists of a 1½ inch Binder and a 1½ inch surface.
** The 3½ inches consists of a 2 inch Binder and a 1½ inch surface.
174.3. Minimum Pavement Width. All minor residential streets shall have a minimum pavement width of twenty-three (23) feet from back of curb to back of curb. Curb radius of intersecting streets must have a minimum pavement width of 30'. All other street width requirements shall be determined by the Commission and the Council as required.
174.4. Pavement Breaks for Utility Connections. When it is necessary for a subdivider, or any utility company, to break existing pavement for the installation of utilities, for drainage facilities, or for any other purposes, the sub-divider, or utility company, shall be financially responsible for the repair of the pavement. The pavement shall be in accordance with the specifications required herein for construction of streets.
174.5. Curbs and Gutters. Either the regular six (6) inch or four (4) inch roll-over concrete curbs and gutters with a minimum over-all width of eighteen (18") inches shall be constructed on all Standard Streets. Cement Concrete Valley Gutter shall be permitted across minor residential streets at street intersections only when no storm sewers are available as determined by the zoning enforcement officer. Valley gutters shall be at least six (6) feet in width. Whenever driveway openings are provided for lots abutting the street, the driveway shall be six (6) inches thick and a minimum of ten (10) feet in width at the sidewalk or at the street right-of-way line. The driveway shall have a minimum three (3) foot radii at the curb line.
174.6. Temporary Turnarounds. Temporary turnarounds shall be required at the discretion of the Commission. Said turnarounds shall consist of a Tack coat with one (1) inch of asphalt.
174.7. Street Signs/Stop Signs. Before a Certificate of Occupancy will be issued, the developer, at his expense, shall install a street sign at each intersection, or wherever one street joins another, as well as stop signs at appropriate intersections, in accordance with City specifications. Said street sign and stop sign placement shall be shown on the appropriate plans for approval by the City.
174.8. Quality Control and Testing Requirements. It will be the responsibility of the developer or his authorized representative to insure that all tests required are made. The cost of all testing and quality control will be performed at the expense of the developer by qualified testing laboratories approved by the Commission.
EXPAND
Type of test to be performed Minimum number of
tests to be performed Testing Standards
Sub-grade compaction
(Density in place) One (1) per 500 L.F.
of roadway 95% Max. Density
ATSM-1557
Field Tests
ASTM D-1556
F-2922 & D-2167
Base Compaction One (1) per 500 L.F.
of roadway 100% Max. Density
ASTM-1557
Field Test-ASTM
D-1556, D-2922 &
D-2167
Asphaltic Concrete
(Density in place) One (1) per 1,000 L.F.
of roadway 92% Laboratory
Density
Asphaltic Concrete
(Thickness in cores) Intervals not to
exceed 500 L.F. Deficient in thickness not more than ½"
  In all test reports, thickness of base and asphaltic concrete will be shown.
174.9. Certificates of Occupancy: No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued and no building erected following the enactment of this Ordinance shall be occupied unless the street giving access to the lot upon which the building is placed has been accepted, opened as, or shall have otherwise received the status of a public street or an officially approved private recorded easement.
(Amend. of 7-23-2007)
Sec. 175. - Installation of utilities.
175.1. Water/Fire Hydrants.
(A) Water: Water mains for both domestic use and fire protection shall be properly sized by the City and connected with the public system. The lines shall be constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve the subdivision, but in no event smaller than 8". The lines shall be sized and installed in conformance with Water Specifications for the City of Kingsland. No water line can be covered up until tested by the City for proper installation, pressure tested, and disinfected in accordance with City standards. The governing body may participate in sharing the costs of construction and installation of water systems for any difference in the cost to lay oversized pipe and outfall systems which are needed in excess of the required water facilities needed to exclusively serve the new subdivision as determined by Mayor and Council. Developers/Contractors shall meet the requirements of the City's Back Flow Prevention Program.
(B) Fire Hydrants: The sub-divider shall incur the cost of installing fire hydrants within the development placed at intervals not less than 500 feet apart, unless such development is within high density areas, to include commercial and apartment complexes, in which case fire hydrants are to be placed no more than 350 feet apart. After proper installation, and before any Certificate of Occupancy is issued, said fire hydrant(s) shall be inspected, tested and approved by the Kingsland Fire Department.
(C) Water Lines/Fire Hydrants Outside City Limits: Any water lines installed outside the City limits for connection to the City water system will become the property of the City once the lines are completed, operational, meet all City requirements, and have been accepted by the City. Any developer installing water lines outside the City limits for connection to the City water system will also be required to install fire hydrants, which will become the City's property once the hydrants are inspected, tested and accepted by the City. Water lines and fire hydrants shall be installed following the same requirements for developers within the City limits.
175.2. Sewer. A publicly connected sanitary sewer system shall be installed and the sub-divider shall incur the cost for the installation of all sewer systems which are required to serve the new subdivision, including the cost of installing and tying in with the existing water system. No sewer line can be covered up until tested by the City for proper installation in accordance with City standards. The governing body may participate in sharing the costs of construction and installation of sewer systems for any difference in the cost of oversized pipe and outfall systems which are needed in excess of the required sewer facilities needed to exclusively serve the new subdivision as determined by Mayor and Council. All sewer facilities shall be installed in accordance with the standards of the Department of Human Resources of the State of Georgia and with the Sewer Specifications for the City of Kingsland.
175.3. Gas. When gas mains are connected with the gas distribution system, the lines shall be installed in such a manner as to serve adequately all lots shown on the subdivision plats. The gas line shall be constructed in conformance with the gas specifications for Georgia Natural Gas Company.
175.4. Underground Electrical System. The subdivider shall install an underground electrical system, and provide the Director of Community Planning and Development with detailed plans showing the exact location of the lines.
175.4.1. Overhead Street Lighting. The sub-divider shall provide terminal facilities and lighting fixtures for street lighting. Placement of such fixtures shall be approved by the City.
175.4.2. Cost of Overhead Street Lighting. The sub-divider shall assume the entire cost for installation of terminal street lighting fixtures.
Sec. 176. - Sidewalks.
176.1. Sidewalk Dimensions. Sidewalks shall be required within all residential subdivisions on one side of the road within said subdivision, with no cost of the sidewalk construction borne by the city. The sidewalks shall be four (4) inches thick with a minimum width of five (5) feet, unless a 10 foot width is required under Section 164.1.3. A thirty (30) inch grass-planting strip shall be provided between the back of the planting curb and the sidewalk, or at the Contractor's option, the sidewalk shall extend to the curb. All sidewalks shall slope one-fourth (1/4) inch to the foot toward the curb.
(Ord. No. 2006-14, 7-10-2006)
Sec. 177. - Administrative procedures.
The administrative procedures for installing the subdivision improvements required herein shall be as follows:
177.1. When Construction May Begin. Construction and installation of any required public improvement as described herein shall not begin until the Commission has given "Preliminary Approval" of the new subdivision. The sub-divider shall then confer with the Director of Community Planning and Development to determine the method and estimated cost of the construction and installation of the required improvements.
177.2. Plans to be Filed with the Council. Four (4) copies of all plans for streets, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, sidewalks, and other required public improvements showing the proposed plan and profile of each shall be submitted to and approved by the Planning Commission prior to beginning construction and installation of the system. The plan shall be prepared from an actual engineering survey, originating at the existing street, sewer, sidewalk and other required public improvements, prepared on standard plan and profile sheets showing cross-sections. Each system for any one new subdivision shall be prepared by a registered Professional Engineer.
177.3. Inspections and Approval by the Council. During the construction and installation of the required public improvements, the Director of Community Planning and Development shall from time to time make field inspections and supervise said work as predetermined and agreed upon by the Director of Community Planning and Development and the sub-divider. After completion of all the construction and installation of the required public improvements and if said work has met the specifications as described herein, as determined by the Director of Community Planning and Development, the Director of Community Planning and Development shall notify the sub-divider in writing of the approval of said work.
177.4. Official Acceptance by the Council. The Council shall officially accept the completed work on the construction and installation of required public improvements one (1) year from the date of the written acceptance by the Director of Community Planning and Development.
177.5. Performance Bond. If the developer does not wish to construct and install any required public improvements as described herein prior to submitting the subdivision, bond shall be required as provided for in Section 153.7, such bond being equal to the estimated cost of construction, the Council shall release ninety (90) percent of the funds in escrow with a letter of approval to the sub-divider. The remaining ten (10) percent shall remain in escrow for maintenance purposes.
177.6. Maintenance of Completed Work. The developer shall maintain his completed work until the official acceptance by the Council, as described in Section 177.4. above. The sub-divider shall be required to sign a maintenance agreement with the Council.
If a maintenance bond is posted by the developer a bond equating ten (10) percent for the construction cost shall be required. During the maintenance period, the Director of Community Planning and Development shall make final inspection and notify the developer and the bonding company, or in cases where funds are being held in escrow, the cost for making such corrections shall be deducted from these funds, and the developer charged with any costs above the amount of escrow funds. If the work is acceptable at the time, the remaining ten (10) percent of the escrow funds shall be released to the developer.
177.7. Cost of Improvements.
177.7.1. Developer's Responsibility. The developer shall incur the cost of construction and installation of all required public improvements based on the following:
(1) Streets. Incur the cost for the construction of streets up to twenty-seven (27) feet in pavement width from back of curb to back of curb.
(2) Water and Sewer Systems. Incur the cost for the installation of all water and sewer systems which is required to serve the new subdivision and tie in with existing water and sewer systems, based on the specifications set forth herein.
(3) Monuments. Entire cost.
177.7.2. Council's Responsibility. The Council shall partially participate in sharing the cost of construction and installation of required public improvements for the following conditions:
(1) Streets. Incur cost for any additional required pavement which is in excess of twenty-seven (27) feet for streets with curbs and gutters, and any additional grading and paving related thereto.
177.7.3. Property Owner's Responsibility. Whenever the City Council is petitioned by the property owners to up-grade an existing substandard street to a standard street, the property owners shall then incur the entire cost for said improvements based on the footage along the property line of each lot abutting the street which is being improved and on the requirements in Section 177.7 above.
177.7.4. Estimated Costs for Construction and Installation. The current unit prices in effect at the time of submission of plans shall be used in determining the total estimated cost for construction and installation of required public improvements in new subdivisions.
177.8. "As Built" Plans. The developer will provide the City of Kingsland two (2) sets of "As Built" plans based upon actual work constructed. Record drawing will show references for valve and person-hole locations, distances between person-holes and utility service locations.
(Amend. of 7-23-2007)
