ARTICLE VIII. - SPECIAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 80. - Mobile homes and travel trailers.
80.1. Travel Trailer Parks. In any district where travel trailer parks are permitted, the applicant shall submit a lay-out of the park subject to the following conditions:
80.1.1. No travel trailer park shall be located except with direct access to a County, State or Federal Highway, with a minimum lot width of not less than fifty (50) feet for portion used for entrance and exit. No entrance or exit shall be through a residential district, or shall require movement of traffic from the park through a residential district.
80.1.2. The minimum lot area per park shall be five (5) acres.
80.1.3. Spaces in travel trailer parks may be used by travel trailers provided they meet any additional laws and ordinances of the Council.
80.1.4. Management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, showers, laundry facilities and other uses and structures customarily incidental to the operation of a trailer park are permitted as accessory uses in any district in which trailer parks are allowed, provided:
(1) Such establishments and the parking area primarily related to their operations shall not occupy more than ten (10) percent of the area of the park.
(2) Such establishments shall be restricted in their use to occupants of the park.
(3) Such establishments shall present no visible evidence of their commercial character which would attract customers other than occupants of the park.
80.1.5 No space shall be so located that any park intended for occupancy for sleeping purposes shall be within fifty (50) feet of the right-of-way line of any freeway, expressway, or collector street, or within twenty-five (25) feet of the right-of-way of any minor street.
80.1.6. In addition to meeting the above requirements, the travel trailer park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval of the Camden County Health Department.
80.2. Mobile Home Parks. In any district where mobile home parks are permitted, the applicant shall submit a lay-out of the park subject to the following conditions:
80.2.1. The following minimum standards shall apply to each mobile home space or stand:
(1) Minimum size: (square feet) .....7,500
(2) Minimum width of space: .....50 feet
(3) Minimum depth of space: .....100 feet
(4) Minimum side yard required: .....10 feet
(5) Minimum front yard: .....25 feet
(6) Minimum rear yard: .....15 feet
(7) Minimum lot area per park: .....5 acres
(8) Minimum lot width for portion used for entrance and exit shall be fifty (50) feet
(9) No mobile home shall be located closer than thirty-five (35) to the centerline of any roadway within the park.
80.2.2. The minimum number of spaces completed and ready for occupancy before the first occupancy is permitted shall be ten (10) spaces.
80.2.3. No mobile home shall be admitted to any park unless it can be demonstrated that it meets the requirements of any additional laws and ordinances of the Council.
80.2.4. Convenience establishments of a commercial nature, including stores, laundry and dry cleaning agencies, and beauty shops and barber shops, may be permitted in mobile home parks provided that such establishments and the parking areas primarily related to their operations:
(1) Shall not occupy more than ten (10) percent of the area of the park;
(2) Shall be subordinate to the residential use and character of the park;
(3) Shall be located, designed and intended to serve frequent trade or service needs of persons residing in the park;
(4) Shall present no visible evidence to their commercial character from any portion of any residential district outside that park.
80.2.5. In addition to meeting the above requirements the mobile home park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the Camden County Health Department.
80.3. Mobile Home Subdivisions. In any district where mobile home subdivisions are permitted, the applicant shall submit a lay-out of the park subject to the following conditions:
80.3.1. The minimum size of plat developed into a mobile home subdivision shall be five (5) acres.
80.3.2. Minimum lot area and lot width and minimum lot coverage shall conform to requirements set forth in Section 70.3.4.
80.4. Temporary Usage. A single mobile home unit, or travel trailer may be used for an office in a subdivision by the developer, or for other special purposes, for a period not to exceed six (6) months upon written approval from the Director of Community Planning and Development; if over six (6) months approval of Council.
80.5. Non-Conformance. Any travel trailer or mobile home which does not meet the requirements in the above paragraphs shall be removed at the owners expense after receipt of notice of its non-conformance from the Director of Community Planning and Development.
{Also see Section 70.1.2 Additional Requirements Governing MH, Mobile Home Park District}
(Amend. of 7-23-2007)
Sec. 81. - Townhouses.
Within the districts permitting townhouses, the following requirements shall apply:
81.1. No more than ten (10) nor fewer than three (3) continuous townhouses shall be built in a row with approximately the same front lot.
81.2. No side yard is required except that on corner and interior lots. The end of the building in any townhouse grouping shall conform to the side yard requirements of that district.
81.3. Not more than forty (40) percent of the lot area shall be occupied by building.
81.4. Insofar as practicable, off-street parking facilities shall be grouped in bays, either adjacent to streets or in the interior of blocks; and no off-street parking space shall be more than 100 feet by most direct pedestrian route, from a door of the dwelling unit it intends to serve.
81.5. All townhouse complexes shall be required to tie into the public sanitary sewer system. No other means of waste disposal shall be permitted.
81.6. All other requirements within the district in which the townhouses are located shall prevail.
Sec. 82. - Accessory and temporary buildings.
82.1. Accessory Buildings. The location of accessory buildings and uses in residential districts must meet the following requirements:
82.1.1. Where an accessory building is attached to the main building, a substantial part of one wall of the accessory building shall be an integral part of the main building or such accessory building shall be attached to the main building in a substantial manner by a roof, and therefore such requirements applicable to the main building.
82.1.2. A detached accessory building shall not be closer than ten (10) feet to the main building, nor closer than five (5) feet to any lot line, provided that accessory buildings on corner lots adjacent to public rights-of-way shall meet the setback requirements for corner lots in Section 71.
82.1.3. A detached accessory building, not more than two (2) stories in height, may be constructed on not more than thirty (30) percent of the rear yard.
82.1.4. No detached accessory building may be located on the front yard of a lot.
82.2. Temporary Buildings. Temporary buildings used in conjunction with construction work only, may be permitted in any district and shall be removed immediately upon completion of construction.
(Ord. No. 2008-05, 3-10-2008)
Sec. 83. - Fall-out shelters.
Fall out shelters are permissible as principal or accessory uses and structures in any district, subject to the following conditions:
83.1. If any portion of the structures extend above the ground, that portion above must comply with the yard and lot coverage regulations of the district in which it is located, and the site plan for such shelter must be approved by the Director of Community Planning and Development.
83.2. If the structure is completely underground, it need not comply with the yard requirements or percentage of lot coverage requirements.
83.3. A fall-out shelter, underground or above ground, shall be confined to a side or rear yard and shall not be located in the front yard between the main building and the street on which it fronts.
83.4. Fall-out shelters may contain or be contained in other structures or may be constructed separately.
Sec. 84. - Car ports.
Car ports are permissible as are permissible in all residential zoning districts, subject to the following conditions:
84.1. All portions of a car port must comply with the yard setback and lot coverage regulations of the district in which it is located, and approved by the Director of Community Planning and Development.
84.2. All portions of a car port must comply with the currently adopted State of Georgia Building Codes, including but not limited to applications for permits and wind speed requirements by location.
(Ord. No. 2005-05, 5-9-2005)
Sec. 85. - Automobile service stations.
Within the districts permitting automobile service stations, the following requirements shall apply:
85.1. Location. The property on which an automobile service station is located shall not be within 100 feet of any residential district, or any property containing a school, public playground, church, hospital, public library, institution for children or dependents.
85.2. Site Requirements. An automobile service station shall have a minimum frontage on the primary street of 120 feet and a minimum area of 12,000 square feet. All buildings shall be set back 40 feet from all street right-of-way lines and all canopies shall be setback fifteen (15) feet from all street right-of-way lines.
85.3. Access to Site. Vehicular entrances or exits at the automobile service station:
85.3.1 Shall not be provided with more than two curb cuts for the first 120 feet of street frontage or fraction thereof.
85.3.2. Shall contain an access width along the curb line of the street of not more than forty (40) feet as measured parallel to the street at its narrowest point and shall not be located closer than twenty (20) feet to a street intersection or closer than ten (10) feet to the adjoining property.
85.3.3. Shall not have any two driveways, or curb cuts, any closer than twenty (20) feet at both the right-of-way line and the curb or edge of the pavement along a single street.
85.4. Gasoline Pump Islands. All gasoline pump islands shall be setback at least fifteen (15) feet from the right-of-way line, or where a future widening line has been established, the setback line shall be measured from such line; and where pump islands are constructed perpendicular to the right-of-way line, the pump island shall be located not less than thirty (30) feet back of the right-of-way line; however, the pumps shall be at least sixty (60) feet from the center line of an arterial street, fifty-five (55) feet from the center line on a collector street, and forty-five (45) feet from the center line of other streets.
85.5. Off-Street Parking. A minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces required with an additional off-street parking space for each lubrication and wash bay.
85.6. Other Site Improvements. In addition to the above requirements, the following additional site improvements shall be adhered to:
85.6.1. A raised curb of at least six (6) inches in height shall be erected along the street property lines, except for driveway openings.
85.6.2. A solid fence or wall six (6) feet in height shall be erected along all adjacent property lines facing any adjacent residential lot.
85.6.3. Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that it is deflected away from adjacent properties.
85.6.4. Signs, whether permanent or temporary, shall not be placed within the public right-of-way and shall not obstruct visibility for drivers or pedestrians.
85.6.5. All driveways, parking, storage, and service areas shall be paved and curbed and a good stand of grass shall be maintained on the remainder of the lot.
85.7. Storage of Inflammable Products. Outside above ground tanks for the storage of gasoline, liquified petroleum gas, oil or other inflammable liquids or gases shall be prohibited at any automobile service station in all zoning districts.
(Amend. of 7-23-2007)
