Chapter 18 - SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Flood damage prevention, Ch. 9; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, Ch. 15; soil erosion and stormwater management, Ch. 17; streets and sidewalks, Ch. 19.
State Law reference— Authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; hazardous waste disposal, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-61 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries pursuant to contract, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ashes means the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible materials.
Approved solid waste receptacle means a garbage or refuse container approved by the director of public works or his agent. Different types of containers may be required for different customer classes.
Customer means a person, occupant, owner, residence, business, industry or any other establishment being served by the city under this chapter.
Customer class means the classification or group to which a customer is assigned according to location, frequency of pickup, volume of refuse and type of refuse.
Garbage means putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food. This also includes tin cans, paper and plastic products and miscellaneous waste products normal to a household or small business or office.
Hazardous waste means materials that can start fires, that can react or explode singularly when mixed with other materials, or that are corrosive or toxic.
Junk means units or pieces of discarded units of metal, plastic, glass or rubber, including but not limited to appliances, motor vehicles, furniture or other large discarded objects too bulky or too heavy to be placed in an approved receptacle.
Refuse means all putrescible or nonputrescible waste, except sewage or body wastes, including but not limited to garbage, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles or household goods, and solid market and industrial waste, junk, trash and rubbish.
Refuse disposal area means a disposal area approved and permitted by the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
Rubbish means nonputrescible waste, excluding ashes, consisting of both combustible and noncombustible waste, including but not limited to paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood (no trees), glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
Trash means yard and street rubbish.
Unauthorized accumulation of refuse means refuse which is stored or accumulated on any premises in the city in such a manner as to create unsanitary conditions, create fire hazards, cause offensive and obnoxious odors, provide a breeding place for insects or harboring place for vermin, invite plundering, endanger the safety of children or adults, reduce property values or in any way adversely affect the health, safety, welfare and well-being of the public.
(Ord. No. 1987-19, § 1, 12-4-87)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-2. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
Violations of any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction be punished as provided by this Code or by the Code of the State of Georgia. Failure to remedy a violation as notified may result in each successive day being a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 1987-19, § 3(4), 12-4-87)
Sec. 18-3. - Inspections; correction of violations.
The director of public works may appoint solid waste supervisors who shall have the authority, and whose duty it shall be, to make routine inspections of garbage cans, containers and solid waste collection areas, and determine their serviceability and condition. The supervisor or the director of public works shall issue a notice to the owner or occupant of the premises, informing the owner or occupant of an unacceptable condition and specifying the condition. The owner or occupant shall be given a reasonable time to correct the condition specified in the notice. Upon failure to correct the condition, the director or the supervisor shall have the duty of issuing a summons directing the responsible party to appear in the city court to answer the charge of violation of the appropriate section of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 1987-19, § 3(2), 12-4-87)
Sec. 18-4. - Burning permit.
Burning of refuse, building materials, brush, land clearing residue or any other waste materials, except in an approved incinerator or heating device, is prohibited unless a special permit has been obtained from the fire chief's office authorizing the burning.
(Ord. No. 1987-19, § 3(3), 12-4-87)
Sec. 18-5. - City collection service; materials not collected by city.
(a)
Collection generally. All solid waste accumulated in the city will be collected, conveyed and disposed of by the city, except as otherwise expressly authorized in this chapter. The director of public works or his agent is authorized, with the approval of the city council, to adopt and promulgate rules and regulations concerning solid waste collection, conveyance and disposal. Such rules and regulations shall have the force of law, and shall be supplementary to any provision of this chapter, but not contrary thereto.
(b)
Collection schedule. The city will collect solid waste in accordance with a schedule as established from time to time by the city and kept on file in the solid waste division of the department of public works and at city hall. Every effort will be made to notify citizens of changes of schedules.
(c)
Collection of dead animals. Dead animals such as dogs, house pets and small wild animals will be picked up by the city.
(d)
Disposal of hazardous materials. Hazardous materials such as acid, explosive materials, flammable liquids and dangerous or corrosive materials of any kind will not be collected. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to place any such item, product or material in any refuse can or container for collection by the city. State and federal hazardous waste laws shall be in effect, and any violations shall be reported to the Federal Environmental Protection Agency and the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
(e)
Removal of construction debris. The city shall not be responsible for collecting or hauling discarded building material, dirt, broken concrete, brickbats, rock or debris resulting from repairs, remodeling or construction. The owner of the premises, or the contractor, builder or person doing the repairs, remodeling or construction, shall be required to haul away and legally dispose of all such debris, including stumps, trees and limbs.
(f)
Removal of branches, cuttings, etc., cut by commercial contractors. The city shall not be responsible for collecting or hauling trees, stumps, bushes or other vegetation resulting from the actions of commercial tree trimmers, landscapers, grading contractors or building contractors. When a tree is cut from private property by any person, the party responsible for cutting the tree shall remove from the property and legally dispose of all wood and limbs.
(g)
Collection of branches, cuttings, etc., cut by homeowner. Tree trimmings and shrubbery cuttings resulting from the direct actions of a property owner, to be classified as trash and collected by the city, must be cut into lengths of six feet or less and be a maximum of five inches in diameter. Such trash must be placed in an orderly manner so that it can be readily handled.
(h)
Deposit of ashes. It shall be unlawful to deposit hot or cold ashes, clinkers, etc., in any refuse container or on streets, sidewalks or any public property.
(i)
Bagging of pet litter. Pet litter must be placed in securely tied plastic bags not to exceed ten pounds in weight.
(Ord. No. 1987-19, § 4(1), 12-4-87)
Sec. 18-6. - Charges for collection by city.
(a)
A solid waste service charge shall be made to customers for collection services outlined in this chapter. These charges will be made and collected where the service is available, unless service is performed by a contractor under a permit from the director of public works. Each residential unit and each business establishment in the city is required to have solid waste collection services provided by the city or a state-certified hauler. Fees shall be billed monthly along with charges for other city utility services and shall be due and payable as provided by this Code.
(b)
Collection services and water and sewer services shall be discontinued by the city for nonpayment of solid waste charges and fees as set by the city council. Failure to pay fees provided for in this section is a violation of this Code, and the person failing to pay the fees shall be charged for such violation.
(c)
If any person liable for any amount under this chapter sells his property, his successors or assigns shall withhold a sufficient sum from the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt from the city treasurer showing that he has paid the amount, or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(d)
For the purpose of fees due the city for its services in collecting solid waste under the provisions of this chapter, customer classes and the fee for each customer class are to be established by the chief administrative officer from time to time as authorized by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 1987-19, § 4(4), 12-4-87)
Sec. 18-7. - Containers; placement for collection.
(a)
Approval required. All containers and container locations for any type of refuse must be approved by the director of public works of the city.
(b)
Wheeled garbage containers.
(1)
The owner, occupant, tenant or lessee occupying any building, house or structure within the city occupied as a residence or business using an approved wheeled garbage container shall have the container placed at an agreed curb location no later than 7:00 a.m. and removed from the curb by 7:00 p.m. on the days designated by the city's director of public works or his agent. The only exception to this requirement shall be for persons with physical handicaps, the elderly or those otherwise disabled where there is no resident or occupant living on the premises who is physically capable of placing the container at the location established by the city's director of public works or his agent. Failure to comply with this provision shall result in the issuance of a citation by authorized city personnel. The first citation shall result in a written warning. Persons receiving second and subsequent citations shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction in the city court shall be punished according to the provisions of this chapter.
(2)
Wheeled garbage containers furnished by the city shall not be removed from the premises to which they are delivered, and it shall be the duty of the occupant of the premises, if the dwelling is to be vacated by the occupant, to notify the solid waste division at least three days prior to vacancy.
(3)
If the wheeled garbage container furnished by the city is damaged, lost or destroyed through negligence of the person to whom the container was assigned, the person shall reimburse the city for the cost of a replacement container.
(4)
All containers must be kept clean by the customer.
(5)
The mayor and council may, by resolution, authorize the chief administrative officer to make volume purchases of approved refuse containers for use by city refuse customers and to recover the cost of the containers by a monthly fee set by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 1987-19, § 4(3), 12-4-87)
Sec. 18-8. - Transport of waste.
It shall be unlawful for any person to transport his own solid waste, or with a permit to transport the solid waste of another, over the streets of the city when the material transported is inadequately secured, allowing any of the material to fall, leak or be blown from the vehicle. The operator of the offending vehicle shall be processed through the city court.
(Ord. No. 1987-19, § 4(2)(a), 12-4-87)
Sec. 18-9. - Container or compactor services.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a container or compactor service in the city unless authorized to do so by resolution of the mayor and council, which resolution shall set forth all terms and conditions which are in addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 1987-19, § 4(2)(b), 12-4-87)
Sec. 18-10. - Unlawful dumping; sanitary landfills.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or to cause to be dumped any garbage, refuse, litter, junk, appliances, equipment, cans, bottles, paper, lumber, trees, tree limbs, brush, building debris or roofing material, or parts thereof, anywhere in the incorporated area of the city, except as may be permitted by city ordinance.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or cause to be dumped or buried on any private property any of the solid waste or refuse described in subsection (a) of this section without first obtaining the written permission of the owner of such property and without complying with the state Solid Waste Act of 1973.
(c)
The provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to the dumping on private property, with the owner's permission, of sand, dirt, broken bricks, blocks or broken pavement or other suitable material for use as a fill to raise the elevation of the land, provided the property is not maintained in an unsightly condition and provided the owner of the property on which such material is dumped agrees to level such dumped material with appropriate grading equipment, and to cover it with dirt, upon direction of the city council.
(d)
If any of the matter or material dumped in violation of the provisions of subsection (a) of this section can be identified as having last belonged to, been in the possession of, been sent to or received by or been the property of any person prior to its being dumped as prohibited therein, such identification shall be presumed to be prima facie evidence that such owner dumped or caused to be dumped such matter and material in violation of this chapter.
(e)
No sanitary landfill shall be operated within the city without written approval of the city council and a state permit.
(Ord. No. 1987-19, § 4(2)(c)—(g), 12-4-87)
Secs. 18-11—18-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTER CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.

Sec. 18-36. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means all sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals or discarded materials of every kind and description.
Public or private property means:
(1)
The right-of-way of any road or highway;
(2)
Any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof;
(3)
Any park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreation area; and
(4)
Residential or farm properties, timberlands or forests.
(Ord. No. 1985-10, 5-13-85)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-37. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who violates this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
(1)
By a fine of not less than $200.00 nor more than $1,200.00; and
(2)
In the sound discretion of the court, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public street or highway or public right-of-way for a distance not to exceed one mile any litter the person has deposited and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution of sentence; or
(3)
In the sound discretion of the judge of the court, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public beach, public park, private right-of-way, or, with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that the person has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence; and
(4)
The court may publish the names of persons convicted of violating this article of the Kingsland Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 1985-10, 5-13-85; Ord. No. 2004-03, §§ 1, 2, 3-8-2004)
Sec. 18-38. - Deposit of litter prohibited; exceptions.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in the city or any waters in the city, unless:
(1)
The property is designated by the city for the disposal of litter and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed into a litter receptacle or container installed on such property; or
(3)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare.
(Ord. No. 1985-10, 5-13-85)
