ARTICLE II. - ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT

Sec. 113-11. - Effective date and amendments.
(1)
These regulations shall be in full force and effect on (insert date), following the adoption by the city council and shall apply to any land disturbance permit for which an application is received after the effective date of these regulations.
(2)
These regulations may be amended from time-to-time by ordinance of the city council. Such amendments shall be effective as of their date of adoption unless otherwise stated in the adopting ordinance.
(3)
Any subdivision or other development for which a valid and complete application for a land disturbance permit shall have been received prior to the effective date of or the adoption of an amendment to these regulations shall be considered "grandfathered" and, at the developer's option, may proceed to completion and building permits may be issued under the applicable regulations of the city which were in place prior to the effective date of or the adoption of an amendment to these regulations.
(4)
Any subdivision or other development for which a land disturbance permit has been issued prior to the effective date of or the adoption of an amendment to these regulations shall be considered "grandfathered" and, at the developer's option, may proceed to completion and building permits may be issued under the terms of said permit and the applicable regulations of the city which were in place prior to said effective date.
(5)
Any subdivision or other development for which a modified or conditional land disturbance permit may have been issued, including, but not limited to, any permit which may have been issued for clearing and grubbing or grading only purposes, prior to the effective date of or the adoption of an amendment to these regulations shall be brought into conformance with these regulations prior to issuance of any other land disturbance permit or permit revision that would authorize additional work on the project. Administrative modifications in accordance with article III may be granted as necessary and appropriate where full compliance is not feasible or cannot reasonably be achieved because of the stage of development, limitations imposed by the site, or design parameters.
(6)
Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to affect the validity of any building permit lawfully issued prior to the effective date of these regulations.
(7)
No amendment to these regulations shall be construed to affect the validity of any building permit lawfully issued prior to the adoption of said amendment.
(Ord. No. 2009-06-18, (2.1), 6-29-2009)
Sec. 113-12. - Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of these regulations is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or void, the validity of the remaining portions of these regulations shall not be affected thereby, it being the intent of the city council in adopting these regulations that no portion thereof or provision of the regulations contained herein shall become inoperative or fail by reason of the unconstitutionality or invalidity of any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 2009-06-18, (2.2), 6-29-2009)
Sec. 113-13. - Conflicting regulations.
All regulations or parts of regulations of this Code of the City of Johns Creek, Georgia, in conflict with these regulations shall be and the same are hereby repealed in their portions so in conflict. Provided, however, that it is not the intent of these regulations to repeal or affect any Law of the State of Georgia or any Code or Ordinance of the City of Johns Creek, Georgia adopted as a requirement of a state law, in which case the most restrictive requirement shall control.
(Ord. No. 2009-06-18, (2.3), 6-29-2009)
Secs. 113-14—113-20. - Reserved.
