Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Land development code, ch. 26; roads and bridges, ch. 30.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PROPERTY NUMBERING

Sec. 14-31. - Numbers assigned.
Every dwelling unit and places of business shall be assigned a number for the purposes of a designated address to which all dwelling units and places of business on all public and private roads shall be assigned by the property numbering project in accordance with the procedures adopted by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 2-11-92, § I(A))
Sec. 14-32. - Property numbering project.
(a)
The property numbering project, as designates of the board of commissioners, shall assign numbers to all dwelling units and places of business and shall keep a record of all numbers or addresses assigned under this article.
(b)
The property numbering project is a temporary committee by authority of the board of commissioners to initiate and maintain this system until a permanent agency be named by the authority.
(Ord. of 2-11-92, § I(B))
Sec. 14-33. - Assignment of numbers.
(a)
All properties, lots and parcels of land occupied by dwelling units or places of business within the unincorporated limits of the county shall be identified by reference to the uniform numbering system adopted in this article. All existing numbered buildings on lots or parcels not in conformity with this system shall be changed within six months from the adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives so as to conform with this system.
(b)
Every principal business and dwelling unit shall bear the number assigned to it by the property numbering project; and where more than one business or dwelling unit occupies a single structure, each unit shall bear, in addition to the basic number assigned to the structure, the supplementary numerals and/or letters assigned to it.
(c)
Numbers and/or letters indicating the official property number shall be posted at the entrance in such a manner as to provide an unobstructed sighting from the street or road in which the building is located. Numbers and/or letters indicating a designated address shall be posted with numbers and/or letters with a height of not less than two inches and no more than eight inches. Because of the rural characteristics of lots and parcels of land, where dwelling units or places of business exist, the assigned number(s) should be displayed in the following manner:
(1)
On a plate perpendicular to the street or road and parallel to the driveway with numbers on both sides as to be viewed from either direction; or
(2)
The assigned number may be displayed on a shingle-type base perpendicular to the street or road and parallel to the driveway. The post for the assigned number, whether plate or shingle, shall be a minimum of one foot from the ground and no more than a height of three feet.
(d)
So as to maintain uniformity in the system, all numbers must be posted on the street at the entranceway of the designated building. The posted number shall not occupy a place on the right-of-way of the road as to interfere with the scheduled maintenance of the road. It shall be the duty of the property owner or the occupant to affix the number. It shall also be the duty of the property owner or occupant to remove all other numbers that might be mistaken for or confused with the number assigned.
(e)
Upon receipt of notification of a new number, the property owner or occupant, within 60 days, shall affix the assigned number in the aforementioned manner.
(f)
No person shall adopt, assign, display or cite any number other than that assigned as provided in this section for the purpose of property identification or for the purpose of designating location of property.
(Ord. of 2-11-92, § II)
Sec. 14-34. - New structures.
(a)
No certificate of occupation or permit shall be issued to any subdivisional plat until the owner has procured from the board of commissioners or its designee an official number for the proposed development site. Final approval for any building erected on this site will be withheld until numbers have been assigned to every dwelling unit or places of business in accordance with requirements of this article. Numbers will be assigned to each proposed lot or tract upon the erection of a dwelling unit or place of business.
(b)
No building permit shall be issued for any principal building until the owner, builder, contractor or developer has procured from the board of commissioners or its designee the official number of the premises. Final approval for a certificate of occupancy will be withheld until permanent and proper numbers have been displayed in accordance with the requirement of this article.
(Ord. of 2-11-92, § III)
Sec. 14-35. - The system.
(a)
United States Highway 25 (US 25), Georgia Highway 56 (Ga. 56), Georgia Highway 24 (Hwy. 24) are used as primary reference roads. All roads intersecting these roads will be measured from the primary reference roads as the beginning point.
(b)
Georgia Highway 80 (Ga. 80) is not used as a primary road; however all roads intersecting Ga. 80 will be measured from Ga. 80 as the starting point. All secondary paved county roads will be used as the starting point for all intersecting roads.
(c)
Numbers are to be assigned to or reserved for each 20 feet of distance.
(d)
Odd numbers are to be assigned to property on the south and west sides of the street (left sides) and even numbers assigned to property on the east and north sides of the streets (right sides).
(Ord. of 2-11-92, § IV)
Sec. 14-36. - Penalty.
Violators of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 2-11-92, § V)
