ARTICLE 14. - CONSOLIDATION

Sec. 1-135. - Authority of general assembly to consolidate governments.
(a)
Any other provision of this constitution notwithstanding, the general assembly shall have power, by local act or acts, to create, designate, vest powers and duties, set terms and compensation, establish other and different municipal, county or combined governments, governing authorities, political subdivisions, public agencies, courts, offices, officers, boards, bureaus, departments, commissions, and authorities within the limits of Richmond County; to abolish municipal, county or combined governments, governing authorities, political subdivisions, public agencies, courts, offices, officers, boards, bureaus, and authorities now or hereafter existing within the limits of Richmond County; to create, transfer or combine and consolidate any or all of the several powers, authorities, duties, liabilities and functions, which now or hereafter by the Constitution of Georgia or by other provisions of law, may be vested in any municipal or county or combined government, governing authority, political subdivision, public agency, court, office, officer, board, bureau, department, commission or authority now or hereafter existing within the limits of Richmond County; to create two or more taxing districts within the limits of Richmond County so as to permit different rates of taxation where services rendered in such districts vary; to authorize the transfer of government property to any combined or consolidated government; to provide for the preservation of all existing civil service pension and retirement rights, to provide for the assumption of obligations including any bonded indebtedness and any indebtedness under the Georgia Revenue Bond Law outstanding against any existing government, governing authority, political subdivision or public agency within Richmond County by any appropriate successor; and to provide for methods and procedures to effectuate the same.
Provided however, nothing herein contained shall be construed as authorizing the general assembly to:
(1)
Abolish any state or county court or the office of sheriff of Richmond County; or
(2)
Alter the status of the Richmond County Board of Education or any constitutional provision by which any such named agency was authorized or preserved.
(3)
Impair or diminish any civil service pension and retirement rights existing at the time of the ratification of this amendment.
(4)
Impair or diminish any homestead or other exemptions from taxation now or hereafter specified in this constitution.
Provided, however, that none of the foregoing limitations applicable to the designated courts, offices, officers, boards and commissions which are presently serving the entire area shall be construed as prohibiting the general assembly from adding to or increasing the functions of the public offices, officers or agencies herein next above described, nor from merging the functions and jurisdiction of municipal courts and state courts nor from exercising any legislative control with respect thereto which existed prior to the adoption of this paragraph.
Provided, further, that any new combined or consolidated government shall continue to be eligible to have, hold, enjoy and be entitled to any assistance, credits, benefits, monies, grants, grants in aid, funds, loans, aid, appropriations and matching funds to the same extent that any municipality or county of the State of Georgia now or may hereafter enjoy or possess under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia or by other provisions of law or under any present or future state or federal programs.
(b)
The general assembly, in enacting legislation under this authority, shall make the effectiveness thereof contingent upon its approval by a majority of the qualified voters of Richmond County who are affected thereby who vote at public referenda to be held as shall in such legislation be prescribed. The powers herein granted to the general assembly:
(1)
Are remedial and shall be liberally construed to effectuate their purpose.
(2)
May be exercised by it notwithstanding any other provision of this constitution or of law.
(3)
Shall not be exhausted by their initial exercise, but may be exercised from time to time as said general assembly may determine.
(4)
Are cumulative of all other powers not held by the general assembly, and are not in lieu thereof.
(Ga. Laws 1968, p. 1787, ยง 1; Ga. Laws 1974, p. 1814, ยง 1)
