ARTICLE 10. - SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 1-104—1-107. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MERIT SYSTEM

Sec. 1-108. - Definitions.
As used in this act [division], the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
Board. The Richmond County Sheriff's Merit System Board created by this act [division].
(b)
Employee. Any employee, except as provided in subsection (1) of this paragraph, of the sheriff of Richmond County, including but not limited to deputy sheriffs.
(1)
Employee shall not include any member of the sheriff's department with the rank or position of chief deputy or above and shall not include the personal secretary of the sheriff.
(c)
Employer. The sheriff of Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4495, § 1)
Sec. 1-109. - Created.
(a)
There is created and established a merit system of employment and personnel administration for employees of the sheriff's department of Richmond County, which shall be governed by the Richmond County Sheriffs Merit System Board.
(b)
All employees shall be placed under a merit system of employment and personnel administration.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4495, § 2)
Sec. 1-110. - Membership of board.
(a)
The board shall be composed of seven members as follows:
(1)
Three citizens of Richmond County who shall be appointed by the governing authority of Richmond County.
(2)
Three citizens of Richmond County who shall be appointed by the members of the General Assembly who represent Richmond County.
(3)
One citizen of Richmond County appointed by the governing authority of Richmond County from a list of three persons submitted by the members of the General Assembly who represent Richmond County. No person shall be appointed under this paragraph unless such person has at last four years' experience in personnel management or its equivalent.
(b)
Initial members appointed by Richmond County shall be appointed for terms of one year, two years, and three years; and initial members appointed by the members of the General Assembly shall be appointed for terms of one year, two years, and three years. The initial member appointed by the governing authority from the list of three persons shall be appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, members shall be appointed for terms of three years. No appointed member of the board shall hold any public office and no appointed member shall be a public employee. Five members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting business.
(c)
The member appointed by the governing authority from the list of three persons submitted by the members of the General Assembly shall be the initial chairman of the board and shall serve as chairman for a term of two years and until his successor is selected and qualified. Thereafter, the board shall, every two years, select a chairman from among its members who shall serve until his successor is selected and qualified.
(d)
Vacancies on the board shall be filled in the same manner and by the same authority which appointed the member whose position has become vacant. The member so appointed shall serve for the unexpired term.
(e)
Any member of the board who does not attend three consecutive meetings of the board shall be deemed to have vacated his position and the appointing authority shall fill such vacancy for the unexpired term. The board may excuse any absence, in which case no vacancy shall occur.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4495, § 3)
Sec. 1-111. - Duties, functions, responsibilities—Generally; meetings of board.
It shall be the duty, function, and responsibility of the board to represent the interest of the public in the improvement of personnel administration as to those matters involving adverse action taken against a sheriff s department employee by the sheriff or the employee's supervisor. All meetings of the board shall be held in offices provided therefor by the governing authority of Richmond County. The governing authority of said county is authorized to provide necessary clerical assistance to the board and may use the employees of the personnel office of the governing authority of Richmond County to provide such assistance. Said board shall hold regular meetings at least once a month and may hold additional meetings as may be required for the proper discharge of its duties.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4495, § 4; Ga. Laws 1985, p. 4816, § 1)
Sec. 1-112. - Jurisdiction.
All employees, as defined in this act [division], shall be subject to the full provisions of this act [division] and shall come under the jurisdiction of the board.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4495, § 5)
Sec. 1-113. - Specific duties, functions of board.
The duties and functions of the board shall be as follows:
(a)
To hold public hearings regarding proposed merit system policies and procedures and standards of the merit system and thereafter to adopt policies and procedures and standards effectuating the merit system established under this act [division]. Such policies and procedures shall include provisions as to demotion, separation, tenure, service rating, any disciplinary action that may be taken against the employee by the sheriff or any of the employee's supervisors, and such additional policies and procedures as may be deemed to be in the best interest of orderly appeals and hearings on these matters. Such policies and procedures shall prohibit political activity by any employee covered by the merit system or the board. Said policies and procedures when proposed by the board as aforesaid and approved and adopted by the board shall be binding upon all employers and employees.
(b)
To conduct hearings and render decisions on charges preferred against employees of the sheriffs department included in said merit system and to hear appeals from any employee who claims to have been improperly dismissed.
(c)
The board shall keep and maintain an accurate record of minutes, and the governing authority of Richmond County shall provide clerical assistance to maintain such records.
(d)
Said board shall be authorized to make amendments, additions to, and changes in said policies and procedures from time to time; and, when said amendments, changes, or additions are adopted, said amendments shall be binding on all parties affected by said merit system.
(e)
The authority and jurisdiction of the board shall be limited to those areas enumerated in subsection (a) of this section and shall not extend to matters relating to hiring; appointment; promotion; transfer; compensation; workers' compensation; insurance; pension and retirement plans and benefits; sick leave; vacation; leaves of absence; military leaves; regulations of the sheriff pertaining to firearms, uniforms, officers-in-charge, preventive maintenance, safe driving techniques and duty requirements; and holidays for employees.
(f)
The authority and jurisdiction of the board shall not extend to any matter relating to law enforcement duties or other duties which the sheriff is required by law to perform.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4495, § 6; Ga. Laws 1985, p. 4816, §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 1-114. - Dismissal of employees; right of appeal.
No employee who has been brought under the merit system pursuant to this act [division] may be dismissed from employment except for good cause and in accordance with policies and procedures of the board. Any employee who is dismissed shall have the right of appeal pursuant to the terms of the policies and procedures prescribed for appeal by the board. Such appeal shall be heard at the next regular or special meeting of the board after it is filed and must be heard and determined by the board within 45 days of the date said appeal is filed with the board; however, such dismissed employee must file his appeal with the board in writing within 10 days from the date of his dismissal and provided that this provision shall not apply to persons dismissed from employment due to curtailment in funds, reduction in staff, or abolition of the job held by such employee. The decision of the board shall be binding upon the employer as to whether such dismissal was for proper cause.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4495, § 7)
Sec. 1-115. - Review of board actions.
Any final action of the board, including promulgating policies and procedures and changes thereto and rendering decisions on review and appeal of actions by employers and employees under such policies and procedures, shall, within five days of such action, be submitted to the employer for review. If within five days of receipt, the employer does not object in writing to such action, such action shall become of full force and effect and shall be binding on the employer and employee. If the employer files a written objection to such action with the board within five days, such action shall have no force and effect unless the board overrides such written objection by an affirmative vote of five members of the board, in which case such action shall become of full force and effect and shall be binding on the employer and employee.
(Ga. Laws, 1983, p. 4495, § 8)
Sec. 1-116. - Costs, expenses, supplies borne by county.
All costs, expenses, and supplies for the establishment and operation of the merit system and the board shall be borne by the county and paid out of county funds as a cost of administration. The members shall receive $20.00 for each meeting of the board they actually attend not to exceed two meetings during any calendar month.
(Ga. Laws, 1983, p. 4495, § 9; Ga. Laws 1989, Act No. 147, § 1)
Sec. 1-117. - Reduction in rank of chief deputy.
Notwithstanding the fact that individuals with the rank or position of chief deputy or above are not covered by the Richmond County Sheriff's Merit System Board, no sheriff shall reduce any chief deputy below the rank of lieutenant except for good and justifiable cause.
(Ga. Laws 1983, p. 4495, § 10)
