ARTICLE 3. - STATE COURT
DIVISION 1. - JURISDICTION

Sec. 5-61. - Generally.
A state court be, and the same is hereby, created and established in the City of Augusta, with territorial jurisdiction over the whole County of Richmond, concurrent with the jurisdiction of the superior court, to try, and dispose of all civil cases of whatsoever nature above the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, except in cases of divorce, cases respecting titles to land and equity cases; and with criminal jurisdiction to try and dispose of all offenses where the offender is not subject to loss of life, or imprisonment in the penitentiary, committed in the County of Richmond, and to sit as a committing court, to hold preliminary examinations in cases of felonies committed in Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 1; Ga. Laws 1886-87, p. 713)
Sec. 5-62. - Suits against joint defendants.
All suits against joint obligers, joint promissors, copartners or joint trespassers, in which any one or more reside in the County of Richmond, may be brought in this court when the amount is within its jurisdiction, as above defined, under the same rules and regulations governing such cases in the superior courts, mutatis mutandis as to copies, second originals, returns and other matters connected with the suit.
(1880-81 Ga. Laws 574, § 43.)
Sec. 5-63. - Misdemeanors.
The judge of the superior court may send down from the Superior Court of Richmond County all presentments and bills of indictments for offenses below a felony to the said state court for trial; the order or orders so transmitting such cases from the said superior court to the said state court for trial shall be entered upon the minutes of both of said courts.
(1880-81 Ga. Laws 574, § 30.)
Sec. 5-64. - Duty to bind offenders over to state court.
It shall be the duty of all the justices of the peace and notaries public of this state to bind over to said state court all persons charged with offenses committed within the limits of Richmond County, over which said state court has jurisdiction, to answer for said offenses.
(1880-81 Ga. Laws 574, § 31.)
Sec. 5-65. - Claims to realty.
All claims to realty levied by virtue of any execution issued from said state court shall be returnable to the superior court of the county where the land lies, and shall be put in, tried and determined, as other claim cases returned to said superior court.
(1880-81 Ga. Laws 574, § 20.)
DIVISION 2. - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

Sec. 5-66. - Laws and rules governing superior court.
In all matters pertaining to pleading and practice, the laws and rules governing the superior courts, where not inconsistent with the express provisions of this act, shall apply to and govern said state court pleading and practice in every particular, so far as the same may be applicable.
(1880-81 Ga. Laws 574, § 12.)
Sec. 5-67. - Application of general law.
The general law of this state with regard to the commencement of suits in the superior courts, defenses and witnesses and their attendants, interrogatories, sets-off, affidavits of illegality, arbitration, claims to personality, examination of parties to suits, or witnesses by interrogatories, or under subpoenas, or other matters of a judicial nature within the jurisdiction of said state court, shall be applicable to said state court.
(1880-81 Ga. Laws 574, § 16.)
Sec. 5-68. - Court of record.
Said state court shall be a court of record, and shall have a seal, and the minutes, records, orders and other books and files that are required by law and rules to be kept for the superior court of this state, shall be kept in and for said state court, and in the same manner, and all laws applicable to the duties of the clerk and sheriff in said superior courts shall apply to them in said state court, except where they conflict with the provisions of this act. The same method of procedure as govern in the superior courts shall be followed in said state court in every respect, unless inconsistent with the nature of said court.
(1880-81 Ga. Laws 574, § 19.)
Sec. 5-69. - Process and service thereof.
In all civil cases to the declaration, the clerk shall annex a process (unless the same be waived), signed by the clerk, or his deputy, and bearing test in the name of the judge of the said state court, and directed to the sheriff of said state court and his deputies, which shall bear date at least twenty days before the term of the said state court, to which it may be brought and served upon the defendant at least fifteen days before the said term, in the same manner as in the superior court. Appearance and pleading shall be a waiver of all irregularities of process, or the absence of service thereof.
(1880-81 Ga. Laws 574, § 13.)
Sec. 5-70. - Garnishment.
Garnishment proceedings in the state court shall be conformable to the laws of the state on that subject in the superior court; provided, the garnishee shall reside in the County of Richmond, but when the garnishee shall reside in any other county in this state, the same law shall be also applicable to the said state court, with this proviso, that the papers shall be returnable to the superior court of the county of the garnishee's residence, and all subsequent proceedings be had therein.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 14)
Sec. 5-71. - Scire facias.
Scire facias to make parties in any cause in the said state court shall be had as in the superior court, and said scire facias shall run throughout the state, and be served by any sheriff thereof.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 15)
Sec. 5-72. - Jurisdiction of and procedure in cases involving violations of county ordinances.
The state court of the County of Richmond shall have the jurisdiction to hear and determine cases involving violations of the ordinances of Richmond County. Jurisdiction of the court shall extend throughout the entire territorial limits of Richmond County, Georgia, and all of the following provisions shall apply to the prosecutions for violations of any ordinance of Richmond County.
All prosecutions for violations of any ordinance of Richmond County shall be commenced within one year next after commission of the offense, and at no time thereafter, except that such period of limitation shall not run so long as the offender or offense is unknown and shall be suspended during such time as such offender may abscond from said county or absent himself therefrom, or so conceal himself that he cannot be arrested or summoned to appear before said court.
The judge of state court shall have power to hear and determine all cases involving violations of ordinances of Richmond County. Upon conviction of violation of any ordinance of Richmond County, the judge may punish such offender by a fine not to exceed $300.00, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not in excess of 60 days, to work in the work gang on the public streets, or on such public works as the county authorities may employ the work gang, not to exceed 60 days, or by any one or more of such punishments. The sheriff of Richmond County shall receive, confine, feed and care for prisoners sentenced by said state court for violations of any ordinance of Richmond County to imprisonment in the county jail in the same manner as persons charged with an indictable offense under the general laws of this state and is subject to the same penalties for his refusal to receive and take charge of such persons, except the prisoners received under sentence from said state court may be confined separately and apart from other classes of inmates of said jail as the sheriff may, in his discretion, provide and as general laws may require.
Said state court shall have the power and authority to impose fines on persons convicted of violation of any ordinance of Richmond County, with the alternate of imposing other punishment allowed by law in case said fines are not paid and to commit prisoners to the Richmond County jail or to the public works gang that may be prescribed and maintained by Richmond County.
The judge of said state court shall have the authority to reduce any sentence or fine imposed by him prior to the payment of said fine and execution of said sentence, but shall not have the right to grant a new trial. Review of any final order or judgment of said state court shall be by certiorari to the Superior Court of Richmond County in the same manner prescribed by law for certiorari from justice courts and a supersedeas may be obtained by compliance with the procedures set forth in section 5-4-20 of the Georgia Code Annotated and the giving of bond provided therein, which bond shall be made to Richmond County.
In each case of a conviction in said state court, the cost assessable shall be $2.50 per case, and shall go into the general fund of the county for general accounting purposes.
Any person charged with violation of an ordinance of Richmond County shall be informed by citation served on him, shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his behalf, shall have a speedy trial before the judge of said state court, shall be confronted with the witnesses against him, and have the privilege of cross-examination, as in the superior courts within the state; and shall have the privilege of defending himself by counsel or by himself, or both, as to him which shall seem proper. No one shall be fined or punished without full opportunity of being heard in his own defense.
Said state court shall have the authority to compel, the attendance before any of its sessions of witnesses within the limits of Richmond County by service upon such witnesses of a subpoena from said court directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial, and the parties to the case, and which shall be served upon such witness either personally or by leaving a copy at his place of residence by a deputy sheriff.
The name of the clerk of said state court required on subpoenas and other papers may be printed or stamped on such papers, which shall be in compliance with the law and shall have the same force and effect as if written thereon by the clerk.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 3867, § 1(17-A).)
Sec. 5-73. - Attachments.
All acts and parts of acts already or hereafter passed upon the subject of attachment or garnishment, or legislating as to any matter whatever in the superior courts of this state, shall apply to said state court as if named with the superior courts in said acts, so far as the nature of said state court will admit. The judge of said state court, or any justice of the peace or notary public, or other officer authorized by law to do so, may issue attachments and garnishments returnable to the said state court, under the same laws governing attachments or garnishments returnable to the superior courts of this state.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 18.)
Sec. 5-74. - Accusation and proceedings in criminal causes.
Defendants in criminal causes where the prosecution originates in said state court, or where such defendants are bound over to said state court by any justice of the peace or notary public, shall be tried on written accusations, setting forth plainly the offense charged, founded on affidavit containing the name of the accuser, and signed by the solicitor of said court. The proceedings, after accusation, shall conform to the rules governing in the superior court, except there shall be no jury trial, unless demanded, as hereinbefore provided, by the accused. In all cases tried upon accusations, the offense shall be therein charged with the same particularity, both as to matter of form and substance, as is required by the laws and rules of criminal pleading to be observed in bills of indictment in the superior courts.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 32.)
Sec. 5-75. - Writ of error.
A writ of error shall lie direct from the said state court to the supreme court of this state, upon a bill of exceptions filed under the same rules and regulations as govern and control the issue of writs of error and filing of bills of exceptions in the superior courts of this state.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 33.)
Sec. 5-76. - Enforcement of judgments.
All laws regulating the enforcement of the judgments of the superior court, whether civil or criminal, shall apply to said state court, and execution shall issue and be levied, and sales be had, under the same rules and laws regulating the same in the superior court.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 34.)
Sec. 5-77. - Waivers.
In all cases in said state court the same powers and rights of parties as to waivers in pleading or procedure, or other matters pertaining to the same, shall be allowed and upheld, as are allowed and upheld by the laws and rules governing parties in the superior courts.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 39.)
Sec. 5-78. - New trial.
The judge of said state court shall have power to grant a new trial in any case, civil or criminal, in his court, upon the same terms and conditions, and under the same laws and regulations in every respect governing the granting of new trials in the superior courts. All rules of pleadings, practice and procedure governing motions, rules nisi, and other proceedings in new trials in the superior court, shall apply to and govern the same in said state court.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 44.)
Sec. 5-79. - Criminal cases—Generally.
The judge of said state court shall have power to try all criminal cases within the jurisdiction of said state court, and dispose of the same without a jury, in all cases in which the defendant shall not demand a jury to try his case; when such demand for a jury is made by any defendant in a criminal case before the introduction of evidence therein, said case shall be placed upon the docket of said state court for trial at the regular term of said court as other cases in which juries are demanded.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 27.)
Sec. 5-80. - Same—Indictment.
In all criminal cases within the jurisdiction of the said state court, the defendant shall not have the right to demand an indictment by the grand jury of the County of Richmond.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 46; Ga. Laws 1893, p. 386.)
Sec. 5-81. - Civil cases tried without jury.
The judge of said state court shall have power and authority to hear and determine all civil cases over which said court has jurisdiction, and to give judgment, and award execution thereon without the intervention of a jury; but any party in any case, at any time before the call of said case for trial, shall be entitled to demand and have at the trial jury to try said case.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 26; Ga. Laws 1886-87, p. 713.)
Sec. 5-82. - Terms of court—Generally; default judgment.
(a)
The State Court of Richmond County shall have six terms each year.
(b)
Beginning with January, 1896, the regular terms of said court shall be held on the first Monday in January, March, May, July, September and November of each year, and shall continue from day to day, and from time to time, as the judge in his discretion may determine, until the business of said court is disposed of.
(c)
The docket of cases brought to any of said terms of said court shall be called on the third Saturday of each of the months during which said terms begin, or at such other time after the third Saturday as the judge may by rule establish.
(d)
All cases in which there has been personal service, if the defendant is a person, or if a corporation, personal service on the officer thereof, and in which no demurrer, plea or other defense has been filed, on or before the call of the said docket, shall be considered in default, and in all such undefended cases the said court shall enter up judgment for the plaintiff against the defendant.
(e)
The judge of said state court shall hold his court, in his discretion, at the same place, at any other time for the transaction of criminal business, which does not require a jury, as speedily as possible, consistent with the interest of the state and the accused, and may also, if necessary, hold adjourned terms of the regular quarterly terms, for which adjourned terms he may either draw new juries or require the same to serve as, in his discretion, may seem best.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 21; Ga. Laws 1895, p. 393.)
Sec. 5-83. - Trial term of civil cases.
In all civil cases in said state court the term next after the term to which the process is made returnable shall be the regular trial term of said cases; provided, always that judgments upon suits for rent may be rendered at the first term.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 22.)
Sec. 5-84. - Disposition of fines.
All moneys arising from jury fines, fines imposed for violation of penal laws, and other fines, and collected from forfeited recognizances in said state court, shall be subject to the payment of the fees of the solicitor, clerk, sheriff and other officers of said state court in criminal cases; provided, that in every case of presentment or bill of indictment, sent down from the superior court, in which costs, or fine and costs, are collected out of the defendant in the state court, that the costs of the district attorney of the Augusta Judicial Circuit, and the clerk and sheriff of the superior court, in such cases, shall first be paid out of said costs in the case, but for their insolvent costs, the officers of the said state court above referred to shall have a lien upon the fines and forfeitures above mentioned, raised in the state court, superior to the lien of the officers of superior court for their insolvent costs.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 36.)
Sec. 5-85. - Insolvent costs.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of the said state court to send up to the superior court at each term thereof, a statement of the amount of insolvent costs due to the officers of the superior court, and uncollected upon cases transmitted from the superior court to said state court for trial, which have been finally disposed of in said state court, which amount shall be first paid from any balance of fines and forfeitures in said state court that may at any time remain after full payment of the insolvent costs of the officers of the said state court, as hereinbefore provided, and should any balance remain of such fines and forfeitures after full payment, in the order prescribed, of all insolvent costs due both the officers of the state court and the officers of the superior court, such balance shall be paid into the treasury of the County of Richmond; provided, that nothing herein contained, as to the payment of such insolvent costs due the officers of the superior court, shall prohibit the payment of the same from any fines and forfeitures in the superior court, and whenever the costs in any case transmitted from the superior court to said state court are paid in the latter court, it shall be the duty of the clerk thereof to retain and pay over to the officers of the superior court costs in that case, as provided above.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 37.)
Sec. 5-86. - Attachment against clerk.
In any case where it may be necessary to attach the clerk of said state court, it shall be lawful for the judge of said court to call in the services of the clerk of the City Council of Augusta, and the chief of police of said City of Augusta shall be competent to enforce any attachment by said judge against the sheriff of said state court, and the clerk and sheriff of said state court may sue and be sued in said court, but when the clerk may be party defendant in any action, the process shall be signed by the judge, and said clerk shall be required to copy the petition and annex the process thereto, and the said clerk shall also be required to make out final process in any case in which he may be interested as in other cases, which shall be signed by the judge and executed as in other cases; and in all cases before said court in which the sheriff thereof shall be plaintiff or defendant, the process shall be directed to the chief of police and all and singular the policemen of the City of Augusta, and may be served by any one of them, and subsequent proceedings thereon shall be as in other cases, the said chief or other policemen taking the place of the sheriff.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 38.)
Sec. 5-87. - Judgment liens and their execution.
All judgments obtained in said state court, shall be a lien upon all the property of the defendants throughout the state; and all executions shall bear test in the name of the judge of said state court, be issued and signed by the clerk of said state court, and be directed to the sheriff or his deputy of said state court, and all and singular the sheriffs or their deputies of this state, and may be levied on any of the property of the defendants to be found in this state.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 23.)
Sec. 5-88. - Production of books, papers, etc.
The said state court is empowered to compel the production of books, papers and writings in the same manner and under the same rules and regulations, as are provided by law for the production, of the same in the superior court.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 25.)
DIVISION 3. - OFFICERS
Subdivision 1. - In General

Sec. 5-89. - Judge and solicitor—Terms.
The terms of office of said judge and solicitor elected at said election to be held on the first Wednesday in October, 1908, shall begin September 24, 1909, and extend to January 1, 1913, or until their successors are elected and qualified. The terms of judge and solicitor elected on the first Wednesday in October, 1912, shall commence January 1, 1913, and be for four years.
(Ga. Laws 1907, p. 228, § 2)
Sec. 5-90. - Same—Filing vacancy in office.
In the event of a vacancy in the office of judge or solicitor of said court, from death, resignation, or other cause, the governor shall appoint a judge or solicitor, as the case may be, to hold office until the next general election for county officers, when an election shall be held for the unexpired term. The judge or solicitor elected at said general election shall be commissioned by the governor, and shall hold office for the remainder of said term, or until his successor is elected and qualified.
(Ga. Laws 1907, p. 228, § 3)
Sec. 5-91. - Same—Qualifications.
No person shall be judge of the State Court of Richmond County unless at the time of his election he shall have attained the age of 30 years, and shall have been a citizen of the county for three years, and shall have practiced law seven years; and no person shall be hereafter elected or appointed solicitor of the State Court of Richmond County unless at the time of his election he shall have attained 25 years of age, shall have been a citizen of the county for three years, and shall have practiced law three years next preceding his election.
(Ga. Laws 1907, p. 228, § 4)
Sec. 5-92. - Reserved.
Sec. 5-93. - Clerk and sheriff.
The clerk and sheriff and their deputies of the Superior Court of Richmond County shall be ex officio clerk, sheriff and deputies of said state court, and for services rendered in said state court shall be entitled to the same fees as are allowed them by law in the superior court, and shall discharge the same duties and be subject to the same obligations and penalties, and for services rendered where no compensation is provided by law they shall receive such compensation as the judge of said court shall in his discretion grant; but all bills of insolvent costs that may become due said clerk, sheriff and deputies for services rendered in said state court shall be paid in the same manner as is provided in the fourth section of this act for the payment of the insolvent costs of the solicitor of said state court; that is to say that all bills of insolvent costs that may become due said clerk, sheriff and deputies for services rendered in said state court, when examined and approved by the judge of said state court, shall, upon presentation, be paid by the treasurer of the county out of any funds which may be in the treasury.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 5; Ga. Laws 1882-83, p. 527)
Subdivision 2. - Judges

Sec. 5-94. - Oath.
Before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, the judge of the said state court shall take and subscribe the oath of all civil officers, and in addition thereto, the following, viz:
"I solemnly swear that I will administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal right to the poor and the rich; and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties which may be required of me as judge of the State court of the County of Richmond, of this state, according to the laws and constitution of this state, and the Constitution of the United States, so help me God."
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 3)
Sec. 5-95. - Powers—Generally.
The judge of said state court shall have power to cause testimony to be taken and used de bene esse, and for the purpose of perpetrating testimony within his jurisdiction, in all cases according to the general laws of the state; and the judge and all other officers of the said state court shall have power, respectively, to administer all oaths pertaining to their offices as the judge and other officers of the superior court may in like cases do; and said judge shall also have power to attest deeds and other papers and administer affidavits, in all cases, anywhere in the state, in which by existing laws such papers may be attested and affidavits administered by justices of the peace of this state, and the judge of said state court shall have all the powers and authority, throughout his jurisdiction, of judges of the superior courts, except when by law exclusive power and authority are vested in judges of the superior courts, and all laws relating to and governing judges of the superior courts shall apply to the judge of said state court, so far as the same may be applicable, except as herein provided.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 35)
Sec. 5-96. - Same—Enforce orders, preserve order, punish contempt, etc.
The judge of said state court shall have the same power to enforce his orders, to preserve order, punish for contempt, and to enforce all his judgments, as is vested by law in the judges of the superior courts of this state.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 35)
Sec. 5-97. - Practice of law prohibited.
The judge of the State Court of Richmond County shall not engage in the private practice of law.
(Ga. Laws 1943, p. 806; Ga. Laws 1976, p. 3155, § 1; Ga. Laws 1981, p. 3544, § 1)
Sec. 5-98. - Absence.
In case of the absence of said state judge from any cause at any term of said court, it shall be the duty of the clerk or the sheriff of said court to adjourn the court to such day as the judge may in writing direct.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 24)
Sec. 5-99. - Attorney to preside when judge disqualified.
In any case in said state court in which said state judge may be from any cause disqualified the parties may agree, either themselves or by counsel, upon some attorney to preside in that case in his place, and said state judge shall have an order to that effect placed upon the minutes of said court.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 29)
Sec. 5-100. - Judges of superior court and state court may preside in either court.
The judge of the superior court and the judge of said state court may preside in the court of each other in cases where the judge of either court is disqualified to preside from any cause.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 28)
Sec. 5-101. - Creation of second division.
There is created a second division of the State Court of Richmond County. The second division of the state court shall be governed by the provisions of general law contained in Chapter 7 of Title 15 of the O.C.G.A., relating to state courts, and by the additional provisions of this part.
(Ga. Laws 1997, p. 4379)
Sec. 5-102. - Judge; powers and duties; appointment.
(a)
In addition to all other judges of the state court, there shall be one judge of the second division of the State Court of Richmond County. The qualifications and election of the judge shall be as provided by general law.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, said judge shall have and may exercise all powers, duties, jurisdictions, privileges, and immunities of the present judge of the State Court of Richmond County under the provision of this Act and the general law applicable to said present judge.
(b)
The initial judge shall be appointed by the Governor for an initial term beginning on July 1, 1997, and expiring on December 31, 1998, and upon the election and qualification of a successor.
(Ga. Laws 1997, p. 4380-4381)
Sec. 5-103. - Compensations/Salary.
(a)
The judge shall receive the same compensation as the present judge of the State Court of Richmond County payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Augusta-Richmond County, Georgia. The judge is designated as a full-time judge and may not engage in the private practice of law. (Ga. Laws 1997, p. 4380-4381)
(b)
Any salary supplement heretofore enacted by Augusta-Richmond County, Georgia, shall also be applicable to the judge.
Note— As of January 1, 2006, the salaries of the Judges of the State Court of Richmond County were increased as set forth below:
State Court Associate Judge .....127,609.30
(Ga. Laws 1997, p. 4380-4381; Ord. of 6-7-2006)
Sec. 5-104. - Creation of a Third Division.
There is created a third division of the State Court of Richmond County. The third division of the state court shall be governed by the provisions of general law contained in Chapter 7 of Title 15 of the O.C.G.A., relating to state courts, and by the additional provisions of this part.
State Law reference— O.C.G.A. Title 15-7 et seq.
(Section 3.1 Act 65(S.B. 107) approved 5-17-07)
(Ga. Laws 2007, p. 3529, § 5(3-1))
Sec. 5-105. - Third Division Judge; powers and duties; appointment.
(a)
(1)
In addition to all other judges of the state court, there shall be one judge of the third division. The qualifications and election of the judge shall be as provided by general law.
(2)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, said judge shall have and may exercise all powers, duties, jurisdictions, privileges, and immunities of the present judges of the State Court of Richmond County under the provision of this Act and the general law applicable to said present judges.
(b)
The initial judge shall be appointed by the Governor for an initial term beginning on July 1, 2007, and expiring on December 31, 2008, and upon the election and qualification of a successor.
(Ga. Laws 2007, p. 3529, § 5(3-2))
Sec. 5-106. - Third Division Judge; Compensation/Salary.
(a)
The judge shall receive the same compensation as the present judges of the State Court of Richmond County payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Augusta-Richmond County, Georgia. The judge is designated as a full-time judge and may not engage in the private practice of law.
(b)
Any salary supplement heretofore enacted by Augusta-Richmond County, Georgia, shall be applicable to the judge.
(Ga. Law 1997, p. 4379; Section 3-3 Act 65 (S.B. 107) approved 5-17-07)
(Ga. Laws 2007, p. 3529, § 5(3-3))
Sec. 5-107. - Chief judge.
The judge of the State Court of Richmond County who has served the longest period of time in office as judge of said court shall be the chief judge of the State Court of Richmond County.
Note— As of January 1, 2006, the salaries of the Judges of the State Court of Richmond County were increased as set forth below:
State Court Chief Judge .....131,209.26
(Ord. of 6-7-2006)
Sec. 5-108. - Compensation.
(a)
Reserved.
(b)
Reserved.
(c)
Reserved.
(d)
The chief judge shall receive additional compensation for performing the handling of the administration and operation of the State Court of Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1997, p. 4379)
Sec. 5-109. - Same—Powers and duties.
Such chief judge shall be responsible further for the administration and the expeditious disposition of the business of the state court, both civil and criminal, and shall have power to make such rules as the chief judge shall deem necessary or proper for such purpose but which are not in conflict with the general laws of this state. Such rules, when approved by the chief judge and filed in the office of the clerk of the State Court of Richmond County, shall be binding upon the other judge or judges of said court. The chief judge shall be vested with the power to make all appointments whenever the law provides for the state court judge to make appointments. Such chief judge may by published rule, or from time to time by order, allocate the jurisdiction and powers of the state court of said county and the duties of he [the] judges thereof; may assign to the other judge or judges of said court such business of said court as the chief judge shall deem appropriate; may require reports from the clerk of the court and from any judge of said court relative to business of the court; and generally shall supervise and direct the dispositions of all business, both civil and criminal, of said court.
(Ga. Laws 1997, p. 4379)
Sec. 5-110. - Oath.
The judge shall take an oath to faithfully administer and discharge the duties of his or her office in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, which oath may be administered by any officer authorized under the laws of this state to administer oaths.
(Ga. Laws 1997, p. 4379)
Subdivision 3. - Solicitor

Sec. 5-111. - Duties; fees; assistant solicitor.
It shall be the duty of the solicitor to represent the State of Georgia in all cases in said state court in which the state shall be a party, and in the supreme court in such cases upon writs of error from said state court. All bills for insolvent costs that may become due to said solicitor, when examined and approved by the judge of the said court, shall, upon presentation, be paid by the treasurer of the county out of any funds which may be in the treasury. The fees of the solicitor, for services rendered in the supreme court, shall be paid by the state, on the warrant of the governor, in all cases where the said solicitor shall present the certificate of the clerk of the supreme court as to services, and of the clerk of the said state court to the effect that the defendant was acquitted or was unable to pay the costs.
The solicitor of the State Court of Richmond is authorized to appoint, subject to the approval of the judge of the state court, an assistant solicitor. The assistant solicitor shall serve at the pleasure of the judge and solicitor of the state court. Any assistant solicitor shall have been a resident of Richmond County for a period of not less than one (1) year prior to his appointment, shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of age at the time of appointment, and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia and qualified to practice law. The assistant solicitor shall, before assuming office, take the same oath of office as that prescribed for the solicitor. The assistant solicitor shall have such authority as may be delegated to him by the solicitor and, when acting on behalf of or for the solicitor, shall have all the power and authority vested in the Solicitor of the State Court of Richmond County. The salary of the assistant solicitor shall be established by the governing authority of Richmond County and shall be paid from county funds.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 4; Ga. Laws 1981, p. 3544, § 2)
Sec. 5-112. - Limitations on criminal law practice.
The solicitor of the State Court of Richmond County shall not practice criminal law in any of the courts of this state, except in the discharge of the duties of the office of solicitor of said court, or prosecuting and/or assisting in the prosecution of cases in other courts.
(Ga. Laws 1931, p. 369)
Sec. 5-113. - Generally.
(a)
The solicitor-general of the state court shall be a full-time solicitor-general as provided in Code Section 15-18-63 of the O.C.G.A. or any statute which succeeds such Code section.
(b)
The solicitor-general shall not engage in the private practice of law.
(c)
The solicitor-general shall receive a salary of $64,000.00 per annum payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Augusta-Richmond County. Any salary supplement heretofore enacted by Augusta-Richmond County shall continue to be applicable to the solicitor-general, and Augusta-Richmond County may enact such supplements from time to time. (Effective January 1, 1998, the salary shall be $73,500.00, and effective January 1, 2000, the salary shall be $83,000.00 and shall receive further increases as set forth in Augusta-Richmond County Code, § 1-15.)
(d)
The solicitor-general of the State Court of Richmond County holding office on the effective date of this Act shall continue in office until the expiration of the term of office to which such solicitor-general was elected.
Sec. 5-114—5-116. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - JURY

Sec. 5-117. - Application of general law to juries.
All laws in reference to the qualification, relations, drawing, summoning and empaneling jurors, and of challenging, now of force in this state, or hereafter enacted by the general assembly regulating the same in the superior courts, shall apply to and be observed in said state court, except where said general laws are inconsistent with the provisions of this act, or any amendments thereof hereafter made.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 9)
Sec. 5-118. - List.
All persons liable to serve as grand and petit jurors in the superior court of said county, shall be liable to serve as petit jurors of said state court, and it shall be the duty of the clerk of the said state court to copy into a book to be provided at the public expense, the lists of all names of persons liable to serve as jurors, grand and petit, in the said superior court, to be taken from the lists of said superior court, under the supervision of the judge of said state court, and to make a new list as often as said superior court jury lists are revised, to conform to said revision, which said book containing the list of persons so liable to serve as jurors in said state court, as above directed, shall be alphabetically arranged, and shall be kept in the office of the clerk of said state court. The said clerk shall also make out tickets equal in number to the number of names on said lists, and write upon each the name of one of said persons, and deposit the same in a box to be provided at the public expense, and numbered one, until there shall be a ticket in said box bearing the name of each person on said list.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 6)
Sec. 5-119. - Drawing jury.
During the session of said state court at each term, in open court, the judge shall draw from said box number one, 24 names of persons to serve as jurors at the next term thereafter of the said state court, and shall cause the clerk to record the names so drawn, and then deposit the tickets in another box, to be provided at the public expense, and numbered two. These boxes shall be so constructed as to be kept under one seal and lock, and shall be kept sealed and shall not be opened by any person except the judge of the said state court, or the judge of the superior court when presiding in his place, for the purpose of drawing jurors in open court, except in cases when, from failure to draw a jury in term time, or from other cause, it may be necessary to draw a jury for said state court in vacation. If from any cause it should become necessary to draw a jury for said state court in vacation, either the judge of said state court or a superior court judge may at any time, 20 days before the next term of said state court, in the presence of the clerk and sheriff of said state court, proceed to draw juries in the manner above prescribed. The clerk shall keep said jury boxes and the sheriff shall keep the key, and it shall be duty of the clerk of said state court, to prepare said jury lists in boxes as hereinbefore provided, and after said boxes are prepared the jury to serve at the first quarterly term of said court shall be drawn, as above provided for drawing juries in vacation.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 7)
Sec. 5-120. - Jurors—Summoning.
The clerk shall make out a precept, containing the names of the persons drawn, as above directed, and a summons for each juror and deliver the same to the sheriff, 15 days before the next term of the said state court, whose duty it shall be to serve each of said persons by handing him a summons personally, or by leaving the same at his most notorious place of abode, at least 10 days before the term of the said state court at which he is required to attend.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 8)
Sec. 5-121. - Same—Challenges.
In criminal cases, the defendant shall be entitled to seven peremptory challenges, and the state to five, and in civil cases the plaintiff and defendant shall be each entitled to six, and all laws and rules, both civil and criminal, regulating the selection of juries in the superior courts, shall apply to said state court, except where they are inconsistent with the provisions of this act, and any amendments which may hereafter be made.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 11)
Sec. 5-122. - Same—Per diem.
All jurors in said state court, whether belonging to the regular panel or talesman, shall receive $1.00 per day for their services for every day of actual attendance, and shall be paid in the same manner, and under the same regulations, as jurors in the superior court. Separate juries shall be drawn for each week of each term of said court and jurors shall serve only for one week in each term unless when a juror is serving on the trial of a case lasting over from one week till another. Jurors shall be drawn, served, summoned, impaneled, and shall serve only for the same length of time in each year, as is now or may hereafter be allowed in the superior court.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 45; Ga. Laws 1886-87, p. 713)
Sec. 5-123. - Two juries to be drawn from panel.
From said panel of 24 jurors drawn and summoned as above directed, the judge of said state court, shall cause to be made up two juries, of 12 jurors each, which shall be known and distinguished as juries members one and two, and all cases and issues to be tried by jury, at that term in said state court, civil or criminal, shall be tried by one of these, or by a jury stricken from both, as hereinafter provided. In case from any cause said panel should be reduced below 24, the judge presiding in said state court shall have power to fill it by causing talesman to be summoned instanter.
(Ga. Laws 1880-81, p. 574, § 10)
DIVISION 5. - RESERVED

Sec. 5-124—5-132. - Reserved.
