CODE OF AUGUSTA, GEORGIA also known as AUGUSTA-RICHMOND COUNTY GEORGIA[1]
VOLUME I
Published by Order of the Augusta-Richmond County Commission
First Reading: July 10, 2007
Second Reading: August 7, 2007
Supplement No. 1—October 10, 2007
Supplement No. 2—October 30, 2008
Supplement No. 3—March 17, 2010
Supplement No. 4—June 15, 2012
Republished and updated in 2022 through Ord. No. 7807 , adopted December 7, 2021
MAYORS SERVED FROM 1996 TO PRESENT
Larry Sconyers
Bob Young
Willie Mays-Interim
Deke Copenhaver
COMMISSIONERS SERVED FROM 1996 TO PRESENT
Betty Beard
Marion F. Williams
Joe Bowles
Bernard Harper
Calvin Holland, Sr.
Andy Cheek
Jerry Brigham
Jimmy Smith
J.R. Hatney
Don Grantham
Steve Shepard
Henry Brigham
Ulmer Bridges
Bill Kuhlke
Freddie Handy
Jimmy Smith
Richard Colclough
Rob Zetterberg
Lee Beard
Calvin Stevenson Interim
Keith Brown Interim
Roy Reardon Interim
Barbara Sims
Moses Todd
Willie Mays
ADMINISTRATORS SERVED FROM 1996 TO PRESENT
Charles Dillard Interim
Lynda Beasley Interim
Randy Oliver
George Kolb
Fred Russell
CLERK
Mrs. Lena Bonner
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Laws, 1997, Page 4024, changed the name of the Augusta-Richmond County to "Augusta, Georgia." The entity is variously referred to as Augusta, Georgia; Augusta-Richmond County, Georgia and the City of Augusta. The appropriate name is Augusta, Georgia.

AUGUSTA OFFICIALS
____________
Mayor
Deke Copenhaver
____________
Commissioners
Betty Beard, Mayor Pro Tem
Marion F. Williams, District 2
Joe Bowles, District 3
Bernard Harper, District 4
Calvin Holland, Sr., District 5
Andy Cheek, District 6
Jerry Brigham, District 7
Jimmy Smith, District 8
J.R. Hatney, District 9
Don Grantham, District 10
____________
County Administrator
Fred Russell
____________
County Attorney
Stephen E. Shepard
____________
Clerk of Commission
Lena Bonner
PREFACE
This volume contains the Charter and Code of Ordinances of the Code of Augusta-Richmond County Georgia. This Code is a republication of all ordinances of a general and permanent nature that were deemed advisable to be included. Only ordinances of a general and permanent nature prescribed for and affecting the public as a whole are included herein. Special ordinances dealing with only a portion of the inhabitants of the City, rather than all of them, relating to special purposes, such as ordinances levying special assessments, providing for bond issues, paving, vacating and opening specified streets, etc., are not included.
ORGANIZATION OF CODE PROVISIONS
As will be noted, the chapters have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order and the various sections within each chapter have been appropriately catchlined to facilitate usage. Attention is also directed to the appropriate footnotes which tie related sections of the Code together and refer to relevant provisions of general state law.
The numbering system used in this Code is such that each section number consists of three component parts separated by a dash, the figure before the dash referring to the title number and the figure after the dash referring to the chapter number and the next figure referring to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the first section of Title 1 is numbered 1-1-1. Under this system, each chapter is identified with its title. New sections can be inserted in their proper places simply by using the decimal system for amendments. Thus, if new material consisting of three sections that would logically come between Sections 4-4-4 and 4-4-5 is to be added, the new sections would be numbered 4-4-4.1, 4-4-4.2, 4-4-4.3. Sections have been reserved at the end of articles and divisions to provide for future expansion.
New chapters may be included by the addition of a fractional number after the chapter number. As an example, if the new material is to be included between Chapters 12 and 13, it will be designated as Chapter 12½. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject and in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject, the next successive number being assigned to the article or division.
The source of each addition is included in the history note in parentheses at the end thereof.
LOOSELEAF SUPPLEMENT SERVICE
A special feature of this Code to which the attention of the user is directed is the looseleaf form of binding and supplemental servicing for the Code. With this looseleaf system the Code will be kept up to date periodically. Upon the final passage of amendatory ordinances, they will be properly edited and the page or pages affected will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to the holders of the Code with instructions for inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages. Each such subsequent amendment, when incorporated into this Code, will be cited as a part thereof.
The successful maintenance of this Code up to date will depend largely upon the holder of the volume. As revised sheets are received it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them.
INDEX
The index to the Code has been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of the headings being couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by city officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the index itself which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which he is interested.
In case of the amendment of any section of such Code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in Section 1-14 of such Code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty, is provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of John Dombroski, Vice-President of Production, and Janet Cramer, Electronic Publishing, of Municode, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Mr. Stephen E. Shepard, County Attorney and Ms. Lena Bonner, Clerk of Commission, and the following persons for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this republication: James B. Wall, former County Attorney; Sparticus Heyward and Vanessa Flournoy, Staff Attorneys; Amy Hudson, Esquire; John P. Manton, Esquire; and Grady Blanchard, Esquire; Lauren Blakley; Misty Dawn Human, and Betty Carrera, Augusta Law Department. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the Augusta-Richmond County, Georgia readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
EXPAND
MUNICODE
Tallahassee, Florida
  ORDINANCE NO. 6992
AN ORDINANCE TO ADOPT A REVISED CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR AUGUSTA, GEORGIA; TO DESIGNATE SAID REVISED CODE AS THE CODE OF AUGUSTA, GEORGIA, REVISED, 2007, ALSO KNOWN AS "AUGUSTA CODE 2007".
WHEREAS, the Augusta Code was last codified in 1997 by an Ordinance adopted September 3, 1997 by the Augusta-Richmond County Commission; and
WHEREAS, the Augusta Code of Ordinances proposed for adoption specifically amends, restates and supersedes said 1997 Code except as provided in Section 1-1-10 in said Code of 1997 and as such exceptions are carried forward in the revised Code as Section 1-1-10 in the 2007 Code. All changes in ordinances have been incorporated through June, 2007.
NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Augusta-Richmond County Commission that the Code of Ordinances of Augusta, Georgia, 2007 Revision, is hereby officially adopted as the Code of Augusta, Georgia (2007) and it can be cited as such.
FURTHER ORDAINED that the 2007 Code Revision is dedicated to those individuals who have served in elective offices and senior administrative positions in the Consolidated Government, since its adoption, in appreciation for their service to the community.
Duly adopted this 7 day of August , 2007.
AUGUSTA-RICHMOND COUNTY COMMISSION
EXPAND
/s/ Deke Copenhaver
      Mayor
    Attest:
EXPAND
/s/ Lena Bonner
      Clerk of Commission
    Seal
First Reading: July 10, 2007
Second Reading: August 7, 2007
