ARTICLE 16. - ABANDONED VEHICLES

Sec. 3-5-134. - Parking vehicles with invalid license plates.
Any automobile, vehicle or trailer of any kind or type, without a valid license plate attached thereto, shall not be parked or stand on any residentially zoned property or other zoned property unless it shall be in a completely enclosed building or on property properly zoned according to the county comprehensive zoning ordinance.
Sec. 3-5-135. - Inoperative or junk vehicle—Parking prohibition; exceptions.
No automobile, vehicle or trailer of any kind or type, which shall be inoperative or in a junk condition, shall be parked or stand on any residentially zoned property or other zoned property unless:
(a)
It shall be in an enclosed building;
(b)
It shall be on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful manner, when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise; or,
(c)
It shall be on property occupied and used for repair, reconditioned or remodeling of vehicles in conformance with zoning ordinances of Augusta-Richmond County.
Sec. 3-5-136. - Same—Defined.
An inoperative or junk condition shall include, but shall not be limited to, any automobile, vehicle, trailer of any kind or type, or contrivance, or a part thereof, the condition of which is one or more of the following:
(a)
Wrecked;
(b)
Dismantled;
(c)
Partially dismantled;
(d)
Inoperative;
(e)
Abandoned;
(f)
Discarded;
(g)
Scrapped;
(h)
Does not have a valid license plate attached thereto.
Sec. 3-5-137. - Nuisances not authorized.
Nothing in this Article shall authorize the maintenance of a public or private nuisance as defined under other provisions of law.
Sec. 3-5-138. - Supplemental nature of article.
This Article shall not be the exclusive regulation of discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped, ruined or junk motor vehicles, or contrivances, within Augusta-Richmond County, but shall be supplemental in addition to other regulations and ordinances of Augusta-Richmond County and statutes or provisions of law heretofore and hereinafter enacted by the state or other legal entity or agency having jurisdiction.
Sec. 3-5-139. - Removal.
In all instances where the owner of any abandoned or junk motor vehicle and/or trailer as defined herein cannot be determined or the owner of any junk or abandoned motor vehicle and/or trailer refuses to give consent for the county to remove any junk or abandoned motor vehicle and/or trailer which has been determined to constitute a health hazard or unsightly nuisance, following notice as hereinafter provided, such junk or abandoned motor vehicle and/or trailer shall be removed and disposed of under the provisions of O.C.G.A. chapter 40-11, or other applicable law.
Notice of the determination that any such junk or abandoned vehicle, which is on private property, is to be removed shall be given at least three (3) days prior to removal, by the posting of notice on the door of any house or dwelling located on the same property as the junk or abandoned vehicle, or if there is no house or dwelling on such property, following notice posted on the vehicle. Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring notice for the removal of junk or abandoned vehicles on public properties, other than as may be provided by State law.
( Ord. No. 6236 , § 2, 12-21-1999)
Sec. 3-5-140. - Reserved.
