ARTICLE 9. - OBEDIENCE TO RAILROAD CROSSING SIGNALS

Sec. 3-5-62. - Failure to stop for railroad crossing.
Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade crossing, such driver shall stop within fifty (50) feet but not less than fifteen (15) feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and shall not proceed until he can do so safely, when:
(a)
A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train;
(b)
A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to give a signal of the approach of the passage of a train; or
(c)
An approaching train is plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to such crossing.
Sec. 3-5-63. - Disregarding railroad crossing barrier.
No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
Sec. 3-5-64. - Failure to stop for stop sign at railroad crossing.
Wherever particularly dangerous highway grade crossings may exist, stop signs may be erected thereat, requiring all vehicles to stop. Whenever such stop signs are erected, the driver of any vehicle shall stop within fifty (50) feet but not less than fifteen (15) feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
Sec. 3-5-65. - Taxis, school buses and gas trucks to stop at railroad crossings and not change gears while driving across railroad tracks.
(a)
Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or of any school bus carrying any schoolchild, or of any vehicle carrying explosive substances or flammable liquids as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing at grade, track or tracks of a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within fifty (50) feet but not less than fifteen (15) feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and while so stopped shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train and shall not proceed until he can do so safely. After stopping as required in this section and upon proceeding when it is safe to do so, the driver of any such vehicle shall cross only in such gear of the vehicle that there will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing such crossing; and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing the track or tracks.
(b)
No stop need be made at any such crossing where a deputy Sheriff or a traffic-control signal directs traffic to proceed.
Sec. 3-5-66. - Reserved.
