Chapter 9 - SUBDIVISION COVENANTS[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 6183 , § 1, adopted July 20, 1999, set out provisions for Ch. 3 to read as herein set out. See also the Code Comparative Table.

Sec. 8-9-1. - Purpose.
The Augusta-Richmond County Commission has determined that the building of subdivision in phases, and the connecting of subdivisions by connector streets, with dissimilar restrictive covenants being imposed by the developer in the respective sections or subdivisions, leads to incompatible housing and aesthetically dissimilar housing. The Augusta-Richmond County Commission has determined that it is in the public interest to regulate such restrictive covenants to the extent allowed by law, by prohibiting the dedication of public streets and public utilities within said subdivisions with dissimilar covenants.
Sec. 8-9-2. - Acceptance of deeds of dedication of streets and utilities.
A developer of a new subdivision, or of a new phase to an existing subdivision, which has existing restrictive covenants recorded in the Office of the Clerk of Superior Court, shall be required, as a prerequisite to presenting to the County for acceptance a Deed of Dedication to any streets within the subdivision or any utilities within the subdivision, to present to the Executive Director of the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission, restrictive covenants, in a form suitable for recording, to be placed upon the new subdivision or the new section of an existing subdivision. These restrictive covenants must be at least as restrictive as those covenants applicable to the existing subdivision, or the previous phase of a subdivision, to which the new subdivision will connect.
Sec. 8-9-3. - Appeal.
Should the Executive Director of the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission determine that the covenants are not compatible with the existing covenants, the Executive Director shall recommend to the Augusta-Richmond County Commission that it not accept for dedication any public street or utility to be dedicated to the public use. The developer may appeal any such decision or recommendation by the Executive Director to the Augusta-Richmond County Commission.
( Ord. No. 6183 , 7-20-1999)
