ARTICLE 18. - SAFETY REVIEW COMMITTEE

Sec. 3-5-142. - Created.
There is hereby created a body known as Safety Review Committee, hereafter referred to as Committee.
Sec. 3-5-143. - Membership.
The membership of the committee shall consist of eight (8) voting members, as follows:
(a)
One (1) member of the Sheriff's Department holding the rank of major or below;
(b)
One (1) member of the Augusta-Richmond County Fire Department holding the rank of captain or below;
(c)
One (1) member of the correctional institution holding the rank of major or below;
(d)
One (1) member of the recreation Department serving as a first line supervisor or at an administrative management level;
(e)
The Assistant Director, Risk Management shall serve as the Chairperson and shall vote only in the event of a tie vote;
(f)
One (1) member of the public works Department between the rank of Superintendent and Foreman;
(g)
One (1) member of the utilities Department serving as a first line supervisor or at an administrative level (office manager);
(h)
One (1) member of the Marshall's Department holding the rank of captain or below; and
(i)
One (1) member of the Transit Department serving as a first line supervisor or at an administrative level.
Sec. 3-5-144. - Terms of members.
The Sheriff shall select the member from the Sheriff's Department, and the warden of the correctional institution and the director of the other named Departments shall each select a member from his respective Department. Department heads and elected officials of members listed above shall appoint an alternate member to serve in the absence of the primary member. Each member shall serve for a term of two (2) years, unless rescinded by the appointing authority, to be appointed as provided in the Safety-Risk Management Manual. Department heads and elected officials may not be nominated for membership on the board. No member of the board shall be permitted to participate in the evaluation and disposition of a motor vehicle accident involving a member of the Department from which the board member comes. At no time may a member designate a delegate to act on his behalf. A quorum of the committee will consist of five (5) voting members and the chairman.
Sec. 3-5-145. - Duties.
The Safety Review Committee shall have the authority perform the duties, impose penalties, and follow the procedures, including appeals, as set forth in the Safety-Risk Management Manual adopted by Augusta-Richmond County, incorporated herein by reference, and attached as an Appendix to this Code.
Secs. 3-5-146—3-5-160. - Reserved.
