Chapter 2-25 - ENVIRONMENTAL ORDINANCE—CLEAN INDOOR AIR[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Note— (Ordinance of 2/20/03; Amended 1/17/13)

2-25-1 - Title.
This ordinance shall be known as the Glynn County Smoke-free Air Ordinance.
2-25-2 - Findings and Intent.
The Glynn County Board of Commissioners does hereby find that:
Numerous studies have found that tobacco smoke is a major contributor to indoor air pollution, and that breathing secondhand smoke (also known as environmental tobacco smoke) is a cause of disease in healthy nonsmokers, including heart disease, stroke, respiratory disease, and lung cancer. The National Cancer Institute determined in 1999 (Monograph #10) that secondhand smoke is responsible for the early deaths of 65,000 Americans annually.
The Public Health Service's National Toxicology Program has listed secondhand smoke as a known carcinogen (U.S. DHHS, 2000, citing Cal, EPA, 1997).
Secondhand smoke is particularly hazardous to elderly people, individuals with cardiovascular disease, and individuals with impaired respiratory function, including asthmatics and those with obstructive airway disease. Children exposed to secondhand smoke have an increased risk of asthma, respiratory infections, sudden infant death syndrome, developmental abnormalities, and cancer.
The Americans With Disabilities Act, which requires that disabled persons have access to public places and workplaces, deems impaired respiratory function to be a disability.
The U.S. Surgeon General has determined that the simple separation of smokers and nonsmokers within the same air space may reduce, but does not eliminate, the exposure of nonsmokers to secondhand smoke. The Environmental Protection Agency has determined that secondhand smoke cannot be reduced to safe levels by high rates of ventilation. Air cleaners, which are only capable of filtering the particulate matter and odors in smoke, do not eliminate the known toxins in secondhand smoke.
A significant amount of secondhand smoke exposure occurs in the workplace. Employees who work in smoke-filled offices suffer a 25—50 percent higher risk of heart attack and higher rates of death from cardiovascular disease and cancer, as well as increased acute respiratory disease and measurable decrease in lung function.
Smoke-filled workplaces result in higher worker absenteeism due to respiratory disease, lower productivity, higher cleaning and maintenance costs, increased health insurance rates, and increased liability claims for diseases related to exposure to secondhand smoke.
Accordingly, the Glynn County Board of Commissioners finds and declares that the purposes of this ordinance are: (1) to protect the public health and welfare by prohibiting smoking in all public facilities in Glynn County; and (2) to guarantee the right of nonsmokers to breathe smoke-free air, and to recognize that the need to breathe smoke-free air shall have priority over the desire to smoke.
2-25-3 - Definitions.
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this ordinance, shall be construed as defined in this Section:
1.
Dining Area means any enclosed area containing a counter or tables upon which food or snacks are served.
2.
Employee means a person who is employed by an employer in consideration for direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or her services for a non-profit entity.
3.
Employer means a person, business, partnership, association, and corporation, including a municipal corporation, trust, or non-profit entity that employs the services of one or more individual persons.
4.
Enclosed means all space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all sides by solid walls, doorways or windows, which collectively or singly extend from the floor to the ceiling.
5.
Health Care Facility means an institution providing care or treatment of diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical, physiological, or psychological conditions, including but not limited to, hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, and laboratories. This definition shall include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within health care facilities.
6.
Place of Employment means an area under the control of a public employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment, including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, and vehicles.
7.
Public Facility means a building, including a part of a building, or vehicle owned, leased, or operated by Glynn County. Buildings owned by Glynn County but leased or licensed to another individual or entity are not included in the term "public facility."
8.
Service Line means an indoor line in which one or more persons are waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service involves the exchange of money.
9.
Smoking means inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, weed, plant, or other combustible substance in any manner or in any form.
10.
Sports Arena means sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing arenas, swimming pools, county recreational facilities, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys and other similar places where members of the general public assemble either to engage in physical exercise, participate in athletic competition or witness sports or other events.
2-25-4 - Prohibition on Smoking in Public Facilities.
Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public facilities in Glynn County. This prohibition shall apply to all areas in those facilities, whether used as a place of employment or as a place for the conduct of public business, and shall include, without limitation, the following places:
1.
Aquariums, galleries, libraries, and museums.
2.
Childcare and adult day care facilities.
3.
Convention facilities.
4.
Dining areas.
5.
Elevators.
6.
Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage, drama, lecture, musical recital, or other similar performance.
7.
Health care facilities.
8.
Polling places.
9.
Public transportation facilities, including buses and taxicabs, under the authority of Glynn County, and ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public transit depots.
10.
Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other common-use areas.
11.
Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including school building, under the control of an agency, board, commission, committee or council of the Glynn County Board of Commissioners when a public meeting is in progress, to the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction of the Glynn County Board of Commissioners.
12.
Service lines.
13.
Sports arenas, including enclosed places in outdoor arenas.
2-25-5 - Reasonable Distance.
Smoking is prohibited within a reasonable distance of 25 feet outside an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited, so as to ensure that tobacco smoke does not enter the area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or other means.
2-25-5.1 - Use of Tobacco Products on Glynn County Property.
(a)
Smoking and/or the use of any form of tobacco product, including but not limited cigarettes, cigars, pipes, and smokeless tobacco, such as snuff, chewing tobacco, and dipping tobacco, by any person is prohibited and shall be unlawful while at or on the grounds or premises of any of the following public facilities: 1) Harold Pate Building; 2) the Glynn County Courthouse; 3) the Historic Glynn County Courthouse; and 4) the Sheriff's Office and Glynn County Detention Center.
(b)
For the purpose of this Section 2-25-5.1, grounds or premises shall mean and include any County owned or operated part or portion, whether indoor or outdoor, of the property upon which the public facilities named above in Section 2-25.5.1(a) are located, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, any county owned or operated building, land, parking lot, greenspace, walkway, concrete, sidewalk, stairs, lawn, park, grass, outdoor space, and any other improvement or area situated or located thereon and/or on any county owned or operated outdoor space adjacent to such public facilities.
(O-2013-01)
2-25-6 - Where Smoking Not Regulated.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance to the contrary, the following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of Section 2-25-4:
1.
Private residences.
2.
Private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes and long-term care facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers and have requested in writing to be placed in a room where smoking is permitted.
2-25-7 - Posting of Signs.
A.
"No Smoking" signs or the international "No Smoking" symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted in every public facility where smoking is prohibited by this ordinance, by the County Administrator.
B.
Every public facility where smoking is prohibited by this ordinance, including every dining area within such a facility, shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
C.
The County Administrator shall remove all ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia from any area where smoking is prohibited by this ordinance.
2-25-8 - Nonretaliation.
Glynn County shall not discharge, refuse to hire, or in any manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer because that employee, applicant, or customer exercises any rights afforded by this ordinance or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this ordinance.
2-25-9 - Enforcement.
A.
This ordinance shall be enforced by the Glynn County Police Department or other agency designated by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners.
B.
Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this ordinance may initiate enforcement with the Glynn County Administrator.
C.
A manager, operator, or employee of a public facility regulated by this ordinance shall inform persons violating this ordinance of the appropriate provisions thereof.
D.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance, an employee or private citizen may bring legal action to enforce this ordinance.
2-25-10 - Violations and Penalties.
(a)
A person who uses tobacco products or smokes in an area where the use of tobacco products or smoking is prohibited by the provisions of this ordinance shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine not exceeding $50.00.
(b)
Each separate occasion on which a violation of this ordinance occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation whether occurring on the same day or not.
(O-2013-01)
2-25-11 - Public Education.
The Glynn County Administrator shall engage in a continuing program to explain and clarify the purposes and requirements of this ordinance to citizens affected by it, and to guide operators, and managers in their compliance with it. The program may include publication of a brochure explaining the provisions of this ordinance.
2-25-12 - Governmental Agency Cooperation.
The Glynn County Administrator shall annually request other governmental and educational agencies having facilities within the County to establish local operating procedures in cooperation and compliance with this ordinance. This includes urging all Federal, State, County and School District agencies to update their existing smoking control regulations to be consistent with the current health findings regarding secondhand smoke.
2-25-13 - Other Applicable Laws.
This ordinance shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
2-25-14 - Severability.
If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.
2-25-15 - Effective Date.
This ordinance shall be effective 30 days from and after the date of its adoption.
