Chapter 2-20 - EMPLOYEES INDEMNIFICATION PLAN[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Note— (Ordinance of 9/1/88)

2-20-1 - Short Title.
This ordinance may be cited as the "Glynn County Employee Indemnification Plan" or the "Indemnification Plan."
2-20-2 - Authority.
This ordinance is adopted pursuant to Georgia Laws 1974, p. 702; Georgia Laws 1978, p. 1380 and Georgia Laws 1982, p. 3 (O.C.G.A. §§ 45-9-20 to 45-9-23).
2-20-3 - Sovereign Immunity.
Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed as waiving any immunity or privilege of any kind now or hereafter enjoyed by Glynn County, as a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, or by any elected official, appointed officer or employee or by any other department, office, agency, authority, board, or volunteer of Glynn County. Nor shall this ordinance be so construed as to waive any other factual or legal defense which Glynn County or a Covered Employee may have. This ordinance shall not be construed so as to pledge the credit of Glynn County and all amounts to be paid by Glynn County pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance, shall be paid solely out of fund on deposit in "Glynn County Employees' Indemnification Reserve Fund."
2-20-4 - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to words used in this ordinance unless the context in which the words appear demand another definition.
Automobile means a land motor vehicle, or semi-tractor and trailer designed for travel on public roads, to include machinery or apparatus attached thereto.
Bodily Injury means any bodily injury, including sickness, disease or death resulting therefrom, sustained by a person which occurs after the effective date and prior to any repeal of this ordinance.
Board of Commissioners means the duly elected Board of Commissioners of Glynn County.
Compensation means attorney's fees, court costs, deposition costs, witness fees, and all other like costs, expenses and fees.
County means Glynn County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
County Administrator means the chief administrative officer of Glynn County appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
County Officers means those officers who are elected by the citizens of Glynn County pursuant to general or local laws enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia.
Covered Employee means any person employed, elected, hired or allowed to assume a temporary or permanent position or office with Glynn County or with a County Officer or with any of Glynn County's departments, offices, agencies, authorities, or boards, including authorized volunteers acting within the scope of their duties as such.
Damages means money and does not include fines, penalties or punitive damages, or claims asking only for injunctive or equitable relief.
Department means each department, office, agency authority or board of Glynn County.
Error or Omissions means any actual or alleged error or mis-statement or act or omission or neglect or breach of a duty including misfeasance and nonfeasance of a Covered Employee in the discharge of their official duties with Glynn County.
General Liability means liability for bodily injury, personal injury or property damage for which a Covered Employee may be subject, either directly or by reason of liability arising out of an act or the error or omission of a Covered Employee performed in the course and scope of his or her employment.
Glynn County Employees' Indemnification Reserve Fund or Reserve Fund means a fund established by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance.
Gross Negligence means the absence of slight diligence as that term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 51-1-4 and interpreted by the Courts of the State of Georgia.
Motor Vehicle Liability means general liability to which a Covered Employee may be subject either directly or by reason of liability arising out of the use of a motor vehicle owned by Glynn County in the course and scope of employment.
Occurrence means every act of a Covered Employee, including any continuous or repeated exposure to the same or substantially same condition, which results in bodily injury, property damage or personal injury, arising out of a Covered Employee's employment with Glynn County or any department thereof. In addition, regardless whether there has been the same general condition, any series or sequences of personnel action by one or more Covered Employees from one or more departments against any employee shall be deemed one occurrence.
Personal Injury shall mean an injury sustained by a person, which occurs after the effective date and prior to any repeal of this ordinance, arising out of one or more of the following circumstances:
1.
False arrest, detention or imprisonment, or malicious prosecution;
2.
The publication or utterance of libel or slander or other defamatory or disparaging material, or a publication or utterance in violation of an individual's right of privacy; except publication or utterances in the course of or related to advertising conducted by or on behalf of Glynn County or any department thereof;
3.
Wrongful entry or eviction, or any other invasion of the right of private occupancy; or
4.
Any act which gives rise to any liability under any Federal Civil Rights Statute or the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended.
Property Damage means:
1.
Any physical injury to or destruction or loss of tangible property which occurs after the effective date and prior to any repeal of this ordinance, including the loss of use of such property resulting from such injury or destruction; or
2.
Loss of use of tangible property which has not been physically injured or destroyed, provided any such loss is caused by an occurrence after the effective date and prior to any repeal of this ordinance.
Willful and Wanton Misconduct means that entire want of care which would raise the presumption of a conscious indifference to consequences.
2-20-5 - Indemnification.
a)
Covered Employees shall be indemnified by Glynn County out of the Reserve Fund, to the extent funds are available, in an amount not to exceed $100,000.00 for damages, judgments, compensation and amounts paid in settlement pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance which are allowed to be paid or reimbursed by Glynn County under the laws of the State of Georgia and which are actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any actions, suits or proceedings whether real or threatened, in which such person may be involved by reason of his being or having been a Covered Employee. Such indemnification shall be made only in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia and subject to conditions prescribed in this ordinance.
b)
In any instance where the laws of the State of Georgia and the provisions of this ordinance permit indemnification of persons who are or have been Covered Employees only on a determination that certain specified standards of conduct have been met, upon application for indemnification by any such person, the Board of Commissioners shall promptly cause such determination to be made by a majority vote of the Commissioners who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding.
c)
Glynn County will pay on behalf of any Covered Employee, all sums not to exceed $100,000.00 which the Covered Employee shall become legally obligated to pay as damages, court costs, litigation expenses and attorney's fees because of bodily injury, property damage or personal injury resulting from any job related occurrence caused by a Covered Employee. Where damages resulting from any one occurrence are incurred as a combination of bodily injury, property damage or personal injury, all such damages shall be combined in calculating the total liability of Glynn County to be paid out of the Reserve Fund and the total limits of liability of Glynn County to be paid out of the Reserve Fund shall not exceed the sum of $100,000.00 per occurrence, unless otherwise covered by liability insurance.
2-20-6 - Defense.
As a condition to any such right of indemnification, the Board of Commissioners may require that it be permitted to participate in the defense of any such action or proceedings through legal counsel designated by the Board of Commissioners and at the expense of Glynn County. If, however, a Covered Employee refuses to consent to any settlement recommended by Glynn County and shall elect to contest a claim or to continue any legal proceedings in connection with such claim, then Glynn County's liability shall not exceed the amount for which the claim could have been settled plus claims expenses incurred up to the date of such refusal. Such amounts are further subject to the limits of liability set out in this ordinance.
2-20-7 - Insurance.
Glynn County has purchased a liability insurance policy with limits of $1,000,000.00 and a deductible in the amount of $100,000.00. This ordinance shall not be construed as creating any right of indemnification in excess of the deductible amount provided for in the then current liability policy or policies. No right of indemnification shall exist for any amount covered by such insurance policy or in excess of the amount provided by the then current insurance policy and Glynn County shall not be responsible for any amount which, although within the limits of coverage of the then current insurance policy, is not paid by insurance carrier for any reason.
2-20-8 - Other Insurance.
If other valid and collectible insurance is available to a Covered Employee, Covered Employee shall only be entitled to indemnification to the extent the amount of $100,000.00 is not covered by such insurance. When such other insurance is available to a Covered Employee, Glynn County will not indemnify the employee for any cost or compensation incurred in the defense or settlement of any such claim or lawsuit.
2-20-9 - Exclusions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance, no indemnification shall be provided by Glynn County in the following situations:
a)
Activities of any Covered Employee not associated with or related to the Covered Employees' activities in the course and scope of said Employee's employment with Glynn County.
b)
Bodily injury to an employee of Glynn County for which Glynn County may be held liable under any worker's compensation, unemployment compensation or disability benefit law or any similar law.
c)
Bodily injury or property damage to any employee of Glynn County arising out of and in the course and scope of such injury.
d)
Any liability to the government of the United States, or any department, agency or instrumentality thereof, or to the State of Georgia, or to any department thereof, or to any political subdivision or the State of Georgia.
e)
Any damages resulting from the hazardous properties of nuclear material arising out of the operation of nuclear facility by any person or organization.
f)
Any damages arising out of any publication or utterance or slander if the first injurious publication of utterance of the same or similar material, by or on behalf of the any Covered Employee, was made prior to the effective date or after the repeal of this ordinance.
g)
Any action(s) seeking relief in the nature of injunctive relief or any action for declaratory judgment, or both, except when monetary damages are individually sought against a Covered Employee.
h)
Damages resulting from any dishonest, fraudulent or criminal act or omission of any Covered Employee for which a criminal prosecution has been successfully made against any covered employee by verdict or plea of guilty or plea of nolo contender.
i)
Property damages to premises alienated by Glynn County or its departments.
j)
Bodily injury or property damage due to war, whether or not declared, civil war, insurrection, rebellion or revolution, or to any act or condition incidental to any of the foregoing.
k)
Any amount due or payable under the terms of any contractual agreement.
l)
Liability assumed under any contract of agreement.
m)
Bodily injury or property damage arising out of the ownership, maintenance, operation, use of any motor vehicle while being used in any prearranged or organized racing, speed or demolition contest or in any stunting activity, or in practice for or in preparation for any such contest or activity.
n)
"Bodily Injury", "Personal Injury" and/or "Property Damage" (including the loss of use thereof) caused by, contributed to or arising out of the discharge, dispersal, release or escape of smoke, vapors, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, toxic chemicals, liquids or acid, waste material or other irritants, pollutants, contaminants or hazardous material into or upon the land, the atmosphere or any course or body of water, whether above or below ground, arising out of or in the course of the covered employees job duties when abating or removing asbestos or other hazardous material in public places.
o)
Property loss or property damage to any property owned or occupied or rented to any covered employee or property used by any covered employee, or property in the care, custody, or control of any county employee or as to which any covered employee is for any purpose exercising physical control.
p)
Bodily injury, personal injury, or property damage caused by, contributed to or arising out of the gross negligence of a Covered Employee.
2-20-10 - Conditions.
1)
Notice. In the event of any occurrence every covered employee shall be responsible to provide written notice as soon thereafter as practicable to the authorized representative of Glynn County: County Administrator, Glynn County, P. O. Box 879, Brunswick, Georgia 31521; containing particulars sufficient to identify the Covered Employee and other information with respect to the time, place and circumstances of the occurrence as well as the names and addresses of persons alleged to have been injured and all available witnesses. This includes but is not limited to any reports of internal investigations of the occurrence. The covered employee shall cooperate with Glynn County during any investigation.
2)
Claim. A claim by a person or other entity seeking damages will be deemed to have been made when written notice, given to Glynn County in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-11-1, is received by Glynn County.
3)
Suits; Cooperation. If a claim is made or suit is filed against any Covered Employee, the Covered Employee shall immediately forward the original suit papers to the County Administrator, Glynn County, P.O. Box 879, Brunswick, Georgia 31521; and a copy of all such suit papers shall be sent to the County Attorney, at his or her address on file with the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners, including any demand, notice, summons or other process received by said employee or by his representative. The Covered Employee shall cooperate with Glynn County and with the Glynn County Attorney, as well as any representative thereof and, upon request by officials of Glynn County or by the Glynn County Attorney, shall attend hearings and trials and shall assist in effecting settlement and obtaining the attendance of witnesses. The Covered Employee shall not, except at his own cost, voluntarily make any payment, assume any obligation, directly or indirectly, by admission or otherwise, or incur any expenses other than for such emergency medical attention to others as may be imperative at the time of such occurrence. The failure to so cooperate with Glynn County or with the Glynn County Attorney shall terminate Glynn County's obligation to indemnify the covered employee.
4)
No action shall lie against Glynn County unless, as a condition precedent thereto, there shall have been full compliance with all terms and conditions of this ordinance and until the Covered Employee's obligation to pay shall have been finally determined or by written agreement with Glynn county. Glynn County shall not be subject to being imploded into any action by any Covered Employee(s) or by any representative of a Covered Employee(s), and no third party shall have a right to join Glynn County as a party to any action to establish the liability of any covered Employee.
5)
In the event of any payment under this ordinance, Glynn County shall be subrogated to all of the Covered Employee's rights of recovery therefore and against any person or organization and the Covered Employee shall execute and deliver all instruments and papers and do whatever else is necessary to secure such rights. The Covered Employee shall do nothing subsequent to payment under this ordinance to prejudice such rights.
6)
Notice to, or knowledge possessed by, any representative of Glynn County or by any other person shall not effect a waiver or a change in any part of this ordinance or estop Glynn County from asserting any rights under the provisions of this ordinance, nor shall the terms of this Policy be waived or changed, except by duly authorized action of the Board of Commissioners.
7)
There shall be no assignment of any rights created by this ordinance.
8)
This ordinance may be repealed at any time by the Board of Commissioners in exercise of their legislative discretion and no vested property rights shall be created hereby.
9)
This ordinance shall be governed by and construed under and in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia. If any provision of this ordinance is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity of any such provision shall not invalidate the remaining provisions of the ordinance.
2-20-11 - Claims Reporting.
Glynn County shall give prompt notice to its insurance carrier of the following types of law suits or claims:
1)
A case where, in the judgement of Glynn County's attorney, the exposure may exceed $50,000.00;
2)
A demand or demands totaling $100,000.00 or more;
3)
Death;
4)
Paralysis;
5)
Loss of eye(s) or limb(s);
6)
Spinal cord or brain injury;
7)
Sensory organ or nerve injury;
8)
Serious burns; or
9)
Loss of time of six months or more. Where a suit has not been filed, Glynn County's insurance carrier shall be given prompt notice when the amount of claim or loss has been reasonably determined by Glynn County or its County Attorney to be for an amount greater than $100,000.00.
2-20-12 - Administration.
The County Administrator shall be charged with the responsibility of implementing and carrying out the provisions of this ordinance. The County Administrator shall establish rules and regulations to administer the provisions of this ordinance which, at a minimum, shall contain the following provisions:
1)
The County Administrator shall employ and/or retain an insurance adjuster who has sufficient expertise and personnel to assist him in investigating, adjusting and making payment of claims or suits covered by the provisions of this ordinance.
2)
The County Administrator or his designee shall have the authority to settle any claim or claims, the aggregate of which, does not exceed the amount of $1,000.00.
3)
The County Administrator, with the concurrence of the Glynn County Attorney, shall have the authority to settle any claim which does not exceed the amount of $15,000.00.
4)
All claims in excess of the amount of $7,500.00 shall automatically be forwarded to the Glynn County Attorney for his review and comment. Any claim in excess of $15,000.00 shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
2-20-13 - Reserve Fund.
Glynn County, in order to effectuate the provisions of this ordinance, hereby creates a fund, to be known as the "Glynn County Employees' Indemnification Reserve Fund" which shall contain a reserve such as will be sufficient to cover any reasonably anticipated payments under this ordinance. In the first year, fiscal year 1988/89, the reserve level is set at $200,000.00. The Reserve Fund shall appropriate at least annually, or at such other time as the Board of Commissioners shall determine that additional funds are needed to cover reasonably anticipated payments under this ordinance.
2-20-14 - Effective Date.
This ordinance will take effect immediately upon adoption this 1 st day of September, 1988.
