Chapter 2-21 - HEALTH AND SANITATION ORDINANCE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Note— (Revision date: 6/5/08)

2-21-1 - Short Title.
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the "Health and Sanitation Ordinance."
2-21-2 - Authority.
This ordinance is adopted pursuant to Chapter 3 of Title 31 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
2-21-3 - Definitions.
As used in this ordinance, unless the context clearly requires another meaning, the terms:
(1)
Board of Health shall mean the Glynn County Board of Health.
(2)
Food Service Rules and Regulations shall mean the rules and regulations adopted by the Glynn County Board of Health on December 7, 2007, as amended.
(3)
Food Service Establishment shall mean establishments for the preparation and serving of meals, lunches, short orders, sandwiches, frozen desserts, or other edible products either for carry out or service within the establishment. The term includes restaurants, coffee shops, cafeterias, short order cafes, luncheonettes, taverns, lunchrooms, places which retail sandwiches or salads, soda fountains, institutions both public and private, food carts, itinerant restaurants, industrial cafeterias, catering establishments, and similar facilities by whatever name called.
(4)
Mobile Food Service Unit shall mean a trailer, a pushcart, a Vehicle vendor or any other conveyance operating as an extension of a base of operation or a permitted food service establishment.
(5)
On-Site Sewage Management System shall mean a sewage management system other than a public or community sewage treatment system serving one or more buildings, mobile homes, recreational vehicles, residences, or other facilities designed or used for human occupancy or congregation. Such term shall include, without limitation, conventional and chamber septic tank systems, privies, and experimental and alternative on-site management systems which are designed to be physically incapable of a surface discharge of effluent.
(6)
Glynn County shall mean the unincorporated area of Glynn County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, lying outside the corporate limits of the City of Brunswick and outside the boundaries of Jekyll Island State Park.
(7)
Rules of the Glynn County Board of Health for On-Site Sewage Management System shall mean the rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Health on June 2, 2006, as amended.
(8)
Rules for Individual and Semi-Public Water Supply Systems shall mean the rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Health on August 22, 1986, as amended.
(9)
Rules and Regulations for Tourist Courts shall mean the rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Health on March 5, 1996, as amended.
(10)
Rules and Regulations for Semi-Public and Public Swimming Pools, Spas, and Recreational Water Parks shall mean the rules and regulations as adopted by the Glynn County Board of Health on June 3, 2005, as amended.
(11)
Rules and Regulations for Body Art Establishments shall mean the Rules and Regulations as adopted by the Glynn County Board of Health on June 2, 2006, as amended.
(12)
Rules and Regulations for Childhood Lead Exposure Control shall mean the rules and regulations as adopted by the Glynn County Board of Health on June 2, 2006, as amended.
(13)
Rules and Regulations for Rabies Control shall mean the rules and regulations adopted by the Glynn County Board of Health on June 3, 2005, as amended
(14)
Temporary Food Service Establishment shall mean a food service establishment that operates at the same location for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event or celebration.
2-21-4 - Permit/Food Service.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other entity to operate a food service establishment, a mobile food unit, or a temporary food service operation in Glynn County without a valid food service permit issued by the Board of Health, as defined in Food Service Rules and Regulations.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other entity to operate a food service establishment, a mobile food unit, or a temporary food service, operation during any period of time that a permit for such operation has been suspended by the Board of Health.
No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall operate a food service establishment, a mobile food operation, or a temporary food service operation in violation of the "Food Service Rules and Regulations" as adopted by the Board of Health.
2-21-5 - On-Site Sewage Management System.
No building permit for the construction of any residence, building or other facility which is to be served by an on-site sewage management system shall be issued by or pursuant to the authority of the Board of Commissioners of Glynn County unless the system has been permitted and installed in conformity with the rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Health. No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall install or operate an on-site sewage management system in violation of the rules and regulations, adopted by the Board of Health.
2-21-6 - Permit/Individual or Semi-Public Water Supply System.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to install or operate an individual or semi-public water supply system in violation of the "Rules and Regulations for Individual and Semi-Public Water Supply Systems", adopted by the Board of Health. It shall further be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to abandon a well without first complying with the requirements of such rules and regulations.
2-21-7 - Swimming Pool Regulations.
No building permit for the construction of a swimming pool shall be issued by or pursuant to the authority of the Board of Commissioners of Glynn County, unless the swimming pool has been permitted and swimming pool has been constructed in conformity with the rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Health. No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall operate a swimming pool in violation of the "Rules and Regulations for Swimming Pools, Spas, and Recreational Water Parks."
2-21-8 - Tourist Courts; Permit/Operation.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to operate a tourist accommodation in Glynn County without a valid permit issued by the Board of Health. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to operate a tourist accommodation in Glynn County in violation of any rules and regulations of the Board of Health.
2-21-9 - Rabies Control.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other entity to maintain domestic animal(s) in violation of the Rules and Regulations for Rabies Control, including the vaccination of said animals.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to interfere with a rabies control officer, or animal control officer during the investigation of an animal bite.
2-21-10 - Lead.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other entity to offer for sale, rent, or lease any dwelling, dwelling unit, residential housing unit, day-care facility, child care center, school, nursery, clinic, treatment center, or other facility serving the needs of children, including the grounds, outbuildings, or other structures appurtenant to the facility that is in violation of the rules and regulations of the Board of Health pertaining to childhood lead exposure.
2-21-11 - Body Art.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other entity to operate a body art facility in Glynn County without a valid permit issued by the Glynn County Board of Health.
It shall be unlawful for any individual to practice body art procedures in Glynn County without a valid permit issued by the Glynn County Board of Health.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other entity to operate a body art facility in violation of any rules and regulations of the Board of Health.
2-21-12 - Penalty.
Any person, firm, corporation or other entity which violates any provision of this ordinance, upon conviction thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be punished as provided for in Section 2-1-10 of Code of Ordinances, Glynn County, Georgia.
2-21-13 - Severability.
The provisions of this ordinance are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair the remaining provisions. Insofar as the provisions of this ordinance are inconsistent with the provisions of any other ordinance, the provisions of this ordinance shall be controlling.
2-21-14 - Effective Date.
The ordinance shall become effective upon adoption by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners.
2-21-15 - General Repealer.
All laws or parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are repealed.
