ARTICLE VII. - CLEAN COMMUNITY ORDINANCE
DIVISION 1. - IN GENERAL

2-16-231 - Short title.
This Article shall be known and may be cited as the "Clean Community Ordinance."
(Ord. of 11/20/80; Amended 1/8/81; 9/17/81; 6/2/83; 1/22/87; 12/17/87; 4/16/92; 3/20/97; 5/1/97; 02/07/02; 11/06/03—Effective 01/01/04; 09/02/04; 4/21/05; 12/15/05; 03/02/17)
2-16-231.1 - Preamble.
Glynn County, Georgia possesses unique natural assets and amenities which enhance the value and enjoyment of the community by residents, businesses and visitors. These assets are irreplaceable and must be preserved and protected in order to: allow the public's continued enjoyment of these natural resources, enhance property values, prevent nuisances, protect public health and safety, and protect the safety of wildlife. Thus, this ordinance is intended to provide for the uniform prohibition throughout the unincorporated area of the County of any and all littering on public or private property.
2-16-231.2 - Definitions.
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
Aircraft: Any contrivance now known but is not limited to or hereafter invented, used or designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The term "aircraft" includes helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
Authorized Receptacle: A container, not to exceed 95 gallons, of substantial construction, with tight-fitting lid and equipped with handles sufficient for safe and convenient handling. Such receptacles shall be maintained in a serviceable condition at all times.
Commercial Handbill: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
(a)
Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, event, commodity or thing;
(b)
Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial establishment or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or indirectly promoting the interest thereof;
(c)
Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or any event of any kind for which an admission fee is charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; but the terms of this Section shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, when it is held or given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of information. Provided, however, that nothing contained in this Section shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without a license, where such license is or may be required by law of this state or under any ordinance of Glynn County; or
(d)
Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or circulated for advertising purposes for the private benefit and gain of any person so engaged as an advertiser or distributor.
Litter: All forms of discarded materials including but not limited to sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals, animal waste, bottles, glass, cans, boxes, containers, unclaimed papers or paper products, all tobacco products, tires, appliances, furniture, tree and landscape materials, grass trimmings, leaves, mechanical equipment or parts, building or construction materials, tools, machinery, wood, motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts, vessels, aircraft equipment, waste oil, batteries, antifreeze, sludge, or any other discarded material or substance of every kind and description.
Industrial Waste: All waste, including solids, semisolids, sludge and liquids, created by factories, processing plants or other manufacturing concerns.
Discard: To get rid of as unwanted any physical material, substance or thing which has been left, dropped, placed, thrown, dumped or otherwise disposed of in a manner or place that does not reasonably suggest an intent to preserve, protect or retain the use or possession of that which is left.
Disposal Site: A location for the final disposal of solid waste, putrescible waste, hazardous waste or other waste, except this term shall not be deemed to include land or a facility used for the disposal of solid waste or other waste from a single-family dwelling by the owner, occupant or lessee thereof.
Garbage: The by-product of animal or vegetable food resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, or other matter which is subject to decomposition, decay, putrefaction or the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odor, or which during or after decay may serve as breeding areas or feeding material for flies, insects or animals.
Glynn County: The County of Glynn, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
Hazardous Refuse: Materials that are harmful to humans, animals, or environmental health, such as poisons, acids, caustics matter or solutions, chemicals, infected materials, offal, fecal matter, explosives, sewage sludge, radioactive materials and highly flammable substances.
Junked Motor Vehicle: Any vehicle, automobile, truck, van, or trailer of any kind or type that is abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperative, or has no current tag.
Newspaper: Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any newspaper duly entered with the United States Postal Service in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and, in addition thereto, includes any periodical or current magazine, regularly published with not less than four issues per year and sold to the public.
Noncommercial Handbill: Any printed or written matter, any sample, device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a Commercial Handbill or newspaper.
Park: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other public area in Glynn County, owned or used by Glynn County and devoted to active or passive recreation.
Person: An individual, firm, company, partnership, corporation, association, institution, or other legal entity.
Public or Private Property: Means the right-of-way of any road, street, highway, alley, or thoroughfare; any body of water or watercourse, including any river, channel, ditch, canal, stream, and marshland; any tidal or coastal water or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, sidewalk, or public building and the grounds thereof; any refuge, conservation, or recreation area; any residential, private, or farm properties; any timberlands or forests; any dumpsters or litter receptacles; and any other site, place, or location of every kind and description.
Urban Service Tax District: That area of the unincorporated area of Glynn County, where Glynn County provides fire protection and the citizens residing therein pay a specific ad valorem tax for such service.
Vehicle: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
( Ord. No. O-2020-09 , § I, 11/19/2020)
2-16-232 - Littering.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dump, deposit, throw, leave, discard, place, discharge, dispose, drop or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, leaving, discarding, discharging, disposing, or dropping of litter on any public or private property in the unincorporated area of Glynn County, the Urban Service Tax District, or any waters in the unincorporated area of Glynn County, unless:
(i)
The property is designated by Glynn County or an agency of the State of Georgia for the disposal of litter and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property;
(ii)
The litter is placed into a litter receptacle or container installed on the property and the person is authorized or permitted to place litter in such litter receptacle or container; or
(iii)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare.
(b)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, discarded, discharged, disposed, or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of this Section 2-16-232, or any other section of this Division regarding littering, the trier of fact may in its discretion and in consideration of the totality of the circumstances infer that the operator of the conveyance has violated subsection (a) of this Section 2-16-232 or the relevant section regarding littering.
(c)
Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Section 2-16-232, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, left, discarded, placed, discharged, disposed, or dropped on public or private property in violation of this Section 2-16-232, or any other section of this Division regarding littering, is discovered to contain any article or articles, including but not limited to letters, bills, publications, or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, the trier of fact may in its discretion and in consideration of the totality of the circumstances infer that such person has violated subsection (a) of this Section 2-16-232 or the relevant section regarding littering.
( Ord. No. O-2020-09 , § II, 11/19/2020)
2-16-233 - Placement of Litter in Receptacles so as to Prevent Scattering.
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in Authorized Receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public or private property. If a public trash or recycling receptacle is full, persons are responsible for finding another lawful place to dispose of litter properly.
2-16-233.1 - Sweeping Litter into Gutter Prohibited; Keeping Sidewalk Clean—Generally.
No person shall sweep or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place with Glynn County the accumulation of litter from any building or lot from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. No persons shall sweep, blow or dump litter, leaves or other yard waste unto streets, sidewalks, roadsides, parks, or unto others private property.
2-16-233.2 - Same—Merchant's Duty.
No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within Glynn County the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within Glynn County shall keep their business premises free of litter. Merchants are required to use their own trash receptacles and not place business waste in the public trash receptacles.
2-16-234 - Maintenance of General Property.
All owners or occupants of property shall maintain their property in a litter-free condition. No sweeping into sidewalks, streets, gutters or drains. No person shall sweep into or deposit on any street, sidewalk or gutter or into or adjacent to any drainage structure the accumulation of litter from any building or property.
2-16-235 - Special Refuse Disposal.
(a)
Contagious Disease Refuse. The removal of clothing, bedding or other refuse from places where highly infectious diseases have prevailed shall not be placed in receptacles or bulk containers for regular collection. The producers of pathological wastes, or the owners of premises upon which pathological waste is produced shall arrange for disposal of such waste adhering to all federal, state and local laws.
(b)
Disposal of Needles or Hypodermic Instruments. Any person who uses, disposes of, or discards any hypodermic syringes, hypodermic needles, or devices for making hypodermic injections shall be required to dispose of these instruments into containers that are puncture resistant, leak proof on the bottom and sides, sealable, labeled and color coded as biohazardous materials. Any person who uses disposable needles shall be required to dispose of these in containers that are rigid, puncture resistant and leak proof, and which are taped closed or tightly lidded to completely contain the contents therein and prevent any spillage. Said containers shall be disposed of in a manner that adheres to all federal, state and local laws.
(c)
Cardboard boxes and cartons. Prior to depositing refuse for collection in authorized containers or receptacles or in commercial containers, the person disposing of any such boxes or cartons or the person in charge of the premises shall collapse all cardboard boxes and cartons.
2-16-236 - Nuisances Designated.
Within Glynn County, it shall be unlawful for any person having an ownership or leasehold interest in property, having a contractual obligation to manage property, or occupying property, to create, commit, conduct, promote, facilitate, permit, fail to prevent, let happen, or to allow to remain any nuisance in or on such property. For the purpose of this ordinance, the term nuisance is defined to mean any condition which tends to the immediate annoyance of the public in general, or is manifestly injurious to the public health, or safety. A nuisance includes, but is not limited to, the keeping, depositing, or scattering on or over the property of dead animals, stagnant water, decayed vegetables or fruits, filthy privies, unkept stables, junk, trash, litter, or debris, or any dilapidated furniture, appliance, machinery, equipment, building material, junked motor vehicle, boat, or other item which is either in a wrecked, junked, dismantled or inoperative condition, and which is not completely enclosed within a building or a dwelling, or anything having an offensive odor.
2-16-237 - Trash and Weeds—Duty of Person Responsible.
(a)
Within Glynn County, it shall be unlawful for any person having an ownership or leasehold interest in property, having a contractual obligation to manage property, or occupying property to maintain such property, including vacant lots or land, in such a way as to allow trash, garbage, litter, or miscellaneous refuse to accumulate. Drive-in restaurants and other food establishments that permit carry-out food service shall maintain at all times on their premises sufficient receptacles for the disposal of trash, garbage, and miscellaneous refuse.
(b)
Within Glynn County, it shall be unlawful for any person having an ownership or leasehold interest in property, having a contractual obligation to manage property, or occupying property to maintain or cause or permit to be maintained uncut grass or weeds on such property under circumstances that the grass or weeds become a breeding place for insects, rodents or reptiles, or constitutes a fire hazard.
2-16-238 - Abandoned Motor Vehicles.
It shall be unlawful to abandon any motor vehicle as provided in O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1. Any motor vehicle abandoned within the County shall be disposed of by the proper authorities as provided in O.C.G.A. Tit. 40, Ch. 11.
2-16-239 - Litter Thrown by Persons in Vehicles.
No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within Glynn County or upon private property.
2-16-239.1 - Truck Loads and Vehicles Causing Litter.
(a)
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within Glynn County unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any loads, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within Glynn County the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other public place mud, concrete, liquid wastes, paints, or hazardous substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(b)
No person shall drive or move any loaded truck or other vehicle within or upon any Glynn County road or any other public road within Glynn County unless such vehicle and the load therein are covered by canvas or other protective material providing complete coverage, properly secured, so as to prevent any load, contents or litter from becoming loose, detached or blown from the vehicle or from dropping or escaping from the vehicle during movement of the vehicle. No person shall drive or move a motor vehicle that is open to air such as truck beds, jeeps, and convertibles with unsecured trash or litter being open to air.
2-16-240 - Litter in Parks.
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within Glynn County except in public receptacles. Litter shall be deposited in such receptacle to prevent the litter from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not provided or are filled to capacity, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided herein.
2-16-241 - Litter in Oceans, Streams and Rivers, etc.
No person shall throw or deposit any litter in any ocean, pond, lake, river or stream, bay, marsh, fountain, or other body of water in a park or elsewhere within Glynn County.
2-16-242 - Throwing or Distributing Commercial Hand Bills in Public Places.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or Noncommercial Handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within Glynn County. Nor shall any such person hand out or distribute or sell any Commercial Handbill in any public place; provided, however, it shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place within Glynn County for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any Noncommercial Handbill to any person willing to accept it.
2-16-242.1 - Placing Commercial and Noncommercial Hand Bills on Vehicles.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial nor Noncommercial Handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided, however, it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver thereof a Noncommercial Handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it in person.
2-16-242.2 - Evidence of Violating Sections.
It shall be unlawful for any person to direct, order or instigate the placing of commercial or Noncommercial Handbills in violation of sections 3-12-15, 3-12-16, and 3-12-17. Furthermore, in the prosecution for the violation of these sections, the fact that a person, a product or a place of business is advertised on a commercial or Noncommercial Handbill shall be prima facie evidence that the person advertised, or the proprietor of the product advertised, or the proprietor of the place of business advertised, as the case may be, was the person directing the placing, distributing or throwing away the advertising matter in question.
2-16-242.3 - Depositing Commercial and Noncommercial Handbills on Uninhabited or Vacant Premises.
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or Noncommercial Handbill or any newspaper in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously vacant.
2-16-242.4 - Distribution of Handbills Where Properly Posted.
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or Noncommercial Handbill or any newspaper upon any private premises if requested by any person thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on such premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign bearing the words: "No Trespassing," "No Vendors," "No advertisement," or any similar notice indicating in any manner that the occupants of such premises do not desire to have their right of privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left upon such premises.
2-16-242.5 - Distributing Commercial and Noncommercial Handbills at Inhabited Private Premises.
(a)
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or Noncommercial Handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or upon suchprivate premises; provided, however, in case of inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in this Chapter, such person, unless requested by any person upon such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places and except that mail boxes may not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
(b)
The provisions of this Section shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States nor to newspapers (as defined herein), except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
2-16-242.6 - Posting Notices Prohibited.
No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, handbills or other paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamppost, public utility pole or tree, sign or upon any public structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law.
2-16-243 - Litter on Occupied Private Property.
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied property within Glynn County, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain Authorized Receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
2-16-243.1 - Dropping Litter from Watercraft, Aircraft.
No person in a watercraft or aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit any litter within Glynn County.
2-16-243.2 - Private Property to be Maintained Free of Litter.
The owner, occupant, or person in control of any private property shall at all times maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, this Section shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized receptacles for collection.
2-16-243.3 - Litter on Vacant Lots.
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private property within Glynn County, whether owned by such person or not.
2-16-243.4 - Clearing Litter from Open Private Property by Glynn County.
(a)
Notice to Remove. The Glynn County Code Enforcement Division of the Community Development Department and the Glynn County Police Department are hereby authorized and empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant private property within Glynn County or the agent that the conditions of such owner's property constitutes a danger to the public health, safety or welfare. Such notice shall be sent registered or certified mail, addressed to such owner at his last-known address.
(b)
Action Upon Noncompliance. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare within 30 days after receipt of written notice or if the same is returned to the post office because of its inability to make delivery thereof, provided the same was properly addressed to the last-known address of such owner or agent, Glynn County is authorized and empowered to either remove the litter or to pay for its removal.
(c)
Charge Included in Tax Bill. When Glynn County has affected the removal of litter or has paid for its removal, the actual cost thereof, plus accrued interest at the rate of six percent per annum from the date of the completion of the work if not paid by such owner prior thereto, shall be charged to the owner of such property on the next regular tax bill forwarded to such property owner by Glynn County and such charge shall be due and payable by such owner at the time of payment of such bill. The amount to be charged on the tax bill shall be established by sworn statement of an authorized Glynn County Code Enforcement Officer whom provides such statement to the Glynn County Tax Commissioner.
2-16-243.5 - Control of Litter and Debris at Construction Sites.
Construction site operators must control waste, such as discarded building materials, concrete truck washout, chemicals, litter, and sanitary waste, at the construction site that may cause adverse impacts to water quality.
( Ord. No. O-2020-09 , § III, 11/19/2020)
2-16-244 - Penalties.
Any person who violates the Glynn County Clean Community Ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
(a)
The punishment imposed for any violation of this Chapter shall not exceed a fine of $1,000.00 or 60 days imprisonment or both; however, the minimum fine which will be imposed shall be not less than $300.00 for a first offense, $600.00 for a second offense, and $1000.00 for a third or subsequent offense. Each occurrence such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(b)
The person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public property or private right-of-way, for a distance not to exceed two miles, any litter the person has deposited and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution of sentence.
(c)
The person may be directed to pick up and remove from any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that the person has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon prior to the date of execution of sentence so long as the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such private property has given prior permission.
(d)
If in the sound discretion of the Judge of the Magistrate Court, removal of the litter by the person would be unsafe, impractical, not feasible, or impossible, the person may be directed to reimburse Glynn County for the cost of removal and/or cleanup of the litter that the person deposited on public property.
(e)
The Judge of the Magistrate Court may publish the names of persons convicted of violating this ordinance.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

2-16-245 - Director of Utilities Management.
The management and administration of collection, transportation and disposal of refuse shall be under the Utilities Management Division.
2-16-246 - Collections.
Private Collection. It shall be unlawful for any person to collect refuse within the County, except from his or her own residence, business or industrial plant, without first having obtained a proper permit from the Georgia Department of Natural Resources and without first having obtained a County occupational tax license. All licensed private businesses shall meet all federal, state and local laws and regulations.
2-16-247 - Receptacles and Containers.
(a)
Required. Every person in possession, charge or control of any building, or from which business trash, industrial waste or other waste is accumulated or produced, shall be required by this Article to provide and keep in a suitable and accessible location for the licensed private collector, receptacles and containers suitable for the storage of all such waste materials generated at the premises between the established collection dates. Receptacles and containers are to be maintained in good serviceable condition.
(b)
To Be Safe. All receptacles as required by this Article shall be of safe construction and design and shall be maintained in good, orderly and serviceable condition at all times. Any person who does not conform to the requirements of this Article shall be issued a citation for non-compliance and returnable to Magistrate Court.
2-16-248 - Responsible Enforcing Agency, Violations and Penalties.
(a)
The Glynn County Code Enforcement Division of the Community Development Department, the Glynn County Police Department and those employees designated by the department directors of the Glynn County Public Works Department and the Glynn County Recreation Department shall investigate complaints or violations of any provisions of this Article and determine if there has been a violation and initiate an attempt to obtain compliance with this Article by the person in violation thereof.
(b)
The Glynn County Code Enforcement Division of Community Development Department, the Glynn County Police Department and those employees designated by the department directors of the Glynn County Public Works Department and the Glynn County Recreation Department shall be authorized to enforce the provisions of this Article by issuing citations.
Upon appropriate notice to the person, business or industry violating this Article, a judge of Magistrate Court may suspend any service or the use of any facility maintained by the County during the period such violation continues to exist.
(#O-2003-19)
2-16-249 - Punishment.
Any person who violates the provisions of this Division shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in Section 2-16-244 of the Code of Ordinances.
(#O-2003-19; Ord. No. O-2020-09 , § IV, 11/19/2020)
2-16-250—2-16-253 - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COLLECTION

2-16-254 - Precollection Practices—Generally.
The following practices and procedures shall be employed by persons in the County in order to facilitate the collection of solid wastes:
(a)
Refuse. All refuse shall be placed and maintained in containers as specified herein. All containers shall be maintained at all times with tight-fitting lids or covers.
(b)
Standard Refuse Collection. All refuse shall be placed and maintained in containers as specified herein. Tree and shrubbery trimmings not suitable for bagging shall be placed for collection in secured bundles of 36"x24"x24" or less. Each container, bag, or bundle shall not exceed 40 pounds in weight. Refuse shall be placed at curbside for collection no later than 7:00 a.m. on the scheduled collection day, but no earlier than 6:00 p.m. of the previous day. Containers must be removed from curbside within 12 hours following collection.
(c)
Garbage. All garbage placed in containers for collection shall first be drained of all liquids, and shall be wrapped, bagged, or enclosed in paper or plastic material.
(d)
Household Trash. All household trash shall be drained of all liquids prior to its being placed in refuse receptacles. Household trash may be combined with garbage.
(e)
Injurious Trash Items. All waste material of an injurious nature, such as broken glass, light bulbs, sharp pieces of metal, fluorescent tubes and television tubes shall be securely packaged or wrapped for the purpose of preventing injury to the collection crews or other third parties.
(f)
Hazardous Refuse and Building Materials. No hazardous refuse or building materials shall be placed in any household receptacle at any time.
(g)
Yard Trash. Tree and shrubbery trimmings in excess of that allowed for standard collection may be collected by private vendors.
(h)
Trees, Shrubbery Branches, etc. Tree and shrubbery branches, limbs and trimmings cut by landscape or tree service contractors or other commercial workmen or resulting from land being cleared shall be collected and removed by those who have performed the work or shall be removed by the person for whom the work was performed in accordance with all local, state and federal laws.
(i)
Household Furniture, Furnishings and Bulky Items. Upon request, persons requesting this service may schedule an appointment with a private vendor to collect normal household furniture and appliances, such as sofas, chairs, beds, refrigerators, washers, dryers, water heaters and similar items. Special collections are scheduled by appointment and are subject to a fee.
(j)
Back Door Refuse Collection. Back door refuse collection shall be available subject to an additional fee.
(k)
Standard Refuse Collection for Multi-Family Dwelling Projects. Standard refuse collection for multi-family dwelling projects shall be by on-site bulk containers. Entire rowhouse condominium complexes may receive individual curbside collection.
2-16-255 - Same—Prohibited Activities—Generally.
The following activities are hereby declared to be unlawful and in violation of this Article.
(a)
Reserved.
(b)
Blockage of Drainage. No person shall place any refuse, trash, refuse receptacles, or containers on, over or near any storm drain or drainage ditches, or so close thereto as to cause such material to interfere in any way with such drainage.
(c)
Unauthorized Storage. Any accumulation of refuse or trash items on any lot, property, premises, public streets, alley or other public or private place not permitted by this Article is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Failure of owner or occupant to remove and correct any such accumulation of refuse shall raise the presumption that such person intended to violate this Article.
(d)
Junk. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or leave outside any building or dwelling except as specified in subsection (5) any dilapidated furniture, appliance, machinery, equipment, building material, junked motor vehicle, or other items which is either in a partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or inoperative condition, and which is not completely enclosed within a building or dwelling. Any such item or items which remain on the property of the occupant for a period of 30 days after notice of violation of this Article, shall be presumed to be abandoned and subject to being removed from the property by the County without further notice. The County may charge the owner or occupant a fee for the cost of removing said item or items. This Section shall not apply to licensed junk dealers or currently licensed establishments engaged in the repair, rebuilding, reconditioning, or salvaging of equipment or furniture.
(e)
Appliances. It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside any building in a place accessible to children any appliance, refrigerator, or other container which has an airtight snap lock or similar device without first removing there from the lock or door. This Section shall not apply to any appliances, refrigerators or container which has been placed on or adjacent to the rear of the building and which has been crated, strapped or locked so that it will be impossible for a child to obtain access to any compartment thereof.
(f)
Scavenging. No person other than the owner thereof, or an agent or employee of the County, shall disturb or interfere with any container used for the purpose of storing refuse pending its collection, or remove any contents there from or remove such container from its location.
(g)
Scattering of Refuse and Littering Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
(1)
Throw or deposit any refuse on any public or private street or to scatter such refuse or litter on any public or private property; or
(2)
Throw or deposit any refuse, trash, or debris in any marsh area, stream, drainage ditch, body of water or beach area.
(h)
Use of Streets. It shall be unlawful for any vehicle transporting loose materials on any County road to transport same without suitable covers securely fastened to the vehicle. This Section shall not apply to the transportation of poultry, livestock, silage or other feed grain used in the feeding of poultry or livestock.
( Ord. No. O-2020-09 , § V, 11/19/2020)
2-16-256 - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-2020-09 , § VI, adopted November 19, 2020, repealed § 2-16-256, which pertained to same—handbills and advertising matters and derived from O#2004-15.
2-16-257 - Residential Collection Generally.
Refuse collection shall be at a minimum of once each week.
2-16-258 - Commercial Establishments Generally.
Service to commercial establishments will be provided generally at a minimum of once each week.
2-16-259 - Bulk Containers.
Any commercial establishment or multi-family project that furnishes and maintains a bulk container shall meet the requirements set forth in this Article. Containers are to be kept clean, neat, painted and in a good state of repair.
2-16-260 - Holidays.
Residential collections may not be made on legally designated County holidays except as the County may provide by contract for solid waste services.
2-16-261 - Special Refuse and Wastes.
(a)
Industrial Waste. Industrial waste shall be collected, removed and disposed of by any factory, plant or enterprise creating or causing said waste.
(b)
Hazardous Refuse. No hazardous refuse shall be placed in any household receptacle used for collection of refuse.
(c)
Building Materials. The owner will be responsible for the collecting or hauling of building material originating from private property preliminary to, during or subsequent to the construction of new building, alterations or additions to an existing building of whatever type or from demolition of existing structures. Such material shall be removed by the owner of the property or by the contractor.
(d)
Hazardous or Liquid Waste. Hazardous or liquid waste or highly combustible industrial waste shall be disposed of in a manner which meets all federal, state and local laws and regulations.
2-16-262 - Solid Waste Collection Ordinance.
(a)
Jurisdiction. The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to all unincorporated areas of Glynn County, except Jekyll Island State Park.
(b)
Definitions.
(1)
Business: Any person, wholly-owned corporation, individual, or sole proprietorship or other legal entity which engages in, causes to be engaged in, and/or represents or holds out to the public to be engaged in any occupation or activity with the object of gain or benefit, either directly or indirectly.
(2)
Business Location: The physical location of a business. This definition does not include a temporary work site.
(3)
Dwelling Unit: A building or portion of a building designed, occupied, or intended for occupancy as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary facilities provided therein. The term dwelling unit shall not be deemed to include individual rooms or suites in a hotel, motel, rooming house, or hospital.
(4)
Mobile Home Park: An undivided parcel of land under single management which is used or intended to be used for rental or lease of spaces or lots and the provision of services for two or more mobile homes.
(5)
Mobile Home: A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed without a permanent foundation for year-round occupancy, which can consist of one or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes, and subsequently expanded for additional capacity, or of two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined into one integral unit.
(6)
Multi-Family Dwelling: A dwelling designed for or occupied by three or more persons or families living independently of each other.
(7)
Non-homestead Mobile Home: A mobile home that sits upon property owned by one other than the owner of the mobile home.
(c)
Assessment and Allocation. There is assessed upon every dwelling unit in Glynn County a fee for providing solid waste collection and disposal to be levied upon the owners of residential property in an amount to be set by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners each year. In the case of a non-homestead mobile home, the fee for providing solid waste collection and disposal shall be levied upon the owner of the mobile home. Each dwelling unit within Glynn County shall be provided with a solid waste receptacle unless the property owner elects to contract with a private vendor for on-site solid waste collection and disposal under subsection (e), paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 of this Section.
(d)
Collection by Tax Commissioner. All fees for solid waste collection and disposal shall be assessed upon the tax commissioner's books for each year and shall be collected by the tax commissioner. After collection, the tax commissioner shall transfer the solid waste fee to the county treasury at the same time as county ad valorem taxes. In collection of this solid waste fee, the tax commissioner shall have the authority to resort to any remedy or right allowed by law for the collection and payment of county ad valorem taxes.
The tax commissioner shall prepare and mail to each owner of residential property and to each owner of a non-homestead mobile home an annual billing for solid waste fees. The property owner shall be assessed a solid waste fee for each dwelling unit on the property. This solid waste fee will appear as a separate line item assessment on the owner's annual property tax bill and shall become due and payable at the same time that county taxes are due and payable. Each year's payment entitles the property owner to solid waste collection and disposal service for each dwelling unit at that property location for the succeeding year. If the solid waste fee remains unpaid, the tax commissioner or an authorized designee, shall have the authority to issue a writ of fieri facias or execution against the property served. The writ of fieri facias or execution shall have the same lien dignity and priority as a writ of fieri facias or execution issued for county ad valorem taxes. Each annual installment shall become a lien against the property served on January 1 of each year in the same manner and same priority that a lien attaches for county ad valorem taxes. Any solid waste fee that remains unpaid shall accrue penalty, interest, and fieri facias, charges in the same manner and the same rate as delinquent county ad valorem taxes.
(e)
Exemptions.
1.
Sixty-two and Over. Any dwelling unit owned in whole or in part by an individual who is 62 years old as of January 1 of the service year and whose income falls below the federal poverty guidelines, as issued from time to time by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, shall be exempt from this solid waste fee. In order to qualify for this exemption, the individual must submit an exemption application to the County Administrator, or their designee, by August 1 of the service year. Applications for this exemption must be filed every year, including those individuals that have previously applied for, and received, this exemption.
2.
Mobile Home Parks and Multi-Family Dwellings. In lieu of payment of this solid waste fee, an owner of a mobile home park or a multi-family dwelling may produce proof to the County Administrator, or their designee, clearly showing payment of a full year's fees to a private vendor or an executed contract with a private vendor to provide for on-site solid waste collection services for all dwelling units on the property for the entire service year. In order to qualify for this exemption, the owner must submit such proof to the County Administrator between January 1 and August 1 of each year. Applications for this exemption shall apply to the succeeding service year. If the contract between the property owner and the private vendor should be terminated at any time during the service year, the property owner shall give written notice to the County Administrator within three business days of termination of the contract. Property owner shall have seven business days from mailing such notice to obtain replacement solid waste collection and disposal service from a private vendor and to produce proof of this service to the County Administrator. Notice shall be deemed given on the date of mailing the notice. If the property owner does not obtain replacement service and produce proof of that service to the County Administrator within seven business days of the notice of termination, the Tax Commissioner shall bill the solid waste fee to the property owner on a pro-rated basis with the owner paying 1/12 of the annual fee for each of the months or parts of months remaining in that year.
3.
Business Owners. In lieu of payment of this solid waste fee, a property owner that is also the owner of a business may produce proof to the County Administrator, or their designee, clearly showing payment of a full year's fees to a private vendor or an executed contract with a private vendor to provide for on-site solid waste collection services for the owner's business location for the entire service year. The property owner shall also submit a sworn, written statement declaring that they, as the business owner, possess the exclusive right to manage and control the disposal of solid waste at the business location. The statement shall also declare that the property owner possesses the exclusive right to deposit their household solid waste at the business location and that there is sufficient capacity to accommodate their household solid waste. In order to qualify for this exemption, the property owner must submit such proof to the County Administrator between January 1 and August 1 of each year. Applications for this exemption shall apply to the succeeding service year. This exception to payment of the solid waste fee shall apply only to the property owner's place of residence. If the contract between the property owner and the private vendor should be terminated at any time during the service year, the property owner shall give written notice to the County Administrator within three business days of termination of the contract. The property owner shall have seven business days from mailing such notice to obtain replacement solid waste collection and disposal service from a private vendor and to produce proof of this service to the County Administrator. Notice shall be deemed given on the date of mailing the notice. If the property owner does not obtain replacement service within seven business days of the notice of termination, the property owner shall immediately submit payment of the solid waste fee to the Tax Commissioner on a pro-rated basis with the owner paying 1/12 of the annual fee for each of the months or parts of months remaining in that year.
4.
Disability. Any dwelling unit owned in whole or in part by an individual who, as of January 1 of the service year, has been found, adjudged, or declared totally (100 percent) disabled and unable to work by either the U.S. Social Security Administration or U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and whose income falls below the federal poverty guidelines, as issued from time to time by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, shall be exempt from this solid waste fee. In order to qualify for this exemption the individual must submit an exemption application to the County Administrator, or their designee, by August 1 of the service year. Applications for this exemption must be filed every year, including those individuals that have previously applied for, and received, this exemption.
5.
Other Exemptions. The Finance Committee may make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners to consider amendments to this ordinance to provide for further exemptions. Proposed exemptions to this ordinance must be placed on the agenda of a regularly scheduled open meeting of the Finance Committee.
6.
Appeals. Whenever an application for an exemption filed in accordance with paragraphs 2, 3, or 4 of this subsection has been disapproved, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Finance Committee. Such appeals shall be taken within 30 days of the date of the decision by filing with the County Administrator, or their designee, a written notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the County Administrator, or their designee, shall place the appeal on the agenda of a regularly scheduled open meeting of the Finance Committee. The decision of the Finance Committee is final insofar as administrative remedies of the applicant are concerned.
7.
Penalties. Failure of a property owner to notify the County Administrator of the termination of private solid waste collection and disposal service as required by this ordinance shall be punishable by a fine of $500.00.
(f)
Property Tax Appeals. If a residential property owner files an appeal concerning the amount of county ad valorem taxes under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-311, the owner shall pay the solid waste fee in full.
(g)
Partial Year Service. If construction is begun on undeveloped residential property after January 1st, the tax commissioner shall bill the property owner upon the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the property. The solid waste fee in such an instance shall be billed on a pro-rated basis with the owner paying 1/12 of the annual fee for each of the months or parts of months remaining in that year.
(h)
Severability. Should any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances for any reason be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or void, the validity of the remainder of this ordinance, or the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby to the extent that any remaining portion of the ordinance may reasonably be given effect without the invalid or void portion.
(Ordinance of 04/21/05; Amended 12/15/05; 11/6/08; O#-2005-21)
2-16-263—2-16-266 - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS

2-16-267 - Use of Bulk Containers.
All commercial establishments shall provide on-site bulk containers for the collection and storage of household trash. The bulk containers shall be installed so as to eliminate wind-driven debris and unsightly litter in and about premises. Any spillage or overflow shall be immediately cleaned up by said establishment.
2-16-268 - Loading and Unloading Areas.
All loading and unloading areas shall be provided with refuse receptacles for loose debris, paper, packaging materials and other trash. The owner or occupant of the commercial establishment or multi-family project shall place a sufficient number of containers in said area to maintain a clean, neat and sanitary condition at all times. The occupant of the premises shall ensure that all litter is placed in the proper container and the area is kept clean.
2-16-269 - Parking Lots.
(a)
Receptacles within parking areas shall be weighted or attached to the ground as necessary to prevent spillage. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or his agent to collect the refuse and trash deposited in such containers and store until collected.
(b)
It shall be the obligation of all persons using the parking areas to place any litter in receptacles or containers and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dump, scatter, or throw on any parking lot, any refuse, garbage or trash of any kind.
2-16-270 - Construction Sites and Demolition Sites.
All construction and demolition contractors shall provide on-site refuse receptacles, bulk containers, or detachable containers for loose debris, paper, building material waste, scrap building materials and other trash produced by those working at the construction site. The site shall be kept in a litter-free condition. The number of refuse receptacles (not to exceed four bulk containers, or detachable containers) shall be determined by the size of the job. Dirt, mud, construction materials or other debris upon any public or private property belonging to a person other than the owner of the construction site shall be removed by the contractor upon completion of the construction.
2-16-271—2-16-275 - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - DISPOSAL SITES

2-16-276 - Permit Required for Private Sites.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit to be deposited on land under his ownership and control any refuse without first having obtained a disposal area permit as required by any regulation of the
Georgia Department of Natural Resources, the Federal Environment Protection Agency and the Glynn County Board of Commissioners.
2-16-277 - General Maintenance.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of any private disposal site to keep the site in an orderly condition and maintained so as not to be a public nuisance of a menace to public health.
2-16-278 - Right to Enter to Inspect.
The Utility Director, Code Enforcement Officer, or other designated representative shall have the right to enter a private disposal site at any time during normal business hours for the purpose of inspecting the site to determine whether or not the site is in compliance with this Article and all other pertinent laws and regulations of the County.
2-16-279 - Burning Prohibited.
(a)
No person shall set fire to, or burn any papers or other refuse deposited at any disposal site or on the grounds thereof, within the urban service tax district.
(b)
No garbage or other materials, from which offensive odors emanate during combustion, shall be burned outside of any building within the urban service tax district.
DIVISION 6. - SURFACE DRAINAGE

2-16-280 - Restrictions.
No person(s) shall throw or place any building material, business trash, garbage, hazardous refuse, household trash, industrial waste or litter as defined in Section 2-16-233 of this Article in any ditch, stream, river, tidal creek, drainage collection system or retention basin that regularly or periodically carries surface water runoff. Any person(s) who deposits any of the above shall immediately remove or be responsible for the immediate removal of said materials.
2-16-281 - Punishment.
Any person violating the provisions of this Division shall be punished as provided for in Section 2-16-163 of the Code of Ordinances.
2-16-282 - Reimbursement of Costs.
In the event the County deems it necessary to remove said materials contractually or with its own force and/or bring civil action to enforce the terms of this Division, the violator shall be responsible for all contractual, County force, court costs and attorney fees incurred by the County.
2-16-283—2-16-292 - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - ANNUAL SOLID WASTE SERVICE FEES
An occupant is exempt from paying the annual solid waste service fee for curbside collection if he/she has annual income delineated under the Federal Poverty Guideline Levels. An occupant must apply in writing, in a form and manner determined by the Finance Director, each year to receive the exemption.

2-16-293 - Residential Curbside Reinstatement Fees.
When service has been stopped by the County due to nonpayment of the solid waste collection fees, a $10.00 administrative fee will be assessed to the customer by the County in order to reinstate the service. When the County has instructed the Contractor to remove a cart due to non-payment and the cart has been removed, prior to the reinstatement of service and return of the cart, an additional $25.00 fee will be charged to the customer and remitted by the County to the Contractor. Such fees may be waived by the Finance Director should it appear that the mailed billing notice was not received by the occupant.
(Section added 11/07/02)
2-16-294—2-16-300 - Reserved.
