Chapter 2-1 - CODE, GENERAL PROVISIONS

2-1-1 - How Code Designated and Cited.
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments, embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated, the "Code of Ordinances, Glynn County, Georgia" and may be so cited.
This entire compilation consisting of Parts I and II and appendices, shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Glynn County, Georgia" or "Glynn County Code", and may be so cited.
2-1-2 - Rules of Construction.
In the construction of this Code the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Board of Commissioners:
Chairman, other Officers. Whenever the word "chairman" is used it shall mean the chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Glynn County. Whenever titles of various officers are used, they shall refer to the persons holding such positions with Glynn County.
Commissioner shall mean any person elected to that office in Glynn County.
Board of Commissioners, Board, Commission, County Commission, Governing Authority, and Governing Body shall mean the lawfully and duly constituted governing body of Glynn County.
Computation of Time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege, or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted; and if the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in section 14-1809, Georgia Code Annotated, enumerating public and legal holidays, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following day to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty, however, when said following day shall be a Saturday or Sunday, the party shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty.
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 102-102(8).
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Glynn County, Georgia.
Delegation of Authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing one gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders, if the context admits.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint Authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and Proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include the persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant agent or employee.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and Technical Words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or, And. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner", applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, or tenant in partnership, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal Property shall include every species of property except real property, as herein described.
Preceding, Following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the word "premises" is used it shall mean place or places.
Property. The word "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public Place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, school yards or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real Property shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal. The word "seal" shall mean the county seal, the seal of the corporation.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or Subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "state" or "the state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the county.
Tenant, Occupant. The words "tenant" or "occupant", applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" shall mean seven days.
Written or In Writing shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
State Law reference— Definitions of terms used in statutes, O.C.G.A. §§ 102-102, 102-103.
2-1-3 - Catchlines of Sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in italicized type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
2-1-4 - Construction of Ordinances.
The same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and ordinances and resolutions of this county, as are applied in construing the status of this state, which rules are found in sections 102-101 and 102-103, Georgia Code Annotated, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
2-1-5 - Effective Date of Ordinances and Resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time, take effective immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
2-1-6 - Effect of Repeal of Ordinances and Resolutions.
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not revive any ordinance or resolutions in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed to cause of action arising under the ordinance or resolution repealed.
2-1-7 - Severability.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the Board of Commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
2-1-8 - Amendments; Effect of New Ordinances and Resolutions; Amendatory Language.
All ordinances and resolutions passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances and resolutions, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances and resolutions as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted anew by the board of commissioners.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _______ of the Code of Glynn County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows;......" The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
2-1-9 - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever (except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners or state legislature) which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby.
2-1-10 - Violations.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the County any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefore, the violation of such provision of this Code of any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine not exceeding $500.00 and costs or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or to both such fine and imprisonment, any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge.
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or of license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the Code.
