Chapter 2-10 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Note— (Ordinance of 2/19/76; 7/94)

2-10-1 - Scramblers—Definition.
A scrambler is an electronic piece of equipment designed for dissecting the transmitting voice into parts so as to require a receiver capable of restructuring the bits of voice into an intelligible arrangement of words easily deciphered.
2-10-2 - Same—Purchase or Use of Monitors.
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person, business, or agency to purchase and use a scrambler monitor that is compatible with the scramblers and radios used by police calls and transmissions by the county police department.
2-10-3 - Same—Agreement Prerequisite to Sale.
It shall be unlawful for any person, business or agency to sell a scrambler of the above type to any person, business or other government agency without a signed agreement between the party and the county police department.
2-10-4 - Same—Alteration of Radio to Receive Calls.
It shall be unlawful for any person, business or agency to alter, build or change any other radio device in such a manner as to enable any person to receive or transmit the police calls of the county police department that are being sent or received by a scrambler device.
2-10-5 - Same—Intent of Restrictions.
The intent and purpose of Sections 2-10-1 through 2-10-4 is to enable the county police department to give orders and direct activities involving the combating of crime with the same assurance that the public has to a private telephone conversation without fear of eavesdropping.
2-10-6—2-10-9 - Reserved.
2-10-10 - Curfew for Minors.
A.
Hours and Conditions of Curfew. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years of age (hereafter called minors) to be or remain upon any street, alley, park or other public property in Glynn County, Georgia except the public road, sidewalk or right-of-way immediately adjacent to the minor's domicile or on any private property without the express consent of the owner or person entitled to possession thereof (if different than the owner) between the hours of 12:00 p.m. midnight to 5:00 a.m. except that the following conditions shall excuse any such presence:
1.
The minor is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian;
2.
The minor is going to or from or engaged in his or her lawful employment; or
3.
The minor is going immediately to or from or engaged in any event sponsored by any school or church.
B.
Procedures. When any minor is believed by a peace officer to be in violation of this ordinance, he shall issue a juvenile complaint returnable to the Glynn County Juvenile Court. If the minor is 17 years of age, the officer shall issue a citation for violation of an ordinance which shall be returnable to the Magistrate Court of Glynn County, Georgia. The minor shall be detained and an attempt shall be made to contact the minor's parent or guardian. Such minor shall be released to the parent or legal guardian or referred to the Juvenile Court for disposition if under 16 years of age or taken to the Glynn County Detention Facility if 17 years old.
In every instance of a suspected violation of this ordinance by a minor, inquiry shall be made as to whether the parent(s) or natural guardian(s) of said child have also violated this ordinance.
C.
Violations. Any minor willfully violating this ordinance shall be punished for a misdemeanor. Any parent or legal guardian who knowingly and willfully encourages, permits, causes, abets, connives, aids or by omission suffers a child to violate this ordinance shall be punished for a misdemeanor.
D.
Effective Date. This ordinance shall be effective on the 7 th day of July, 1994.
(O-1994-6)
