ARTICLE VI. - GAS CODE

2-5-90 - Scope.
There is hereby adopted and prescribed for Glynn County, Georgia, a gas code which shall apply to and be effective only within that area of Glynn County lying outside the corporate limits of the City of Brunswick and all references hereinafter made to the application of said gas code of Glynn County shall mean the area of said county lying outside the corporate limits of the City of Brunswick.
2-5-91 - International Fuel Gas Code Adopted and Incorporated by Reference.
The gas code adopted and prescribed for Glynn County is that code contained and identified as the International Fuel Gas Code, 2006 Edition With Georgia Amendments (hereinafter referred to as the "Gas Code"). Three copies of said Code are filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the Glynn County Building Official, Glynn County, Georgia. Reference is hereby had to said gas code contained in said Ordinance and incorporated herein by reference and shall have the same force and effect as though set out verbatim in this ordinance. When the International Fuel Gas Code is amended and such amendment is adopted by the State of Georgia, that amendment shall be automatically adopted by Glynn County excepting only those portions specifically deleted, modified or amended by the Glynn County Board of Commissioners.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-92 - Application of Gas Code.
The provisions of this code shall apply to the installation of consumer's gas piping, gas appliances and related accessories as covered in this code.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-93 - Administration and Enforcement.
The administration and enforcement of this ordinance by the Board of Commissioners of Glynn County, herein referred to as Commissioners, shall be through the Glynn County Building Official, herein identified as Building Official, his assistant or assistants.
2-5-94 - Duties of Building Official.
It shall be the duty of the Building Official to enforce the provisions of the Gas Code and to make the inspections and tests required hereunder shall be prepared by the installer and made by the Building Official at a time prearranged.
The Building Official and his authorized assistants or representatives shall carry sufficient identification entering any premises for the purpose of inspecting any gas installation at such times as may be required to ensure compliance with the provision of this ordinance.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-95 - Conformity to Gas Code.
All installations, repairs and alterations of gas in Glynn County shall be performed, from the effective date of this ordinance, in accordance with the provisions of the Gas Code as adopted herein.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-96 - Permit Fees.
For issuing each permit not permitted under an all inclusive building permit, the fee shall be $30.00.
If a reinspection is required, an additional fee of $20.00 will be charged;
If any person commences any work before obtaining the necessary permit and inspection, fees shall be doubled; and
Any and all fees shall be paid by the person to whom the permit is issued.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting an individual from installing or repairing his own appliances or installing, extending, replacing, altering, or repairing consumer's piping on his own premises, provided, however, all such work must be done in conformity with all other provisions of this code, including those relating to permits, inspections and fees.
Application fees for variance/appeal to provisions of the Gas Code shall be $75.00 dollars per application.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-97 - Violation and Punishment.
Any person, firm, corporation, or agent who shall violate any of the requirements of this ordinance and the provisions of the Gas Code, upon conviction thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor under the provisions of O.C.G.A. ยง 36-13-12.
(Amended 08/02/07; #O-2007-12)
2-5-98 - Preventing Continuation of Unlawful Gas Installations.
In case any installation, maintenance, extension, or alteration involving gas is made or is proposed to be made in violation of this ordinance, the Board of Commissioners, Glynn County, Georgia, in addition to other available remedies, may institute injunction or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful installation, maintenance, extension, or alteration involving gas in Glynn County.
Effective 12/1/89 except for Fee Schedule which was effective 9/1/89.
2-5-99 - Reserved.
