ARTICLE IV. - GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALES, FIRE SALES, ETC.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-119. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fire and other altered goods sale means a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged or altered by fire, smoke, water, or other means.
Going-out-of-business sale means a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of goods on hand, the business will cease and be discontinued, including, but not limited to, the following sales: adjuster's; adjustment; alteration; assignee's; bankrupt; benefit of administrator's; benefit of creditors'; benefit of trustees; building coming down; closing; creditor's committee; creditor's end; executor's; final days; forced out; forced out of business; insolvent; last days; lease expires; liquidation; loss of lease; mortgage sale; receiver's; trustee's quitting business.
Goods means any goods, wares, merchandise, or other property capable of being the object of a sale regulated under this article.
Removal of business sale means a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods on hand and will then move to and resume business at a new location in the city, or will then continue business from other existing locations in the city.
(Code 2003, § 32-209(2))
Sec. 10-120. - Persons exempted.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to or affect the following persons:
(1)
Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent jurisdiction;
(2)
Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials;
(3)
Duly licensed auctioneers selling at auctions; or
(4)
Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine, or other publication who publishes in good faith any advertisement, without knowledge of its false, deceptive, or misleading character, or without knowledge that the provisions of this article have not been complied with.
(Code 2003, § 32-209(3))
Sec. 10-121. - Adhere to inventory.
A licensee under this article shall make no additions, whatsoever, during the period of the licensed sale, to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached to the application for license.
(Code 2003, § 32-209(8)(A))
Sec. 10-122. - Advertising.
(a)
Advertise properly. A licensee under this article shall refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive, or misleading advertising.
(b)
Adhere to advertising. A licensee under this article shall conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity with any advertising or publicity incident thereto.
(Code 2003, § 32-209(8)(B), (C))
Sec. 10-123. - Keep duplicate inventory.
A licensee under this article shall keep available at the place of sale a duplicate copy of the inventory submitted with the application and present such duplicate copy to inspecting officials upon request.
(Code 2003, § 32-209(8)(D))
Sec. 10-124. - Segregate non-inventories goods.
A licensee under this article shall keep any other goods separate and apart from the goods listed in the filed inventory as being objects of sale and make such distinction clear to the public by placing tags on all inventoried goods in and about the place of sale, apprising the public of the status of all such goods.
(Code 2003, § 32-209(8)(E))
Secs. 10-125—10-146. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 10-147. - Required; application.
(a)
License required. Any person selling or offering to sell any goods within this municipality at a sale to be advertised or held out by any means to be a going-out-of-business sale, or removal of business sale, or a fire and other altered stock sale, as such terms are defined in section 10-119, shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk/treasurer in the manner specified in this chapter.
(b)
Application. Application for a license under this division shall be made as provided in subsection (a) of this section, except that such application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be the object of the sale, if other than the applicant;
(2)
The true name and address of the person from whom such owner purchased the goods to be sold and the price therefor, and, if not purchased, the manner of such acquisition;
(3)
A description of the place where such sale is to be held;
(4)
The nature of the occupancy, whether by lease or sublease, and the effective date of termination of such occupancy;
(5)
The dates on which and the period of time in which the sale is to be conducted;
(6)
A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale, including the reasons for the urgent and expeditious disposal of goods thereby and the manner in which the sale will be conducted;
(7)
The means to be employed in advertising such sale, together with the proposed content of any advertisement; and
(8)
A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold at such sale, as disclosed by the applicant's records. Such inventory shall be attached to and become a part of the required application. All goods included in such inventory shall have been purchased by the applicant for resale on bona fide orders without cancellation privileges, and shall not comprise goods purchased on consignment.
(Code 2003, § 32-209(1), (4))
Sec. 10-148. - Restriction on issuance.
No license shall be issued to any person who has held a sale, as regulated under this article, at the location stated in the application within one year from the date of such application.
(Code 2003, § 32-209(6))
Sec. 10-149. - Conditions of issuance.
A license shall be issued under this division on the following terms:
(1)
Nature of sale. The license shall authorize only the one type of sale described in the application at the location named therein.
(2)
Saleable goods. The license shall authorize only the sale of goods described in the inventory attached to the application.
(3)
Surrender of general license. Upon being issued a license under this division for a going-out-of-business sale, the licensee shall surrender to the city clerk/treasurer all other business licenses he may hold at that time applicable to the location and goods covered by the application for a license under this division.
(4)
Restricted location. Where a person applying for a license under this chapter operates more than one place of business, the license issued shall apply only to the one store or branch specified in the application.
(5)
Nontransferability. Any license provided for in this division shall not be assignable or transferable.
(Code 2003, § 32-209(7))
Sec. 10-150. - Fee established.
The business license fee for each person conducting a sale regulated by the provisions of this division shall be set by resolution of the council.
(Code 2003, § 32-209(5))
Secs. 10-151—10-168. - Reserved.
