Chapter 24 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Revenue and taxation, O.C.G.A. title 48.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 24-1. - Municipal tax sales.
Municipal tax sales shall be conducted and governed in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359. The city clerk/treasurer shall attend all such sales.
(Code 2003, § 4-114)
Sec. 24-2. - Gross direct premiums tax.
(a)
Rate of levy on life, accident, and sickness insurers.
(1)
There is hereby set and levied for the year 1994, and for each calendar year thereafter upon each company authorized to write life, accident, and sickness insurance and which is doing business within the municipal corporate limits, an annual tax equal to one percent of the annual gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year from policies insuring persons residing within the corporate limits of the municipality.
(2)
The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall have the same meaning as that used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The tax levied by this subsection is in addition to any license fee imposed by this Code.
(b)
Rate of levy on all other insurers. There is hereby set and levied for the calendar year 1994, and for each calendar year thereafter, upon each insurance company not taxed under the provisions of the preceding subsection (a) of this section, and which is doing business within the municipal corporate limits, an annual tax equal to 2.5 percent of the annual gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year from policies insuring persons residing within the municipal corporate limits. The tax levied by this subsection is in addition to any license fee imposed by this Code.
(Code 2003, § 4-108)
State Law reference— Local tax on insurers, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1 et seq.
Sec. 24-3. - Business license tax on depository institutions.
There is hereby set and levied for 2004, and each calendar year thereafter, upon each depository financial institution having an office located within the City of Porterdale, a business license tax of 0.25 percent on the Georgia Gross Receipts, as defined and allocated in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-95.
(Code 2003, § 4-109)
State Law reference— Municipal business license tax on depository financial institutions, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
Secs. 24-4—24-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AD VALOREM TAXES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 24-25. - Appeal of assessment.
Any taxpayer may appeal from an ad valorem assessment by the county board of tax assessors to the county board of equalization as to matters of taxability, uniformity of assessment, and value. The taxpayer or the county board of tax assessors may appeal to the Newton County Superior Court from a decision of the county board of equalization. All such appeals shall be made in the manner provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-311.
(Code 2003, § 4-101(3))
Sec. 24-26. - When taxes due and payable.
(a)
Ad valorem taxes shall be payable in two installments with a single billing based on the current final tax digest as authorized by the state revenue commissioner for each year. Taxes shall be billed on July 1 of each year, or as soon as practical after the state revenue commissioner has issued an order authorizing the use of the current year's final tax digest for the collection of taxes or the issuance of an order from a judge of the superior court for the temporary collection of taxes, whichever date is later. The first installment on such taxes shall be one-half of the entire amount due for the year and shall become due 60 days from the date of billing. The second installment on the taxes shall be one-half of the entire amount due for the year and shall become due on December 20.
(b)
Each installment shall become delinquent on the day following its due date and, upon becoming delinquent, shall be subject to a penalty of ten percent. That part of the entire amount of a tax bill due which is unpaid after December 20 shall be subject to interest at the rate of one percent per month, from December 21 until paid.
(c)
Tax bills showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates, and information as to delinquency dates and penalties shall be sent to all taxpayers, but failure to send a tax bill shall not invalidate any tax.
(Code 2003, § 4-101(4); Ord. of 10-4-2010)
State Law reference— Payment of tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-24.
Sec. 24-27. - Failure to pay tax.
(a)
The city shall forthwith issue an execution against any person who has defaulted in the payment of any ad valorem tax to be paid. The execution thus issued shall be a lien on all the property of such person, both real and personal, and shall be placed in the hands of the city clerk/treasurer or other person responsible for collection by levy and sale. The city clerk/treasurer or other person authorized to collect the taxes due to the municipality may attach the property of the delinquent taxpayer on any ground provided by O.C.G.A. § 18-3-1 or on the ground that the taxpayer is liquidating his property in an effort to avoid payment of the tax. The city clerk may use garnishment to collect the tax pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 48, ch. 3, or may levy upon all property and rights to property belonging to the taxpayer not otherwise exempt, for the payment of the amount due, together with any interest on the amount, any penalty for nonpayment, and such further amount as shall be sufficient for the fees, costs, and expenses of the levy. Judicial sales shall be conducted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-2-55.
(b)
The finance officer or other person authorized to collect taxes shall enter on the execution the name of the person garnished and shall return the execution to the court. The subsequent proceedings on the garnishment shall be the same as on garnishments in cases when judgment has been obtained.
(Code 2003, § 4-101(5))
Secs. 24-28—24-57. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BLIGHTED PROPERTY

Sec. 24-58. - Short title.
This division shall be known as the "City of Porterdale Blighted Property Ordinance."
(Code 2003, § 4-117(1); Ord. of 5-22-2014)
Sec. 24-59. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Blighted property, blighted, or blight means any urbanized or developed property which:
(1)
Presents two or more of the following conditions:
a.
Uninhabitable, unsafe, or abandoned structure;
b.
Inadequate provisions for ventilation, light, air, or sanitation;
c.
An imminent harm to life or other property caused by fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, storm, or other natural catastrophe respecting which the governor has declared a state of emergency under the state law or has certified the need for disaster assistance under federal law; provided, however, this division shall not apply to property unless the relevant public agency has given notice in writing to the property owner regarding specific harm caused by the property and the owner has failed to take reasonable measures to remedy the harm;
d.
A site identified by the federal environmental protection agency as a superfund site pursuant to 42 USC 9601 et seq., or having environmental contamination to an extent that requires remedial investigation or a feasibility study;
e.
Repeated illegal activity on the individual property of which the property owner knew or should have known; or
f.
The maintenance of the property is below state, county, or municipal codes for at least one year after written notice of the code violation to its owner; and
(2)
Is conducive to ill health, transmission of disease, infant mortality, or crime in the immediate proximity of the property.
Property shall not be deemed blighted solely because of esthetic conditions.
Building inspector means a certified inspector possessing the requisite qualifications to determine minimal code compliance.
Community redevelopment means any activity, project, or service necessary or incidental to achieving the redevelopment or revitalization of a redevelopment area or portion thereof designated for redevelopment through an urban redevelopment plan or through local ordinances relating to the repair, closing, and demolition of buildings and structures unfit for human habitation.
Governing authority means the city council of the City of Porterdale, a Georgia Municipal Corporation.
Millage or millage rate means the levy, in mills, which is established by the governing authority for purposes of financing, in whole or in part, the levying jurisdiction's general fund expenses for the fiscal year.
Person means such individuals, partnership, corporations, business entities and associations which return real property for ad valorem taxation or who are chargeable by law for the taxes on the property.
Public officer means the city manager or such officer or employee of the city as designated by the city manager to perform the duties and responsibilities hereafter set forth in this division.
(Code 2003, § 4-117(3); Ord. of 5-22-2014)
Sec. 24-60. - Purpose.
(a)
The existence of real property which is maintained in a blighted condition increases the burden of the state and local government by increasing the need for government services, including, but not limited to, social services, public safety services, and code enforcement services. Rehabilitation of blighted property decreases this need for such government services.
(b)
In furtherance of its objective to eradicate conditions of slum and blight within the city, the city council has designated areas of the city where conditions of slum and blight are found or are likely to spread, as more particularly set out in the City of Porterdale Urban Redevelopment Plan, adopted January 26, 2012, by the City of Porterdale.
(c)
In recognition of the need for enhanced governmental services and in order to encourage private property owners to maintain their real property and the buildings, structures and improvement thereon in good condition and repair, and as an incentive to encourage community redevelopment, a community redevelopment tax incentive program is hereby established as authorized by Article IX, Section II, Paragraph VII(d) of the 1983 Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(Code 2003, § 4-117(2); Ord. of 5-22-2014)
Sec. 24-61. - Ad valorem tax increase on blighted property.
(a)
There is hereby levied on all real property within the city which has been officially identified as maintained in a blighted condition an increased ad valorem tax by applying a factor of seven to the millage rate applied to the property, so that such property shall be taxed at a higher millage rate generally applied in the municipality, or otherwise provided by general law; provided, however, real property on which there is situated a dwelling house which is being occupied as the primary residence of one or more persons shall not be subject to official identification as maintained in a blighted condition and shall not be subject to increased taxation.
(b)
Such increased ad valorem tax shall be applied and reflected in the first tax bill rendered following official designation of a real property as blighted.
(Code 2003, § 4-117(4); Ord. of 5-22-2014)
Sec. 24-62. - Identification of blighted property.
(a)
In order for a parcel of real property to be officially designated as maintained in a blighted condition and subject to increased taxation, the following steps must be completed:
(1)
An inspection must be performed on the parcel of property. In order for an inspection to be performed:
a.
A request may be made by the public officer or by at least five residents of the city for inspection of a parcel of property, said inspection to be based on the criteria as delineated in section 24-59; or
b.
The public officer may cause a survey of existing housing conditions to be performed, or may refer to any such survey conducted or finalized within the previous five years, to locate or identify any parcels which may be in a blighted condition and for which a full inspection should be conducted to determine if that parcel of property meets the criteria set out in section 24-59 for designation as being maintained in a blighted condition.
(2)
A written inspection report of the findings for any parcel of property inspected pursuant to subsection (1) of this section shall be prepared and submitted to the public officer. Where feasible, photographs of the conditions found to exist on the property on the date of inspection shall be made and supplement the inspection report. Where compliance with minimum construction, housing, occupancy, fire and life safety codes in effect within the city are in question, the inspection shall be conducted by a certified inspector possessing the requisite qualifications to determine minimal code compliance.
(3)
Following completion of the inspection report, the public officer shall make a determination, in writing, that a property is maintained in a blighted condition, as defined by section 24-59, and is subject to increased taxation.
(4)
The public officer shall cause a written notice of his determination that the real property at issue is being maintained in a blighted condition to be served upon the person shown on the most recent tax digest of Newton County, Georgia, as responsible for payment of ad valorem taxes assessed thereon; provided, however, where, through the existence of reasonable diligence, it becomes known to the public officer that real property has been sold or conveyed since publication of the most recent tax digest, written notice shall be given to the person known or reasonably believed to then own the property or be chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes thereon, at the best address available. Service in the manner set forth in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12 shall constitute sufficient notice to the property's owner or person chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes for purpose of this section, except that posting of the notice on the property will not be required.
(b)
The written notice given to the person chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes shall notify such person of the public officer's determination that the real property is being maintained in a blighted condition and shall advise such person of the hours and location at which the person may inspect and copy the public officer's determination and any supporting documentation. Persons notified that real property of which the person is chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes shall have 30 days from the receipt of notice in which to request a hearing before the city's municipal court. Written request for hearing shall be filed with the public officer and shall be date stamped upon receipt. Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the public officer shall notify the municipal court and the building inspector or person who performed the inspection and prepared the inspection report.
(c)
Within 30 days of the receipt of a request for hearing, the municipal court clerk shall set a date, time and location for the hearing and shall give at least ten business days notice to the person requesting the hearing, the public officer and the building inspector or person who performed the inspection and prepared the inspection report. Notice of scheduled hearings shall be published as a legal advertisement in the Covington News, or other designated legal organ in Newton County, Georgia, at least five days prior to the hearing. Hearings may be continued by the municipal court judge upon request of any party, for good cause.
(d)
At the hearing, the public officer shall have the burden of demonstrating by a preponderance of the evidence that the subject property is maintained in a blighted condition, as defined by this division. The municipal court judge shall cause a record of the evidence submitted at the hearing to be maintained. Upon hearing from the public officer and/or their witnesses and the person requesting the hearing and/or their witnesses, the judge of municipal court shall make a determination either affirming or reversing the determination of the public officer. The determination shall be in writing and copies thereof shall be served on the parties by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery. The determination by the court shall be deemed final. A copy of such determination shall also be served upon the tax commissioner of Newton County, Georgia, who shall include the increased tax on the next regular tax bill rendered on behalf of the city.
(e)
Persons aggrieved by the determination of the court affirming the determination of the public officer may petition the superior court of Newton County, Georgia, for a writ of certiorari within 30 days of issuance of the municipal court's written determination.
(Code 2003, § 4-117(5); Ord. of 5-22-2014)
Sec. 24-63. - Remediation or redevelopment.
(a)
A property owner or person who is chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes on real property which has been officially designated pursuant to this division as property maintained in a blighted condition may petition the public officer to lift the designation, upon proof of compliance with the following:
(1)
Completion of work required under a plan of remedial action or redevelopment approved by the city's project review team (as defined in Section 303 of the City of Porterdale Development Regulations) which addresses the conditions of blight found to exist on or within the property, including compliance with all applicable minimum codes; or
(2)
Completion of work required under a court order entered in a proceeding brought pursuant to chapter 14.
(b)
Before action on a petition to lift the designation, the public officer shall cause the property to be thoroughly inspected by a building inspector who, by written inspection report, shall certify that all requisite work has been performed to applicable code in a workmanlike manner, in accordance with the specifications of the plan of remedial action or redevelopment, or applicable court order. Upon finding required work to be satisfactorily performed, the public officer shall issue a written determination that the real property is no longer maintained in a blighted condition. Copies of this determination shall be served upon the person chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes, and upon the tax commissioner of Newton County, Georgia.
(c)
All plans for remedial action or redevelopment shall be in writing, signed by the person chargeable with the payment of ad valorem taxes on the real property and the city manager, and contain the following:
(1)
The plan shall be consistent with the city's comprehensive plan and all laws and ordinances governing the subject property, and shall conform to any urban redevelopment plan adopted for the area within which the property lies;
(2)
The plan shall set forth in reasonable detail the requirements for repair, closure, demolition, or restoration of existing structures, in accordance with minimal statewide codes; where structures are demolished, the plan shall include provisions for debris removal, stabilization and landscaping of the property;
(3)
On parcels of five acres or greater, the plan shall address the relationship to local objectives respecting land uses, improved traffic, public transportation, public utilities, recreational and community facilities, and other public improvements;
(4)
The plan shall contain verifiable funding sources which will be used to complete its requirements and show the feasibility thereof;
(5)
The plan shall contain a timetable for completion of required work; and
(6)
Any outstanding ad valorem taxes (state, school, county and city, including the increased tax pursuant to this chapter) and governmental liens due and payable on the property must be satisfied in full.
(Code 2003, § 4-117(6); Ord. of 5-22-2014)
Sec. 24-64. - Decrease of tax rate.
(a)
Real property which has had its designation as maintained in a blighted condition removed by the public officer, as provided in section 24-62, identification of blighted property, shall be eligible for a decrease in the rate of city ad valorem taxation by applying a factor of 0.5 to the city millage rate applied to the property, so that such property shall be taxed at a lower millage rate than the millage rate generally applied in the municipality or otherwise provided by general law; such decreased rate of taxation shall be applied beginning with the next tax bill rendered following removal of official designation of a real property as blighted. The decreased rate of taxation may be given in successive years, depending on the amount of cost expended by the person chargeable with payment of ad valorem taxes on the property to satisfy its remediation or redevelopment, with every $25,000.00 or portion thereof equaling one year of tax reduction; provided, however, that no property shall be entitled to reduction in city ad valorem taxes for more than four successive years.
(b)
In order to claim entitlement for a decreased rate of taxation, the person chargeable with payment of ad valorem taxes on the property shall submit a notarized affidavit to the public officer, supported by receipts or other evidence of payment, of the amount expended.
(Code 2003, § 4-117(7); Ord. of 5-22-2014)
Sec. 24-65. - Notice to tax commissioner.
It shall be the duty of the public officer to notify the tax commissioner of Newton County, Georgia, in writing, as to designation or removal of designation of a specific property as maintained in a blighted condition. Such notice shall identify the specific property by street address and tax map, block and parcel number, as assigned by the Newton County Tax Assessor's Office. The public officer shall cooperate with the tax commissioner to ensure accurate tax billing of those properties subject to increased or reduced ad valorem taxation under this article.
(Code 2003, § 4-117(8); Ord. of 5-22-2014)
Secs. 24-66—24-88. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OCCUPATION TAX[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 24-89. - Construction of terms; definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax, which approximates the reasonable cost of handing and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business within a multiple line business that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2 but not a form I.R.S. 1099. An individual who performs work under the direction and supervision of one business or practitioner in accordance with the terms of a contract or agreement with another business which recruits such individual is an employee of the business or practitioner which issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2.
Location or office includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue raising purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation.
(1)
The term "practitioner of profession or occupation" means one who by state law requires licensure regulating such profession or occupation.
(2)
The term "practitioners of professions and occupations" shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permits fees or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power or as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(2))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
Sec. 24-90. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The occupation tax that only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26. All other applicable business and occupations are taxes by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and or local law and ordinance.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(11))
Sec. 24-91. - Occupation tax required.
Occupation tax required for business dealing with the city. For the year 1995 and succeeding years thereafter, each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation in Porterdale, Georgia, whether with a location in Porterdale, or no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business. If the taxpayer has a permanent business location in Porterdale, Georgia, such business tax registration shall be shown to the chief of police or to any police officer of said Porterdale, Georgia upon his request.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(1))
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-6, 48-13-7.
Sec. 24-92. - Administrative fee.
A non-prorated, non-refundable administrative fee in the amount established by resolution shall be required on all business occupation tax accounts for the initial start up, or re-opening of those accounts.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(3))
State Law reference— Administrative fee authorized, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10.
Sec. 24-93. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation tax is hereby levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more location or office in the unincorporated part of the country or within the corporate limits of Porterdale or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in Georgia pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner in the amount established by resolution.
(b)
The number of employees of the business or practitioner as computed on a full-time position basis or full-time position equivalent basis, provided that, for the purposes of this computation, an employee who works 40 hours or more weekly shall be considered a full-time employee and that the average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added and such sum shall be divided by 40 to produce full-time position equivalents.
(c)
The city shall not require an occupation tax from those real estate brokers, agents or companies whose offices are located outside the city and sell property inside the limits of the city.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(6))
State Law reference— Authorized criteria for taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10; taxation of real estate brokers, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-17.
Sec. 24-94. - Each line of businesses to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the city shall identify the dominant of business that the body conducts.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(7))
Sec. 24-95. - Number of business considered operating in the city.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separated business for the purpose of the tax required by this article.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(8))
Sec. 24-96. - Professionals as classified in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18).
Practitioners of professions shall pay an occupation tax in the amount established by resolution per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this subsection shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to the gross receipts of the business or practitioner. The per practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(9))
State Law reference— Taxation of professionals, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10.
Sec. 24-97. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for the government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state or a municipality or county of the state, shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that purpose.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(10))
Sec. 24-98. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purposes.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from said registration or tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 60 percent or more of the entire proceeds from said business are devoted to such purpose.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(13))
Sec. 24-99. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax is delinquent.
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year 1995, and succeeding calendar years thereafter, unless specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable within 30 days following January 1 of each year and shall be delinquent if not paid within such time, in which case there shall be a ten percent penalty imposed. On any new profession trade or calling begun in Porterdale the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained within 30 days following the commencement of business and a ten percent penalty imposed. The tax registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city clerk/treasurer and if any person, firm or corporation whose duty is to obtain a registration shall, after said registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in Porterdale, any of the kind of profession, trade or calling in this article specified without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall, upon the conviction of the municipal judge, be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, either or both in the discretion of the municipal judge.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(12))
State Law reference— Due date, penalties and interest, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-20, 48-13-21; limitation on criminal penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 24-100. - Evidence of state registration required, if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the Secretary of State pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(14))
Sec. 24-101. - Evidence of qualification required, if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before, the issuance of a city business registration, show evidence of such qualification.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(15))
Sec. 24-102. - Registration required; when registration and tax due and payable.
(a)
Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain. All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for said business described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in Porterdale after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting or offering to transact in, Porterdale, any kinds of business, trade, profession or occupation without first having so obtained said registration, shall be subject to penalties provided thereof.
(b)
When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(1)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all tax and fees as provided herein within 30 days of January 1 of each year. Every person commencing such business after January 1 shall apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all taxes and fees within 30 days following the commencement of business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in Porterdale any business, trade, profession or occupation without first having obtained said registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in section 24-99. Said penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal herein provided, and may be collected be the remedies herein provided for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(2)
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city clerk/treasurer and if any person, firm or corporation whose duty is to obtain a registration shall, after said occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in Porterdale, any of the kind of business, trade, profession or occupation without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided thereof.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(16), (17))
Sec. 24-103. - Penalties.
(a)
Penalty of article violation. Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisoned not exceeding 60 days, either or both in the discretion of the municipal judge.
(b)
Tax registration to be revoked for failure to pay tax, file returns. Upon the failure of any business to pay such occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, any business tax registration granted by Porterdale under this article permitting the owner of said business to do business in the city for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the city for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct its business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(c)
Effect of failure to comply with article provisions; continuing in business after tax registration revocation. Any person, their managers, agents or employees, who do business in said Porterdale after the registration for said business has been revoked as above the subject to penalties provided herein.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(18), (20), (21))
State Law reference— Limitation on criminal penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 24-104. - Regulatory fee.
(a)
A regulatory fee will be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on those applicable businesses. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee.
(b)
The regulatory fee schedule for persons in occupations and professions is as established by resolution.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(4), (5))
State Law reference— Regulatory fees, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-8, 48-13-9.
Sec. 24-105. - Enforcement of provision.
It is hereby made the duty of the police department to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed; and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the recorder's court. It is hereby made the further duty of the chief of police, and his officers, to inspect all registrations issued by Porterdale, as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the registration held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(24))
Sec. 24-106. - Applications of provisions to prior ordinance.
This article does not repeal or affect the force of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore and hereinafter passed for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in said ordinance or ordinances, or failure to comply with any provisions hereof, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(23))
Sec. 24-107. - Provisions to remain in full force and effect until changed by city council.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the city council. All provisions hereto relating to any form of tax herein levied shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Code 2003, § 4-115(25))
Secs. 24-108—24-127. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - HOTEL AND MOTEL EXCISE TAX[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Local excise tax on rooms, lodging and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 24-128. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged, or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, public club, or private club, containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. The term "hotel" does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium orphanage, prison, detention center, or other building in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use of possession of any room or apartment in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or posses any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license, or use, or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in this city, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel for at least ten consecutive days.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, the State of Georgia, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
(Code 2003, § 4-110(1))
Sec. 24-129. - Purpose.
Excise taxes collected by the municipality shall be used for the purposes of promoting, attracting, stimulating, and developing conventions and tourism in the counties and municipalities and for the provision of other local government services.
(Code 2003, § 4-110(2))
Sec. 24-130. - Rate of levy.
(a)
There is hereby set and levied on each occupant of a guest room of any hotel located within the corporate limits of this municipality a tax in amount of six percent of the rent for such occupancy. The tax herein imposed shall be paid upon any occupancy occurring on or after January 2004, unless such occupancy is had pursuant to a contract, lease, or other agreement entered into prior to such date.
(b)
No tax shall be levied as provided in this article upon the fees or charges for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of more than ten consecutive days or for use as meeting rooms. No tax shall be levied as provided in this article upon the fees or charges for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by state or local government officials or employees when traveling on official business. Except as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51, no tax levied pursuant to this article shall be levied or collected at a rate exceeding three percent of the charge to the public for the furnishings.
(c)
The tax shall not apply to charges made for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided to any persons who certify that they are staying in such room, lodging, or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty.
(Code 2003, § 4-110(3))
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51.
Sec. 24-131. - Exemption.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no tax shall be imposed hereunder upon a permanent resident.
(Code 2003, § 4-110(5))
Sec. 24-132. - Registration of operator.
(a)
Every person engaging in or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in this city shall immediately register said business with the city clerk/treasurer, on a form provided by the city clerk/treasurer for such purpose. Persons engaged in such business must register no later than 30 days after the date this article becomes effective; but such grace period for registration after the effective date of the tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of such tax on and after the date of imposition thereof. The required registration hereunder shall set forth the name which the operator transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place of business, and such other information as would facilitate the collection of the tax by the city clerk/treasurer. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; by a member or partner in case of ownership by association or partnership; or by an officer in the case of ownership by a corporation.
(b)
A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator.
(Code 2003, § 4-110(6))
Sec. 24-133. - Certificate of taxing authority.
Upon the registration of an operator as herein provided, the city clerk/treasurer shall issue to such operator without charge a certificate of authority to collect the tax on occupants. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it relates.
(Code 2003, § 4-110(7))
Sec. 24-134. - Determination if no return made.
If any hotel operator fails to file a return as required under the provisions of this article, the city clerk/treasurer shall make an estimate of the amount of gross rentals of such operator for the period in which the operator failed to file the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the city clerk/treasurer.
(1)
Notice of determination. The city clerk/treasurer or his designated representative shall give to the hotel operator written notice of his determination as herein provided. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the city clerk/treasurer. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(2)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination made hereunder shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned until the date of payment.
(Code 2003, § 4-110(10))
Sec. 24-135. - Administration and enforcement.
The city clerk/treasurer shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax herein imposed and, in so doing, shall have the following powers:
(1)
To examine, or authorize the examination of, the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, and other facilities of and operator renting guest rooms to persons subject to the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or, if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid;
(2)
To require the filing of reports by any person having in his possession or custody information relating to rentals of guest rooms which are subject to the tax herein levied; and
(3)
To allow a credit on any amount due and payable from persons who paid the tax herein levied but were erroneously or illegally subjected thereto.
(Code 2003, § 4-110(12))
Sec. 24-136. - Penalties.
Any operator or other person who fails to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the city clerk/treasurer, or who renders a false or fraudulent return, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Code 2003, § 4-110(15))
