ARTICLE II - GOVERNING AUTHORITY

Section 2.1 - Form of government.
The government of the city shall be vested in a city council, constituted and elected as provided in this charter.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.1)
Section 2.2 - Composition.
The governing authority of the city shall be the city council, composed of a mayor and seven (7) councilmen, in which is vested all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this charter.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.2)
Section 2.3 - Qualifications of mayor and councilmen.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman, elected or appointed, a person shall be at least 21 years of age and shall meet the requirements of a qualified voter of the city, as prescribed by state law, shall not be ineligible for public office pursuant to code section 45-2-1 of the O.C.G.A., and, if a councilman, shall be a bona fide resident of the ward from which he seeks election for the same period of time required by code section 45-2-1 of the O.C.G.A. for residency of municipal officers within the city. The mayor and each councilman shall continue to reside within the city or ward from which elected, respectively, during their terms of office. No person shall be eligible to be mayor or councilman who shall have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, unless such person's civil rights have been restored.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.3, as amended by Ord. No. 3700, 8/13/80; Ord. No. 3724, 11/20/80; Ga. L. 1986, p. 5068; Ga. L. 1989, p. 4583, Sec. 1)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 3700, 8/13/80, amended the above section by home rule ordinance to provide that council members be residents of the wards they represent. Ord. No. 3724, 11/12/80 lowered the age qualification from 21 to 18 years of age. The age was subsequently raised to 21 by Ga. L. 1986, p. 5068. HB 847 (1989) changed the residency requirement from one year to the same as established by state law.
Section 2.4 - Election; terms of office.
The present mayor and council members of the city shall continue in office during the terms for which they were elected through December 31, 2017 at 11:59 p.m., and on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November, 2017, and, except as provided hereafter, every four years on said day thereafter an election shall be held in said city for a mayor and seven council members.
Except as provided hereafter, the mayor and the council members shall serve for terms of four years and until their term ends and their respective successors are elected and qualified. Terms of office shall begin on the first day of January immediately following the date of election to office for all persons elected at regular elections (or runoff[s] to regular elections) and end on December 31 at 11:59 p.m. of the fourth year of the term. Once elected, the newly elected members for four-year terms may take the oath of office in December of the year in which they are elected, but shall not take office until January 1 as stated above.
Commencing with the election after the start of the term of council beginning January 1, 2026, and thereafter, no council member elected or qualified for three consecutive terms shall be eligible for the next succeeding term based upon previous elective service after January 1, 2018.
Commencing with the election after the start of the term of council beginning January 1, 2026 and thereafter, no mayor elected or qualified for three consecutive terms shall be eligible for the next succeeding term based upon previous elective service after January 1, 2018. The limitation of three consecutive terms shall not overlap or run concurrent between being a council member position and a mayor as the term limit period is to the particular elected position and are not to be combined.
No candidate shall be nominated for the office of council member or mayor or elected to any such office in any election unless the candidate shall have received a majority of the votes cast to fill such nomination or office.
Certificates of election shall be recorded by the city clerk upon the book of minutes or other book kept for such purposes. The record aforesaid shall be evidence of the result of the said election and the authority of those elected to act.
The mayor shall be elected by the voters of the entire city and each council member by the voters of the ward in which he or she offers as a candidate, and this shall apply to all general and special elections. In order to be elected as a council member from a ward, a candidate must receive a majority of the votes either in a special election or in the regular election in such ward. In the event no candidate receives the majority of the votes, a run-off election shall be held between the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes. Such run-off election shall be held two weeks from the date of the regular election or a special election as the case may be.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.4, as amended by Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 7967, 6/14/2017, Sec. 2; Ord. No. 7973, 7/12/2017, Sec. 2)
Amendment note—The date of city elections was changed in the first paragraph above by the 1982 Act.
Editor's note—Ord. No. 4685, adopted Dec. 29, 1988, Sec. 1, provided for the preservation of the commencing of the term of office of the elected mayor and council as provided in the city charter Section 2.4, second paragraph). It should be noted that such ordinance section incorporates the term "council members" rather than "councilmen" as set out in the charter. Such ordinance is recorded at Ga. L. 1989, p. 5381.
Section 2.5 - Holding other office, voting when personally interested.
Except as authorized by law, neither the mayor nor any councilman shall hold any city employment for remuneration during the term for which he was elected.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.5)
Section 2.5A - Exceptions to holding other office.
Members of the governing authority of the city shall be authorized to be members of the Marietta Historic Board of Review, the pension board created by the city, the Downtown Marietta Development Authority, or any combination of such membership.
(Ga. L. 1994, p. 4265, Sec. 1)
Section 2.6 - Mayor.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city, and he shall have general supervision over all its affairs. He shall sign all deeds and contracts, preside at all meetings of the council and cast the deciding vote in case of a tie vote. It shall be his duty to see that the laws of the state and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed within the corporate limits; within the limitations prescribed in this charter, he shall see that each officer of the city discharges his duty, and cause any officer or employee to be prosecuted for neglect, or violation of duty, or immoral conduct. He shall keep the council advised from time to time of the general condition of the city, and shall recommend measures as he may deem necessary or expedient for the welfare thereof. He shall call the council together when so requested by a majority of the council or when it seems to him to be important to the welfare of the city.
In all instances where the official signature of the mayor is required, a facsimile signature of the mayor shall meet such requirement, if authorized by the mayor.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.6)
Section 2.7 - Mayor pro tem; presiding officer.
The mayor pro tem shall be appointed at the January meeting of each year for a term of one year from the councilmembers by the mayor with the consent of a majority of the councilmembers. The mayor pro tem shall be clothed with all rights, powers and duties of the mayor during the absence or disability of the latter officer, except that the mayor pro tem shall not have the authority to veto any item, but shall retain the right to vote as a member of the council while discharging the duties of the mayor. If there shall be a vacancy in the office of the mayor pro tem, the majority of the councilmembers may fill the same at any regular or special meeting of the council. In the event of the death or resignation of the mayor or his or her removal from office, the mayor pro tem shall discharge the duties of the mayor until the vacancy is filled as provided in this charter. If the mayor should not appoint, with the consent of council, a mayor pro tem by January 31 of each year, the council may select the mayor pro tem by majority vote of the councilmembers. The mayor pro tem shall be paid, in addition to his or her standard council salary, a salary of $125.00 per month. The mayor shall also appoint a presiding officer with the consent of a majority of the councilmembers, and such presiding officer shall serve in the absence of the mayor and the mayor pro tem. The presiding officer shall have the same duties, authority, and term as the mayor pro tem, but shall receive no additional salary for such appointment.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.7, as amended by Ord. No. 3599, 6/13/79, Sec. 1; Ga. L. 1982, p. 4561, Sec. 2; Ga. L. 1989, p. 4583, Sec. 2; Ord. No. 4728, 9/13/89; Ga. L. 1994, p. 4265, Sec. 2; Ord. No. 7917, 7/13/2016, Sec. 3; Ord. No. 7918, 8/10/2016, Sec. 3; Act No. 147, HB 577, Sec. 1, 5/4/2017)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 3599, 6/13/79, and Ord. No. 4728, 9/13/89, were enacted under the city's home rule powers; each ordinance struck the former wording of the section in its entirety. The time for selection of the mayor pro tem was changed from December to January by the 1982 Act. The 1989 Act added the provision for compensation to the above section. Ord. No. 4728, 9/13/89, is recorded at Ga. L. 1990, p. 5492.
Ord. No. 7918, Sec. 3, adopted Aug. 10, 2016, is effective upon the sitting of the term of council January 2018.
Section 2.8 - Organization meeting; official oath.
The council shall meet for organization in January following their election prior to each year's January board of lights and waterworks meeting at a special council meeting called by the mayor. The meeting shall be for the purposes of, but not limited to, the annual appointments of mayor pro tem, members of the board of lights and waterworks, committees with chairs and vice chairs, city attorney, city clerk, municipal court judges, and prosecuting attorneys. The oath of office as administered to the councilmembers and mayor shall be as follows: "I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of the city and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America, as well as any other oath required by O.C.G.A. Section 45-3-1, et seq." A member shall take the oath of office prior to January 1 of the year of election. At the discretion of any individual councilmember, a councilmember may have the words "So Help Me God" added to that member's individual oath of office.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.8; Act No. 147, HB 577, Sec. 2, 5/4/2017)
Section 2.9 - Meetings, regular and special.
(a)
The council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance, provided, until so changed, regular meetings shall be on the second Wednesday of each month. The council may recess any regular meeting and continue such meetings on any day or hour it may fix, and may transact any business at such continued meeting as may be transacted at any regular meeting.
(b)
Special meetings of the council may be held on call of the mayor or four (4) members of the council as prescribed by ordinance. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members present. With such consent any business which may be transacted in a regular meeting may be conducted at the special meeting.
(c)
The council shall hold a monthly Agenda Work Session on the Monday before the Regular Council Meeting unless changed as prescribed by ordinance. The Agenda Work Session shall be limited to the purpose of preparing, reviewing and amending the upcoming Council meeting agenda and Council is further authorized to discuss, but not take action on other items, if any, placed on the Work Session agenda except for a veto override to veto(es) occurring within the Work Session. The Agenda Work Session shall be held at least two days prior to the Regular Monthly Council Meeting.
(d)
The council shall hold a monthly Agenda Review Session One Hour preceding the Regular Council Meeting. The Review Session shall be limited to the purpose of reviewing the Council meeting agenda and is further authorized to discuss, but not take action on other items, if any, placed on the Review Session agenda and executive session as requested.
(e)
The council may hold a special called Council Meeting Work Session the night or nights of the Council Committee meetings for the purpose of conducting executive session(s) and moving items forward from the executive session to the Regular Monthly Council Meeting including a veto override to veto(es) occurring within the Work Session. No other action shall be taken at such meeting.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.9; Res. No. 1487, 3/10/2010, § 1)
Section 2.10 - Rules of procedure; minutes.
The council shall adopt its rules of procedure by ordinance and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping official minutes of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.10)
Section 2.11 - Quorum; voting.
The mayor and four (4) councilmen, or in the absence of the mayor, the mayor pro tem and four (4) other councilmen, or in the absence of the mayor and mayor pro tem, the designated presiding officer and four (4) other councilmen, shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances by council members shall be taken by show of hands, electronic method or any other method approved by the city council and shall be recorded in the official minutes, but any member of the council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution or motion, except as otherwise provided in this charter.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.11; Ord. No. 6352, 1/9/2002, § 1)
Section 2.11A - Mayor's veto power.
(a)
Every ordinance adopted by the city council shall be presented promptly by the council to the mayor.
(b)
The mayor, within 10 calendar days of receipt of an ordinance, shall return it to the council with or without his approval, or with his disapproval. If the ordinance has been approved by the mayor, it shall become law upon its return to the council. If the ordinance is neither approved nor disapproved, it shall become law at 12:00 noon on the 10th calendar day after its adoption. If the ordinance is disapproved, the mayor shall submit to the city council a written statement of his reasons for his veto. The council shall record upon the ordinance the date of its delivery to and receipt from the mayor.
(c)
Ordinances vetoed by the mayor shall be considered by the council at its next meeting and should the city council then or at its next general meeting adopt the ordinance by an affirmative vote of five (5) members, it shall become law.
(d)
The mayor may disapprove or reduce any item or items of appropriation in any ordinance. The approved part or parts of any ordinance making appropriations shall become law, and the part or parts disapproved shall not become law unless subsequently passed by the city council over the mayor's veto by the affirmative vote of five (5) members. The reduced part or parts shall be presented to city council as though disapproved and shall become law unless overridden by the council by the affirmative vote of five (5) members.
(e)
Every action of the city council which is taken by vote of the city council other than the enactment of an ordinance shall be subject to disapproval by the mayor. Any such action shall become effective unless it is disapproved by the mayor at the meeting at which the vote is taken; and if such an action is so disapproved by the mayor it shall thereafter become effective only if the five (5) members of the city council affirmatively vote at the same or the next meeting of the city council to take such action over the disapproval of the mayor.
(Ga. L. 1983, p. 4119)
Section 2.12 - Salaries; reimbursement of expenses.
The salaries of the mayor and each councilman shall be as prescribed by ordinance, subject to any limitations on the taking effect of same as prescribed by law.
The council may also provide by ordinance for the reimbursement of expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties as mayor and council members.
Until changed by ordinance, the mayor shall be paid a salary of $25,200 per year, payable in equal monthly installments of $2,100 for attending council and committee meetings, plus $160 monthly for expenses. Until changed by ordinance, all other members of the council shall receive a salary of $18,900 per year, payable in equal monthly installments of $1,575 plus $150 monthly for expenses. In addition to the amounts described in this paragraph, each member of the council shall receive reasonable expenses and expenditures for travel without the corporate limits of the City of Marietta on business beneficial to the City. Such payments shall be made as follows:
a)
Payment for registration in any conference, seminar, gathering, or other meeting beneficial to the interest of the city; and
b)
Costs for lodging either in the form of direct payment by the city to the establishment furnishing such lodging, or as a cash advance to the member of the council for the purpose of lodging; and
c)
Costs for transportation to and from the conference, seminar, gathering, meeting or other travel without the city, provided however, should any member of the council utilize his or her personal vehicle as transportation, such member shall be entitled to payment at the prevailing IRS Standard Mileage Rate for travel by the most direct route to and from the city; and
d)
A per diem pursuant to the IRS per diem rates as published. Each member of the council shall have a specific amount included in the budget of the City of Marietta for travel purposes for the entire fiscal year, and no amount shall be paid in excess of the budgeted amount.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.12; as amended by Ga. L. 1978, p. 3782, Sec. 1; and Ord. No. 3399, 6/14/78, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 4068, 8/8/84; Ord. No. 4156, 5/8/85; Ord. No. 4794, 6/13/90, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 5292, 4/13/94, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 6793, 4/13/05, Sec. 1; Ord. No. 7917, 7/13/2016,Sec. 2; Ord. No. 7918, 8/10/2016, Sec. 2)
Amendment note—Mileage and per diem were increased and Subsec. (e) was added in the above section by Ord. No. 4068, 8/8/84. The language "incurred for and in behalf of the city for travel within the city," following the word "expenses" in the third paragraph pertaining to mayor and council was deleted by Ord. No. 4794, 6/13/90.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 7918, Sec. 2, adopted Aug. 10, 2016, is effective upon the sitting of the term of council January 2018.
Section 2.13 - Malfeasance in office; penalty.
In case the mayor or any member of the city council, while in office, shall be guilty of any willful neglect or malfeasance in, or abuse of said office, upon conviction thereof by a court of record, he shall be removed from office.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.13)
Section 2.14 - Vacancy in office on moving from city or ward; filling of vacancies.
If the mayor shall remove his permanent residence from the city or if any councilman shall remove his permanent residence from the ward from which he was elected, such removal shall automatically vacate the office he holds and said vacancy shall be filled as provided for in this charter; provided, however, that if the boundaries of any ward or wards are redrawn, the councilman from such ward may serve out the remainder of his term, regardless of his place of residence so long as he resides within the city. Permanent residence shall mean the place where such person actually lives, if he has an intent to remain there indefinitely.
In the event that an office on the city council shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the council or those remaining thereon shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office within 30 calendar days after such vacancy occurs. Only those registered voters residing in the ward or wards from which such council member was elected shall be entitled to vote in such special election. Provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within six (6) months of the expiration of the term of that office, the council or those remaining thereon shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term. In all other respects the special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 (Ga. Laws 1968, p. 885), as now or hereafter amended.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.14)
Section 2.15 - Appointment of officers.
The council, at its first meeting after election or as soon thereafter as is practicable, shall proceed to appoint a city clerk and a city attorney.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.15)
Section 2.16 - Powers of council enumerated; not deemed exclusive.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the city council, shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1)
General. To exercise all powers and authority provided in section 1.1 of this charter, and elsewhere in this charter.
(2)
Enactment of ordinances and the like. To make, ordain and establish such bylaws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof, and for preserving the health, peace, order and good government of the city.
(3)
Corporate limits. To fix, alter, and enlarge the corporate limits of the city, as provided by state law.
(4)
Elections. To provide the manner and time for city elections, as provided by state law.
(5)
Redefinition of ward boundaries. Should the governing authority, by resolution duly adopted, determine that it is necessary or desirable to redefine any one or all of the wards, it is hereby authorized and empowered to do so subject to applicable provisions of state and federal law.
(6)
Codification of ordinances. To edit, revise and codify the general and permanent ordinances of the city and cause such ordinances to be published as the code of ordinances, and to provide for amending and supplementing the same.
(7)
Emergency situations. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health or well-being of the citizens of the city.
(8)
Contracts and agreements for service. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations providing for services to be furnished and payments to be made therefor.
(9)
Intergovernmental cooperation. To cooperate with any department or agency of the state or federal government, or any political subdivision of the state, in making of public improvements and doing the things which contribute to the health, morals, comfort, and general welfare of the citizens of the city, and for this purpose may expend such public funds as are necessary to effectuate said purposes.
(10)
Personnel system, insurance, retirement. To approve a personnel system, retirement systems and insurance plans for officers and employees of the city, and to provide the methods of financing such systems and plans.
(11)
Property acquisition. To acquire, dispose of and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, within or outside the city.
(12)
Appropriations generally, expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government and governmental functions of the city, and the proprietary functions thereof, to authorize the expenditure of money for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the state, and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city.
(13)
Appropriations and borrowing for payment of debts; issuance of bonds. To appropriate and borrow money for payment of the debts of the city, and to issue revenue and general obligation bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the laws of the state.
(14)
Property tax levy and collections. To levy and to provide for the collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation; and to contract with any city, county or other governmental or political subdivision for any service in connection with the taxation process authorized by state law, including without limitation, the ministerial acts of billing and collection of city ad valorem taxes.
(15)
Exempting property from taxation. To exempt property from taxation.
State Law reference— Constitutional authority required in addition, Ga. Code Ann., Sec. 2-4604; Constitutional exemptions, Division 1, Sec. 5-201 et seq.
(16)
Back taxes. To provide for the collection of delinquent taxes and penalties thereon.
(17)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments.
(18)
License fees and taxes. To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions and to provide for the manner and method of payment of such license fees and taxes.
(19)
Permits and fees. To provide for the issuance of permits and for the revocation thereof, and to prescribe fees for the issuance thereof.
(20)
Purchases and sales. To prescribe regulations for purchases and sales by the city and to require competitive bidding on all major purchases, as defined by ordinance.
(21)
Improving public ways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon, or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light, streets, roads, alleys, sidewalks, walkways, and other public ways.
(22)
Control of public ways. To regulate and control public streets, roads, alleys, sidewalks, walkways and other public ways; and to prevent the blocking of streets, roads, alleys, sidewalks, walkways, and other public ways, and railroad crossings.
(23)
Public facilities and improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment facilities, quarries, airports, hospitals, and charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, communication, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities and any other public improvements, within and outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, or other applicable public acts, as are or may be enacted.
(24)
Schools. To provide for the appropriation of funds to the school system for the use of schools; provided, however, that the city shall not be liable for any obligation of the board of education or other such body of the school system unless expressly incurred.
(25)
Traffic regulations. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and other vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, sidewalks, walkways and other public ways of the city.
(26)
Vehicles for hire. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; and to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance.
(27)
Executions. To issue executions for the collection of any debt or claim due said city, arising by ordinance, or by contract, express or implied, by tort, or otherwise. Said executions may issue and be satisfied as provided in this charter relating to taxes or as otherwise authorized by law.
(28)
Filing claims against city. To provide for the filing of claims against the city and for the barring of such claims unless properly filed.
(29)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the city council, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia of 1933, or under other applicable public acts, as are or may be enacted.
(30)
Ownership, etc., of utilities generally. Subject to any limitations contained in this charter, to acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks and water supply, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works and gas supply, electric plants and electricity supply, transportation facilities, communications facilities, public airports, and any other public utility, within and outside the city, and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, and regulations for same, and penalties and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay for same or to abide by such regulations, and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced.
(31)
Sewer charges. Except as otherwise provided in this charter, to levy a fee, charge a sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewer system and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewer system a sewer service charge, fee or sewer tax for the use of the sewers and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same; and to charge, impose and collect sewer connection fees and to change the same from time to time; such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewer system.
(32)
Collection and disposal of garbage, refuse, recyclable materials. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to regulate the collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper and other recyclable materials and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper and other recyclable materials and to provide for the sale of such items; to take all necessary and proper means for keeping the city free from garbage, trash and filth; to levy, fix, assess, and collect garbage, refuse and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee, for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing within or without the city or doing business therein benefiting from such services, to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees, and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges.
(33)
CATV. Subject to any limitations contained in this charter, to acquire rights of way and easements for, purchase, construct, own, sell and dispose of, maintain, operate, extend and improve a cable television system, within and without the city, subject to the provisions of applicable state law, and to prescribe the charges, rates, fares, fees, regulations and standards and conditions of service to be provided, and to impose a lien against any property of the persons served, said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
(34)
Franchises. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, but not limited to those stated above, not to exceed periods of 30 years. The council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with laws of the state.
(35)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards for health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(36)
Pollution control. To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air, and to prevent the pollution of natural streams, ponds and other bodies of water within the city, as now or hereafter provided by state law.
(37)
Zoning, planning and subdivisions. To make, adopt, promulgate and from time to time amend, extend and add to regulations restricting height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of population, the location and use of buildings and other structures, and the uses, conditions of use or occupancy of land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, transportation, agriculture or other purposes; to provide for municipal land use planning, to provide for the regulation of subdivision land; and to establish setback lines for buildings and structures along the streets, lanes, avenues, and roads, including power and authority to divide the city into districts of such number, shape and area as may be deemed desirable, and within such districts to regulate and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings and structures, and the use, conditions of use or occupancy of land; and in that case to adopt official zoning regulations including a map or maps, indicating the districts, and the regulations in a district may differ from those in other districts: to create a municipal planning commission and to create a joint planning commission with the county or with other municipalities.
(38)
Fire limits, fire prevention and protection. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time extend, enlarge or restrict same, to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting, to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof, and to create and maintain a department of fire and emergency services.
(39)
Building construction and repair. To establish minimum standards for and to regulate the erection and construction and repair of buildings and other structures, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards; to adopt by reference building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas mechanical, and heating and air-conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing, building, and building trades, and to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures.
(40)
Dangerous structures. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may or might become dangerous or hazardous to the public.
(41)
Adoption of published codes and the like by reference. To adopt by reference any codes, publications or compilations of rules, regulations, specifications, standards, limitations, or requirements by any agency of the federal or state government or by a municipality, by a trade association or other organization generally recognized as an authority in its field of activity.
(42)
Signs and the like near public ways. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights of way of streets, roads, or other public ways, or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances.
(43)
Police power. To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental or likely to be detrimental to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city, within the city and on any property outside of the city and owned by the city; and to create and maintain a police department.
(44)
Animals and fowl. To regulate, license, tax or prohibit, the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment thereof for violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violations of ordinances enacted under this subsection.
(45)
Nuisances. To define a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement, whether on public or private property.
(46)
Alcoholic beverages. To regulate and control the manufacture, sale or transportation of alcoholic beverages, and license and tax the same.
(47)
Loitering, disorderly conduct, and the like. To adopt ordinances and regulations for the prevention of loitering, disorderly conduct and disturbing the peace in the city and to prohibit the playing of lotteries therein, and to prohibit or regulate by ordinance such other conduct or activity within the city which, while not constituting an offense against the laws of this state, is deemed by the governing authority to be detrimental and offensive to the peace and good order of the city or to the welfare of citizens thereof.
(48)
Peddlers, shows; taxation. To regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows, of any kind whatever by taxation or otherwise.
(49)
Dangerous or detrimental activities or conditions. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawnshops, the use and sale of firearms, and to regulate the transportation, storage and use of combustible, explosive and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous or detrimental to persons or property.
(50)
Penalty for violation of ordinances and regulations. To provide that upon the conviction of the violation of any ordinance, code, rule, regulation, or order, the offender may be punished within limitations prescribed by this charter and the laws of the state.
(51)
Arrest and bail. To provide for arrest and appearance bonds or bail of offenders against city ordinances or regulations; and to exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen.
(52)
Working prisoners. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court shall work out such sentences in any public works, or for the commitment of such persons to any correctional institution, by agreement with the appropriate governmental officials.
(53)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose.
(54)
Public housing. To provide for and operate public housing and to be or to designate an agency to be the public housing authority.
(55)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program, as now or hereafter provided by state law.
(56)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial, or as now or hereafter provided by state law.
(57)
Parks and recreation. To provide for the organization, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public parks, playgrounds and recreational facilities inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, and to regulate the use thereof; and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, or other applicable public acts, as are or may be enacted.
(58)
Parking facilities. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public parking facilities, and to regulate the use thereof; and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, or other applicable public acts as are or may be enacted.
(59)
Additional powers generally. To have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter; to exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by municipal governments under the constitution and other laws of the state. No enumeration of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the constitution or applicable public acts of the state.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.16, as amended by Ord. No. 4752, 11/8/89; Ord. No. 4756, 12/13/89, Sec. 1)
Amendment note—Ord. No. 4752 amended Subsec. (38) by substituting "department of fire and emergency services" for "fire department."
State Law References—Home rule powers, Ga. Code Ann., Secs. 36-34-1 to 36-37-6; Const. Ga., Art. 9, Sec. II, Part 11.
Section 2.17 - Liberal construction of powers.
The powers of the city shall be construed liberally and in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers in this charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power of the city as stated in this charter. It is the intention hereof to grant the city full power and right to exercise all governmental authority necessary for the effective operation and conduct of the city and all of its affairs.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.17)
Section 2.18 - Hearings by council and committees.
The city council and all committees of the council consisting of councilmen or councilmen and the mayor shall have the power to conduct hearings on any matters falling within the jurisdiction of said city council or any of the committees thereof, including the power to subpoena witnesses and the power of subpoena duces tecum upon reasonable notice of time and place of hearing as council may by rules and regulations prescribe.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.18)
Section 2.19 - Ordinance form.
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Marietta hereby ordains . . . " and every ordinance shall so begin.
(Ga. L. 1977, p. 3541, Sec. 2.19)
