CODE OF MARIETTA, GEORGIA 1996
____________
A Codification of the General Ordinances
of the City of Marietta, Georgia
____________
Republished in 1999
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF MARIETTA, GEORGIA
____________
R. Steve Tumlin, Jr.
Mayor
____________
Council Members

Cheryl Richardson, Ward 1
Griffin Lee Chalfant, Jr., Ward 2
Johnny Walker, Ward 3
G.A. (Andy) Morris, Ward 4
M. Carlyle Kent, Ward 5
Andre Sims, Ward 6
Joseph R. Goldstein, Ward 7
____________
William F. Bruton, Jr.
City Manager
____________
Douglas R. Haynie
City Attorney
____________
Stephanie Guy
City Clerk
PREFACE
This volume contains the City Charter, Related Laws and the Code of Ordiances of the City of Marietta, Georgia. The Code of Ordinances is an entirely new codification of all ordinances of a general and permanent nature. All obsolete, illegal, or superseded ordinances have been repealed as part of the codification. The Code has been adopted by the mayor and council through the enactment of a single ordinance and thus constitutes the general body of ordinance enactments of the city.
The Code includes several features that will facilitate its use. The various chapters and articles of the Code follow one another in a natural, logical order. The table of contents, with a complete outline of this order, will often provide sufficient reference points for the reader, in addition, the reader may consult the index at the end of the volume. At the beginning of each Part there is a section analysis of chapters and articles within the Part.
Non-textual provisions such as severability clauses, repeal, and enacting clauses are omitted from the text but are covered in Part 1 of this Code that applies to the entire Code of Ordinances. In most instances, references to "this ordinance" in the text of an ordinance have been changed to "this chapter" or "this article" as deemed appropriate. Various editorial notes such as state law references and cross references have been included throughout the Code to clarify its provisions.
This Code is designed to serve as a complete compilation of ordinances and as a reliable reference guide. The citations included at the end of sections refer to the official source and date of former code sections and original ordinances. Sections of the Code which do not have a citation represent new ordinances that have been added to fill gaps or to replace ordinances which have become outdated.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a part of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the part. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
RELATED LAWS RL:1
SPECIAL ACTS SA:1
CHARTER DISPOSITION TABLE CHTDT:1
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE RLCT:1
SPECIAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE SACT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up-to-date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
The 1996 codification was published by Book Publishing Company, Seattle, Washington. In February, 1999, Municipal Code Corporation, republished the Code of Marietta, Georgia and assumed supplementation.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Marietta, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Marietta, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Marietta, Georgia, 1999.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE
ADOPTING AND ENACTING a new Code for Marietta, Georgia; establishing the same; providing for the repeal of certain ordinances not included therein, except as herein expressly provided; providing for the manner of amending such code; providing when this ordinance shall become effective; providing certain penalties; and for other purposes.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MARIETTA, GEORGIA THAT: the document entitled the "Code of Marietta, Georgia" is hereby amended as follows:
Section 1: The document entitled the "Code of Marietta, Georgia," a copy whereof accompanies this ordinance and is incorporated herein and made a part hereof, is hereby adopted and shall be treated and considered as a new and original comprehensive ordinance.
Section 2: All ordinances and resolutions of a general and permanent nature of Marietta, Georgia, enacted on final passage on or before June 12, 1996, and not in the code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
Section 3: The repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution of the city promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or to the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city; nor shall this repeal affect any rights or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the city to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city; nor shall this repeal affect the present annual appropriation of the city, nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing charges, fees, or taxes now due or accrued; nor shall this repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or resolution or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4. The provisions appearing in the code, so far as they are the same as provisions of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of the effective date of this code are intended and shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Section 5. Any and all additions or amendments to the code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the city council to make the same a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the code so that reference to the "Code of Marietta, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
Section 6 A copy of the code shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk, and preserved in loose-leaf form, or in such other form as the city clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the city clerk or someone authorized by the city clerk, to insert in their designated places all amendments, ordinances or resolutions which indicate the intention of the city council to make those provisions a part of the code, when those provisions have been reprinted in page form, and to extract from the code all provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the city council. A copy of the code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine it and shall be considered the official Code of Marietta, Georgia.
Section 7 As pages of the code are replaced because the matter contained on them shall have been repealed, amended, or otherwise shall have been superseded or rendered obsolete or inoperative, the city clerk shall retain copies of the pages of the code so superseded, rendered obsolete or otherwise rendered inoperative in a file so that the former provisions of the code may be readily available and easily found. The purpose of this section is to permit anyone desiring to do so to ascertain the precise status of any sections of the code as of any given date.
Section 8 In case of the amendment of any section of the code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in the city charter of the code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed herein.
Section 9 It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of the code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code in any manner whatsoever which may cause the law of Marietta, Georgia to be misrepresented thereby.
Section 10 It is hereby declared to be the intention of this ordinance that its sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases are severable, and if any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, it shall not affect any of the remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this ordinance.
Section 11 All ordinance or part of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed.
Section 12: This ordinance shall become effective on June 12, 1996.
DATE: June 12, 1996
APPROVED:
/s/  _____
Ansley L. Meaders, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/  _____
Sheila R. Hill, CMC, City Clerk
Approved as to form:
/s/  _____
Douglas R. Haynie, City Attorney
