ARTICLE 4-4-12 - OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT

4-4-12-010 - Limitations and approval requirement.
A.
City employment shall be considered to be the primary employment of all full-time employees. No employee may engage in outside employment which will interfere with the interests of city service. Standards by which some employment is not acceptable include, but is not limited to:
1.
Illegal activity;
2.
Employment that by virtue of association will reflect upon the reputation of the city/BLW;
3.
High hazard or fatiguing work which might detract from or reduce city/BLW performance;
4.
Any work which requires inspection and/or approval for a city/BLW issued permit by the requesting employee's department.
B.
Prior to beginning any regularly scheduled outside employment, employees will obtain specific written approval from their department head or his designee on request forms which indicate the name of the outside employer, the nature of the work, hours of work, address and telephone number where the employee can be reached. Such information will become a part of the employee's official personnel record. Employees are required to obtain approval from their department head or his designee for any change in a previously approved outside employment request.
C.
Any employee accepting or engaging in outside employment under the terms of this rule shall make arrangements with the outside employer to be available to respond immediately to any emergency call of duty whenever the department head or his designee shall determine that the employee's services are necessary.
D.
Employees sustaining injuries while engaged in outside employment are normally ineligible to receive benefits under the city's worker's compensation program. If an employee sustains an injury while engaged in outside employment, but is performing duties within the scope of his city responsibilities (i.e., a police arrest), he may be eligible for partial city worker's compensation benefits.
E.
Failure to comply with the provisions of this section will result in disciplinary action.
(Code 1978, ยง 4-1071; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96)
