ARTICLE 4-4-20 - DISCIPLINARY ACTION POLICY AND PROCEDURE

4-4-20-010 - Goal and purpose.
A.
The goal of the city/BLW is to provide quality public services to the citizens and customers of the city/BLW. The establishment and maintenance of a cooperative and goal oriented work atmosphere is a responsibility of all employees and will go a long way toward eliminating serious disciplinary problems. If, however, disciplinary problems do arise, supervisors and department heads should make every effort to ensure that employees have a thorough understanding of city/BLW policies and an awareness of what is expected in job behavior and performance.
B.
The purpose of this policy is to provide a means to encourage employees to change their behavior through disciplinary action. The application of these guidelines must be consistent and equitable among all employees and departments so that employees receive like treatment for similar offenses.
(Code 1978, § 4-1121; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96)
4-4-20-020 - Definitions.
A.
Adverse Action. An adverse action is an action taken by the appointing authority or his designee that results in monetary loss due to disciplinary suspension without pay, disciplinary demotion or disciplinary dismissal.
B.
Conduct Undermining the Operations of the City/BLW. Any conduct or actions on the part of any employee which tends to jeopardize or reduce the efficient operation of the city/BLW in the delivery of services to the public, including the interference with the performance or duties of any other employee, through harassment or other methods, on or off the job.
C.
Delinquency. Vandalism; nonpayment of debts owed to the city; or absences or tardiness to work.
D.
Disciplinary Demotion. An employee may be demoted from one pay range (grade) to a lower range (grade) for disciplinary reasons. A disciplinary demotion will include a decrease in salary.
E.
Insubordination: The refusal by an employee to perform work assigned or comply with the written or verbal instructions of any supervisor who is entitled to give such direction and have it obeyed.
F.
Negligence. The failure to exercise reasonable and ordinary care under the circumstances.
G.
Sexual Harassment. See Article 4-4-18.
H.
Unauthorized Absence. An absence from work either not authorized by an employee's supervisor or not covered under the paid leave or leave of absence policies; see Article 4-4-16.
I.
Under the Influence of Alcohol. Under the influence of alcohol shall mean any measurable amount of alcohol as measured by blood, breath or urine tests while the employee is on duty or subject to be called back to duty in a paid stand-by status, unless such measurement of alcohol is the result of consumption of alcohol or an alcohol related product that is prescribed by a licensed physician. Employees will be subject for testing who have the smell of alcohol on their breath which is capable of being smelled by another, or visible impairment of their normal abilities. Departments may have requirements more restrictive than the above limitations (see Article 4-4-26).
J.
Under the Influence of Illegal Drugs (including the combination of drugs and alcohol). Under the influence of illegal drugs shall mean any measurable amount of illegal drugs as measured by blood or urine tests while the employee is on duty or subject to be called back to duty in a paid stand-by status. Departments may have requirements more restrictive than the above limitations (see Article 4-4-26).
K.
Legal Drug. Includes prescribed drugs and over-the-counter drugs which have been legally obtained and are being used solely for the purpose for which they were prescribed or manufactured (see Article 4-4-26).
L.
Illegal Drugs. Any drug:
1.
Which is not legally obtainable in the State of Georgia;
2.
Which may be legally obtainable but has not been legally obtained; or
3.
Which is being used in a manner or for a purpose other than as prescribed (see Article 4-4-26).
(Code 1978, § 4-1122; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96)
4-4-20-030 - Procedure.
A.
The procedure listed below is intended to assist supervisors and department heads in determining a proper course of action when discipline is needed. Any employee who violates any of the established personnel policies, a directives or operational, safety or departmental rules shall be disciplined depending on the severity and/or frequency of the violation.
B.
Severity can generally be interpreted in the following manner:
1.
Minor. Not a threat to the safety or well-being of persons (employees, citizens, customers), property or the organization.
2.
Serious. A threat to the safety or well-being of persons (employees, citizens, customers), property or the organization.
3.
Major. Matters that cannot be tolerated. (Example: Fighting on the job; sale of illegal drugs, etc.).
C.
The city/BLW will utilize a corrective or progressive system of discipline to encourage employees to change their behavior in matters that can be described a "minor" in severity level. However, matters described as "serious" or "major" will be handled on a case by case basis.
D.
Supervisory staff has the right and responsibility to correct employee behavior by recommending disciplinary action. The department head and/or their designee, subject to the appeal rights of regular employees, shall have the following alternatives for taking disciplinary action, again depending upon the severity and/or frequency of the incident or like occurrences:
1.
Verbal Reprimand. An employee may be called in for private counseling by his supervisor, division manager or department head regarding unacceptable behavioral patterns or work performance standards. The department head or designee should record the giving of such verbal reprimand by documenting on a notice of counseling form which shall indicate the date of the counseling session, subject matter, and remedial action to be taken and timeframe, if any. The employee should, but is not required to acknowledge receipt of the notice of counseling form by their signature. Signing of the notice of counseling form does not indicate agreement with the action taken and failure to sign does not negate the disciplinary action. The notice of counseling is a departmental record and does not need to be sent to the human resources department unless it is to support subsequent disciplinary action(s). Verbal reprimands can be neither grieved nor appealed.
2.
Written Reprimand. A written reprimand may be given to an employee by his department head or specified designee when:
a.
A verbal reprimand has not resulted in the desired improvement; or
b.
When the initial actions required greater discipline than a verbal warning.
An employee should, but is not required to, acknowledge receipt of all written disciplinary actions by their signature. Signing of the disciplinary action form does not indicate agreement with the action taken and failure to sign does not negate the disciplinary action. A copy of notice of written reprimand shall be filed in the employee's personnel file in the human resources department. All supporting documentation should be attached to the disciplinary action form. Written reprimands can be neither grieved nor appealed. However, the employee has the right to: a) discuss the written reprimand with the department head or specified designee and/or b) submit a written statement to be attached to the written reprimand and with any copy of such reprimand.
3.
Suspension Without Pay. Prior to a final decision regarding a suspension without pay, a regular status employee (who has successfully completed his work test period) will be given a hearing before the department head. Written notice of that hearing will be submitted to the employee by the department head or their designee at least 24 hours before the time of the hearing. Notice shall be hand delivered to the employee or personally delivered to the employee's home, leaving it with the employee or with a person of suitable age and discretion residing therein. If the employee cannot, after due diligence, be located, notice shall be sent by regular and certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice will specifically state the alleged grounds for which the suspension without pay is being considered, including a summary of the incident(s) from which the proposed disciplinary action arose. The employee will then have an opportunity at the hearing to explain, rebut or otherwise respond to the information upon which the proposed action is being taken.
A department head may suspend an employee without pay for up to 56 hours for fire personnel and 40 hours for all other personnel. A department head may suspend an employee without pay for periods exceeding 56 hours for fire personnel and 40 hours for all other personnel up to a maximum of 112 hours for fire personnel and 80 hours for all other personnel after informing the city manager and human resources director of the proposed disciplinary action. Failure to inform the city manager and human resources director shall not invalidate such disciplinary action.
4.
Administrative Leave With Pay. During the investigation, hearing, or trial of an employee on a criminal charge or during the course of a civil action involving an employee, when allowing the employee to continue to perform his regular duties would be, in the opinion of the department head and the human resources director, detrimental to the city's legitimate interests, the department head may authorize administrative leave with pay of the employee for the duration of the proceedings as a nondisciplinary action. The department head may also authorize administrative leave with pay for non-disciplinary reasons pending investigation by the city of a suspected disciplinary infraction.
5.
Demotion. Prior to a final decision to demote an employee, a regular status employee (who has successfully completed his work test period) will be given a hearing before the department head. Written notice of that hearing will be submitted to the employee by the department head or their designee at least 24 hours before the time of the hearing. Notice shall be hand delivered to the employee or personally delivered to the employee's home, leaving it with the employee or with a person of suitable age and discretion residing therein. If the employee cannot, after due diligence, be located, notice shall be sent by regular and certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice will specifically state the alleged grounds for which the demotion is being considered, including a summary of the incident(s) from which the proposed disciplinary action arose. The employee will then have an opportunity at the hearing to explain, rebut or otherwise respond to the information upon which the proposed action is being taken.
An employee who is unsatisfactory in his present position may be demoted for disciplinary reasons if, in the opinion of his department head or specified designee, he shows reasonable promise of becoming a satisfactory employee in another position. An employee who is demoted for disciplinary reasons shall be relieved of his present duties and responsibilities and assigned new duties and responsibilities which are less difficult and demanding and which will provide the employee a lower salary. This option is only available if a lower level authorized position is vacant or is created by the authorization of the city manager to downgrade an authorized position.
6.
Transfers that involve no reduction in salary or benefits do not constitute a demotion and can neither be grieved nor appealed, even if the transfer involves a change of duties, responsibilities and authority.
7.
Dismissal.
a.
A department head may dismiss an employee for cause after informing the city manager and human resources director of the proposed disciplinary action. Failure to inform the city manager and human resources director shall not invalidate the dismissal. The human resources director shall serve as expert advisor to the department head regarding all dismissal actions. Prior to a final decision regarding dismissal, a regular status employee (who has successfully completed his work test period) will be given a hearing before the department head. Written notice of that hearing will be submitted to the employee by the department head or their designee at least 24 hours before the time of the hearing. Notice shall be hand delivered to the employee or personally delivered to the employee's home, leaving it with the employee or with a person of suitable age and discretion residing therein. If the employee cannot, after due diligence, be located, notice shall be sent by regular and certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice will specifically state the alleged grounds for which termination is being considered, including a summary of the incident(s) from which the proposed dismissal action arose. The employee will then have an opportunity at the hearing to explain, rebut or otherwise respond to the information upon which the proposed action is being taken.
b.
If discharge action is taken subsequent to the departmental hearing, the employee shall be furnished notice of the discharge in writing stating the reasons and his rights to appeal the dismissal, if applicable. The notice and attachments become a permanent record unless modified by appeal action.
c.
Employees classified, as department heads who are employed in that capacity after February 9, 1994 are at-will employees of the city/BLW. However, any police chief and fire chief are exempted from these provisions and will be hired and may be terminated in compliance with the City Charter Section 4-12-1. Any other such department head may be discharged at any time within the discretion of the city manager, with or without cause. Prior to discharging a department head without cause or for cause deemed by the city manager to be beyond the department heads control as defined below, the city manager shall advise the city council in executive session of this intent; provided, that his omission to do so shall not affect the effectiveness of the discharge.
d.
Upon his discharge, a department head hired after February 9, 1994, may be eligible for severance benefits as follows: (1) severance pay equal to an amount up to four times his most recent gross weekly salary, the amount of which is dependent upon whether or not such executive finds other employment within four weeks after the effective date of the discharge; and (2) continued participation in the city/BLW health insurance program at full predischarge levels at the expense of the city/BLW for a period up to four weeks from the date of separation, or until covered by another health insurance program, whichever occurs first. To qualify for these severance benefits, an otherwise eligible executive, as defined below, shall, in writing and in a form approved by the city attorney, release the city/BLW and its elected and appointed officials, officers and employees in both their official capacity and personally, from any and all claims relating to his employment or the termination thereof, and shall likewise relinquish rights to a grievance/appeal hearing as provided herein.
e.
Only a department head hired after February 9, 1994, is eligible for the above described severance benefits if and only if he is discharged without cause or for cause deemed by the city manager within his discretion to be beyond the department head's control (for example—reductions in force; elimination of a department; inability to perform job requirements at acceptable levels despite consistent demonstrable attempts to do so, etc.). Additionally, an eligible department head, upon being notified by the city manager that discharge is imminent, may choose instead to resign his employment voluntarily without loss of eligibility for severance benefits. A department head hired after February 9, 1994, who is discharged for cause as set forth in subparagraphs 1. through 24. of Section 4-4-20-040 of this chapter or other provisions of these rules and regulations or for any cause deemed by the city manager within his discretion to be contrary to the interests of the city/BLW shall not be eligible for severance benefits.
E.
At each level up to discharge action, employees will be warned that failure to correct their behavior, will result in specific, more severe disciplinary action.
F.
Notification of Disciplinary Suspension, Demotion or Dismissal. When an employee is suspended, demoted or dismissed by his department head, the department head shall immediately provide the employee with written notice of the action taken, the effective date, the reasons for the action and the recourse available to the employee under the provisions of these rules and regulations. A copy of such notice shall be furnished to the human resources director with copies of all supporting documentation.
(Code 1978, § 4-1123; Ord. No. 5140, 3/10/93, §§ 1, 2; Ord. No. 5262, 2/9/94; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96; Ord. No. 7028, 4/11/2007, § 10; Ord. No. 7191, 6/11/2008, §§ 1, 8)
4-4-20-040 - Reasons for disciplinary action.
Please note that the following listing is not exhaustive and certain actions or inactions may warrant disciplinary action under a given set of circumstances.
A.
Plea or conviction of any felony or any misdemeanor that is related to the duties of the employee or the entry of a plea of nolo contendere to either.
B.
Excessive tardiness or absenteeism as defined by the policy herein. Unauthorized absence from work for a period of three consecutive work days, or for periods greater than 36 hours for fire personnel on a 24-hour shift, shall be considered job abandonment.
C.
Abuse of any leave policy including vacation, sick, compensatory, military, holiday or leave of absence without pay.
D.
Absent without permission or the failure to work assigned hours, including required overtime or emergency work.
E.
Inefficiency, negligence, or incompetence in the performance of duties.
F.
Careless, negligent or improper use of city/BLW property or equipment and/or other organizations' property or equipment utilized by city/BLW employees in the performance of assigned tasks.
G.
Theft or conversion of city/BLW or employee property, materials, or equipment. Theft or conversion of a citizen's property occurring on city/BLW worksites or on city/BLW time.
H.
Willfully giving false statements to supervisors, department heads or the public including falsification of city/BLW records.
I.
Gross discourtesy to coworkers, supervisors, department heads, or the public up to and including threats of violence, violent acts and fighting, on city/BLW property or worksites.
J.
Harassment or discrimination based upon race, color, creed, age, sex, national origin or ancestry, personal beliefs or handicaps.
K.
Possession of, sale of, or being under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs when reporting for work or the use of such while on duty. Adulteration of any sample provided or disruption of any city/BLW authorized drug/alcohol testing process. Abuse of prescribed medication or the failure to inform appropriate supervisory authority of the use of prescribed medication that might adversely affect the employee's performance of assigned duties.
L.
Unauthorized possession of any explosive compound, firearm, or knife designed for the purpose of offense or defense in a city/BLW owned or operated building, vehicle, park or worksite.
M.
Performing work or activities of a personal nature on city/BLW time.
N.
Gambling during work hours or on city/BLW property.
O.
Unauthorized sleeping on the job; exception: Scheduled rest time for firefighters.
P.
Insubordination as evidenced by the refusal to perform work assigned or to comply with the written or verbal instructions of any supervisor who is entitled to give such direction and have it obeyed.
Q.
Instigation of, participation in, or leadership of strike, work stoppage, slow down or artificial restriction of productive work.
R.
Political activity, outside employment, or acceptance of gratuities, ownership interest or personal activity in conflict with the policies and restrictions set forth in other articles of the personnel rules and regulations.
S.
Refusal to submit to any medical or psychological or other examination or drug screening for the purpose of determining fitness to remain on the job.
T.
Failure to report accidents or injuries.
U.
Preventable accidents which result in injury to self, others or damage to city/BLW equipment or property and/or other organizations' property or equipment utilized by city/BLW employees in the performance of assigned tasks.
V.
Violation of city/BLW charter requirements, administrative directives, safety, operational or departmental rules and regulations.
W.
The loss of job requirements, such as the loss of a necessary license, which prevents the adequate performance of assigned duties.
X.
Failure to report deficient, inadequate or otherwise poor quality of work to the appropriate supervisory personnel.
Y.
Other activities which adversely affect the safety, welfare, efficiency or successful performance of city/BLW services.
Z.
Improper, offensive or inappropriate use of city/BLW computer hardware or software or communications systems and, specifically, abuse of the policies as outlined in Article 4-4-11, Computer and Communication System Usage.
(Code 1978, § 4-1124; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96; Ord. No. 5683, 4/9/97; Ord. No. 7028, 4/11/2007, § 11; Ord. No. 7191, 6/11/2008, § 9; Ord. No. 7207, 8/13/2008, § 1)
4-4-20-050 - Safety and departmental personnel rules.
The city manager, board manager, safety committee and all department heads may publish additional personnel or safety rules and regulations. The human resources director and the city manager shall review proposed personnel or safety rules and regulations. No such rules and regulations will be effective without approval by the city council. Approval by the city council shall carry the irrebuttable presumption that all required procedures have been followed and no rule or regulation shall be defective because the human resources director or the city manager have not reviewed them.
(Code 1978, § 4-1125; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96; Ord. No. 7191, 6/11/2008, § 1)
4-4-20-060 - Appeal rights.
A.
Any regular employee, except an employee classified as a department head who was hired after February 9, 1994, who has received disciplinary action after successfully completing his initial work test period shall have the right to appeal such action as provided in the applicable provisions of the grievance and appeals policy. However, any police chief and fire chief are exempted from these provisions and will be hired and may be terminated in compliance with the City Charter Section 4-12.1.
B.
Temporary, part-time and contractual employees do not have grievance, appeal or hearing rights.
(Code 1978, § 4-1126; Ord. No. 5262, 2/9/94; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96; Ord. No. 7191, 6/11/2008, § 10)
