ARTICLE 4-4-4 - EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

4-4-4-010 - Policy.
A.
It is the policy of the city/BLW to foster, maintain and promote equal employment opportunities. All applicants and employees of the city/BLW shall be assured of fair and equitable treatment in all aspects of personnel administration without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, and political affiliation. Discrimination on the basis of age, sex, physical or mental disabilities is prohibited except where specific age, sex, physical or mental requirements constitute a bona fide occupational qualification necessary for proper and efficient operations or where an attempt to accommodate such limitation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of a program or activity.
B.
It is the policy of the city/BLW to comply fully and completely with the provisions of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA) and other federal and state laws and regulations to the extent that these acts and regulations issued pursuant thereto apply to the city/BLW government. Nothing in this chapter or elsewhere in these rules and regulations shall be interpreted to impose any greater restriction or obligation on the city/BLW than is imposed by the above referenced laws and regulations.
(Code 1978, § 4-1011; Ord. No. 5134, 3/10/93, § 2; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96; Ord. No. 7024, 3/15/2007, § 3)
4-4-4-020 - Administration.
A.
The human resources director and the city manager shall regularly review the implementation of this policy and relevant practices to assure that equal employment opportunity is being actively observed through reasonable performance related job requirements and standards.
B.
The human resources director shall serve as the equal employment opportunity officer for the city/BLW.
(Code 1978, Sec. 4-1012; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96; Ord. No. 7191, 6/11/2008, § 1)
4-4-4-030 - Discrimination complaints.
A.
A discrimination complaint is defined as an allegation by an applicant for employment, an employee, or a former employee that the city/BLW has engaged in an improper practice by discrimination against the applicant, employee or former employee because of race, color, religion, national origin, political affiliation, age, sex, or physical or mental disabilities.
B.
A complaint of discrimination in violation of these regulations shall receive prompt treatment.
C.
Applicants and Former Employees. A discrimination complaint by an applicant for employment or a former employee shall be made in writing to the human resources director within ten calendar days after the applicant for employment or former employee knew or, in the exercise of due diligence, should have known of the conduct or acts upon which the complaint is based. Upon receiving such a complaint, the human resources director shall make an investigation in order to determine whether discrimination has occurred. The human resources director may terminate his investigation and dismiss the complaint if the complainant fails or refuses to cooperate in the investigation. If the human resources director finds that a preponderance of the evidence indicates that discrimination has occurred, he shall recommend to the city manager an appropriate remedy therefor. When possible, discrimination complaints made by applicants for employment or former employees shall be investigated and resolved within 30 calendar days of the date that the complaint is received.
D.
Employees. A discrimination complaint by an employee shall be considered a grievance and shall be received and treated in accordance with the grievance procedure described elsewhere in these regulations, including the time limits established by said grievance procedure.
E.
In all cases, if there is a finding that discrimination has occurred, the city manager shall take such disciplinary action against the person or persons responsible for the discrimination as may be appropriate under the circumstances.
(Code 1978, § 4-1013; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96; Ord. No. 7191, 6/11/2008, § 1)
