CHAPTER 1-8 - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS
ARTICLE 1-8-2 - CITY MANAGER

1-8-2-010 - Responsibility, generally.
The city manager shall devote his or her time and attention to the affairs of the city and shall be responsible to the council for the efficient administration of all the affairs of the city over which he or she has jurisdiction.
(Code 1978, ยง 1-3002; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96)
ARTICLE 1-8-4 - CITY CLERK

1-8-4-010 - City clerk, duties.
In addition to the duties of the city clerk under the city charter, the city clerk or employees in the office of the city clerk under his or her direction shall have the following duties:
A.
To be the custodian of the city seal and affix its impression on documents whenever required;
B.
To carefully preserve the codes, records and documents belonging to the city where are not assigned to the custody of some other office, and to maintain a proper index to all records and documents so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had;
C.
To co-sign, when necessary, disbursements and attest to the city manager's or mayor's signature on all contracts; and
D.
To perform any other duties as may be assigned to the city clerk by city council or the office of the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1978, ยง 1-3011; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96)
ARTICLE 1-8-6 - CITY ATTORNEY

1-8-6-010 - Powers and duties.
The city attorney or assistants under his or her direction, shall be the legal advisor and representative of the city and in that capacity shall:
A.
Advise the mayor, any council member or the city manager when thereto requested, upon all legal questions arising in the conduct of city business;
B.
Prepare or revise ordinances when so requested by the council or any committee thereof, and keep the code of ordinances of the city up-to-date and properly indexed;
C.
Give his or her official opinion upon any legal matter or question submitted by a majority vote of the council;
D.
Attend any council meetings upon request of any member in their entirety for the purpose of giving the council any legal advice requested by its members;
E.
Prepare for execution all contracts and instruments to which the city is a party when so requested and approve, as to form, all bonds and city contracts;
F.
Prepare, when authorized by the city manager, charges and complaints against, and appear in the municipal court in the prosecution of persons charged with a violation of this code or of any regulations and see to the full enforcement of all civil judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the city;
G.
Defend any and all suits and actions at law or equity brought against the city, unless otherwise directed by council;
H.
Prepare and file any civil suit or action at law or equity to secure or protect the city's best interest when so ordered by a resolution of the council;
I.
Make immediate report to the council of the outcome of any litigation in which the city has a direct interest;
J.
Keep complete and accurate records of the following, which records shall remain the property of the city:
1.
All suits in which the city had or has an interest, giving the names of the parties, the nature of the action, the disposition of the case or its status, if pending, and the briefs of counsel; and
2.
All written opinions prepared by the city attorney and all certificates or abstracts of titles furnished by the city attorney to the city, or any department or official thereof; and
K.
Render any other legal services as may be required by the city council;
L.
All files are and shall the property of the city upon termination of the contract and shall be turned over to the city or the next city attorney as directed by council.
(Code 1978, ยง 1-3021; Ord. No. 5575, 6/12/96)
