Chapter 24 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 24-1. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Disaster means any natural, technological, civil emergency or threat thereof that causes or has the potential to cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in a declaration of a state of emergency declared by a county, the governor or the President of the United States.
Emergency means any natural or manmade event requiring the activation of the local emergency operations plan.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services [public safety]; medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; [nuclear power] plant protection; temporary restoration of public service utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions. (Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, as amended December 1992, Chapter 3, Article 1, 38-3-3.)
Local emergency management director means the person nominated by the local governments and appointed by the state emergency management director to implement the local emergency operations plan.
State emergency management director means the person appointed by the governor to head the Georgia Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. of 1-28-2010, § I)
Sec. 24-2. - Local organization for emergency management.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the Madison Emergency Management Agency. The chairperson of the Madison County Commissioners, with the concurrence of officials of the cities within the county, shall nominate, for appointment by the state emergency management director, a Director of the Madison County Emergency Management Agency. Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the executive officer or governing body and shall serve at the pleasure of such executive officer or governing body. When appointed, the local emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist local officials in organizing county departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the Madison County Emergency Operations Plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the Georgia Emergency Operations Plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of Madison County and the cities within the county for approval, and thence to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the Madison County Emergency Management Program, including the submission of required reports, to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governmental officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activities, etc.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the Madison County Emergency Operations Center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the Madison County Emergency Operating Staff during periods of emergency, and under the supervision of Madison County governing officials.
(Ord. of 1-28-2010, § II)
Sec. 24-3. - Madison County Emergency Management Agency.
The Madison County Emergency Management Agency shall be established around existing county and city departments. The emergency support functions, (ESFs) and department/agency assignments are as follows:
(Department/agency assignment listed below are examples only. It is the responsibility of local governments to make assignments based upon local capabilities.)
EXPAND
Emergency Support Function (ESF) Department/Agency*
1. TRANSPORTATION (P) County Road Dept(S) City Public Works
2. COMMUNICATIONS (P) County 911/Dispatch
(S) City Police Department
3. PUBLIC WORKS & ENGINEERING (P) County Road Dept
(S) City Public Works
4. FIREFIGHTING (P) County Fire Department
(S) City Fire Department
5. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (P) County Emergency Management Agency
(S) County/City Governments
6. MASS CARE, HOUSING & HUMAN SERVICES (P) County DFACS
(S) Red Cross Chapter
7. RESOURCE SUPPORT (P) County Emergency Management
(S) County/City Government
8. PUBLIC HEALTH & MEDICAL SER- (P) County Public Health
VICES (S) Local Hospital(s)
9. SEARCH and RESCUE (P) County Fire/Rescue
(S) City Fire/Rescue
10. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (P) County Fire Department
(S) City Fire Department
11. AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL (P) County Extension Agent
RESOURCES (S) County Emergency Management Agency
12. ENERGY (P) County Emergency Management Agency
(S) Local Utilities
13. PUBLIC SAFETY & SECURITY SERVICES (P) County Sheriff
(S) City Police Department
14. LONG TERM RECOVERY & MITI- (P) County Emergency Management Agency
GATION (S) County Government
15. EXTERNAL AFFAIRS (P) County Government (PIO)
(S) City Government (PIO)
  (*As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.)
Heads of county departments listed above are responsible for developing appropriate annexes and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to the emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes and/or SOPs will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Ord. of 1-28-2010, § III)
Sec. 24-4. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster or any other emergency which may effect the lives and property of the citizens of Madison County, the Chairperson of the Madison County Commissioners separately, or jointly with the Mayor of Carlton, Colbert, Comer, Danielsville, Hull and Ila City(ies), or in their absence their legally appointed successors may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such periods as such emergency or disaster continues, the following powers:
(1)
To appropriate and expend funds, execute contracts, and to obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes;
(2)
To provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to the victims of any emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes or enemy attack and to direct and coordinate the development of emergency management plans and programs in accordance with the policies and plans set by the federal and state emergency management agencies;
(3)
To appoint, employ, remove, or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers;
(4)
To establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts during an emergency or disaster;
(5)
Subject to the order of the governor or the chief executive of the political subdivision, to assign and make available for duty the employees, property, or equipment of the subdivision relating to firefighting, engineering, rescue, health, medical and related services, and to police, transportation, construction, and similar items or services for emergency management purposes, within or outside of the physical limits of the subdivision;
(6)
In addition to the heretofore stated powers and authorities, to acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease, or otherwise, sites required for installation of temporary housing units for disaster victims; and to enter into whatever arrangements, including purchase, of temporary housing units and payment of transportation charges, which are necessary to prepare or equip such sites to utilize the housing units. (O.C.G.A. ch. 3, art. 2, § 38-3-27)
(7)
Issue prohibitions on activities that do or may, in the chairperson's reasonable judgment, create danger to persons and/or property under the circumstances of the emergency or disaster, such prohibitions being enforceable as provided for county ordinances under section 1-9 of the Code of Madison County. Examples of prohibitions that may be issued by the chairperson include, without limitation, prohibitions on burning during times of fire danger and prohibitions on outdoor watering during times of drought.
(Ord. of 1-28-2010, § IV; Ord. of 11-28-2016(2) )
Sec. 24-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of Madison County, performing emergency functions pursuant to this resolution/ordinance [chapter], shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly-assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees. Immunity does not apply in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith. (O.C.G.A. ch. 3, art. 2, § 38-3-35.)
(Ord. of 1-28-2010, § V)
ESF MATRIX OF PRIMARY AND SUPPORT AGENCIES
EXPAND
Madison County ESF
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
AMERICAN RED CROSS S
CARLTON VOL FIRE DEPT S
CITY OF COMER POLICE DEPT S
CITY OF DANIELSVILLE POLICE DEPT S
CITY OF DANIELSVILLE PUBLIC WORKS S S S
COLBERT VOL FIRE DEPT S
COLLINS VOL FIRE DEPT S
COMER VOL FIRE DEPT S
City of Carlton
City of Colbert
City of Comer
City of Comer Public Works S S S
City of Danielsville
City of Hull
City of Ila
DANIESLVILLE COMMUNITY VOL FIRE DEPT S
HARRISON VOL FIRE DEPT S
HULL COMMUNITY VOL FIRE DEPT S
ILA VOL FIRE DEPT S
MADISON COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS S P S P S S
MADISON COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION P S
MADISON COUNTY CORONER S
MADISON COUNTY DFACS P S
MADISON COUNTY EMA S P S P P S P P
MADISON COUNTY EMS S
MADISON COUNTY FIREFIGHTER ASSOC. P S
MADISON COUNTY HEALTH DEPT P
MADISON COUNTY PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS P
MADISON COUNTY RESCUE S S
MADISON COUNTY ROAD DEPT S P
MADISON COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPT S S S P
Madison County Cooperative Extension Service P
NEESE/SANFORD VOL FIRE DEPT S
POCA VOL FIRE DEPT S
SHILOH COMMUNITY VOL FIRE DEPT S
USDA
  P = PRIMARY AGENCY:
Responsible for management of the ESF; Devise, coordinate, and implement disaster recovery plans for the ESF.
S = SUPPORT AGENCY:
Responsible to provide expertise, experience, and assts to the ESF as needed or requested by the primary agency.
ESFs:
1 = TRANSPORTATION
2 = COMMUNICATIONS
3 = PUBLIC WORKS/ENGINEERING
4 = FIREFIGHTING
5 = EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
6 = MASS CARE
7 = RESOURCE SUPPORT
8 = PUBLIC HEALTH/MEDICAL
9 = SEARCH AND RESCUE
10 = HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
11 = AG/NATURAL RESOURCES
12 = ENERGY
13 = PUBLIC SAFETY
14 = LONG TERM RECOVERY
15 = EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
(Ord. of 1-28-2010)
Sec. 24-6. - Overcharging for goods, materials, services and housing during a state of emergency prohibited.
(a)
Overcharging prohibited. In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which Madison County has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in Madison County to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(b)
Definitions.
(1)
Overcharging. The term "overcharging" is defined as charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing.
The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
(2)
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(3)
Subsequent recovery period. The term "subsequent recovery period" is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of Madison County.
(c)
Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this section upon conviction shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each sale shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 10-4-2010, §§ 1—3)
Sec. 24-7. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting Georgia or the United States, the affairs and business of Madison County may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of Madison County, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of county, all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within Madison County. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Code of Ordinances of Madison County, or any portion thereof, where: (a) the emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required; (b) such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and (c) such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the Madison County Health Department and Madison County Building and Inspections Department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six [months] in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(f)
Definitions.
(1)
Fees means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. "Fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
(2)
State of emergency, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(3)
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster emergency. The "subsequent recovery period" shall not exceed six months. The state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the governing authority of Madison County.
(4)
Temporary dwelling. Any mobile or easily movable home, trailer recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations a particular zoning district.
(Ord. of 10-4-2010(1), §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 24-8. - Registration of building and repair services.
(a)
Building contractor registration required. No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of Madison County, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the county and having paid fees as provided by this article.
(b)
Definitions.
(1)
Building contractor. As used in this section the word or term "building contractor" shall mean any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
(2)
Doing business. Any building contractor shall be deemed to be "doing business" subject to the requirements of this section if: (a) he has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly, including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or (b) he performs the following activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly, including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
(3)
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(4)
Subsequent recovery period. The term "subsequent recovery period" is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed three months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(c)
Registration; certification. All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the unincorporated areas of Madison County during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the clerk of the governing authority of the county or such other person designated by the governing authority at the county courthouse or such other place or places designated by the county. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the county governing authority with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(d)
Registration fees. Building contractor registration fees are hereby fixed under the terms and conditions of this section at $50.00 per annum. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(e)
Penalties. Any building contractor required by this section to pay a registration fee who engages in business without first registering and receiving a registration certification from the county as required shall be in violation of this section. Violation of this section, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation and/or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days. Each day a building contractor does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without complying with this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(f)
Transferability. Each certification issued under this section is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that the same is not transferable and after issuance no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(g)
Display of registration certification. Each certification issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(h)
Revocation; suspension. Each certification granted under this section is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as said business is conducted in a lawful manner. The county governing authority hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted hereunder, if the building contractor, or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this section or any other county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a certification, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(i)
Severability. If any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or word of this section is for any reason held by the court to be unconstitutional, inoperative, or void, such holding shall not affect the remainder to the section.
(j)
Effective date; expiration. This section shall take effect on the date of its being duly adopted and shall apply to all building contractors doing business in the unincorporated areas of Madison County on that date and doing business on any date thereafter. However, this section and any certification issued pursuant to it shall be operative only during the period of a declared state of emergency and any subsequent recovery periods.
(Ord. of 10-4-2010(2), §§ 1—10)
Sec. 24-9. - Imposition of curfews during times of emergency or disaster.
(a)
Institution of curfew.
(1)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of Madison County.
(2)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(3)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(b)
Definitions.
(1)
Curfew. A "curfew" is a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this section from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
(2)
Exempt individuals. Unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, "exempt individuals" include those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to Madison County Ordinance adopted October 4, 2010 ("Ordinance to Require Registration and Licensing of Building and Repair Services During a State of Emergency"), performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
(3)
State of emergency. As defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(c)
Prohibition. It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of unincorporated Madison County during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Ord. of 10-4-2010(3), §§ 1—3)
