ARTICLE III. - SERVICE

Section 3.01. - Current Credited Service.
"Current Credited Service" shall mean the number of years and complete months of Service of a Participant with the Adopting Employer from his Enrollment Date to his Termination, which are credited as Current Credited Service for purposes of meeting the Plan's requirements for vesting, retirement and death benefit eligibility, and/or for purposes of computing the amount of benefits payable under the Plan, determined in accordance with and subject to any limitations established in the Master Plan and the Employer's Adoption Agreement. Current Credited Service shall include unused paid time off which the Employer elects to treat as Current Credited Service for a Terminated Participant for certain purposes, as provided and subject to any limitations contained in the Adoption Agreement; provided, however, that leave conversions will be permitted only if (i) the leave is for unused accrued paid time off for vacation and/or sick leave or for comparable paid-time-off under an established leave policy without regard to whether the leave is due to illness or incapacity, (ii) the leave policy qualifies as a bona fide sick and/or vacation leave plan for purposes of Code Section 409A and Treasury Regulation ยง 1.409A-1(a)(5), (iii) the Plan provides for service credit for an Employee's unused paid time off, provided that the eligibility requirements for participation in the Plan do not permit an Employee to become a Participant only in the Plan Year in which the Employee terminates employment, (iv) the conversion is automatic and the employee has no right to request a cash payment, (v) the unused paid time off is converted to service credit under a formula specified in the Adoption Agreement and which satisfies the definitely determinable standard of Treasury Regulation ยง 1.401-1(b)(1)(i), (vi) the Adopting Employer's Plan otherwise provides for service credit unrelated to the conversion of any Employee's unused paid time off, and (vii) the Participant's annual benefit, as adjusted by the leave conversion, does not exceed the limit under Code Section 415(b).
Section 3.02. - USERRA Military Service Credit.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, contributions, benefits, and service credit with respect to qualified military service shall be provided in accordance with Code Section 414(u). Code Section 414(u) provides that: (i) individuals reemployed under the Uniform Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 ("USERRA") must be treated as not having incurred a break in Service because of qualified military service, (ii) periods of qualified military service must be counted for vesting and benefit accruals, (iii) make-up of contributions up to the maximum the individual could have made if continuously employed must be allowed during the period beginning on reemployment and lasting for the lesser of three (3) times the period of qualified military service or five (5) years, (iv) any accrued benefits contingent on make-up contributions must be made by the Employer, (v) earnings are not required to be credited unless and until after the employee contributes make-up contributions, (vi) allocations of forfeitures to the individual's account are not required during qualified military service, (vii) make-up contributions are based on compensation the individual would have received during the period of qualified military service (if not reasonably certain, compensation for the 12 month period (or, if shorter, the period of employment) immediately preceding qualified military service can be used), and (viii) make-up contributions are subject to the limitations of Code Sections 402(g), 415, and 404(a) for the year to which the contribution relates, not the year in which contribution is made.
Section 3.03. - Credited Past Service.
"Credited Past Service" shall mean the number of years and complete months of Service of a Participant with the Adopting Employer prior to his Enrollment Date which are treated as Credited Past Service under the Employer's Adoption Agreement for purposes of meeting the Plan's requirements for participation, vesting, retirement and death benefit eligibility, and/or or for purposes of computing the amount of benefits payable under the Plan, subject to any limitations established in the Master Plan or the Adoption Agreement.
Section 3.04. - Prior Governmental Service.
"Prior Governmental Service" shall mean government service preceding the Eligible Employee's employment or reemployment date with the Adopting Employer, usually for an entity other than the Adopting Employer, which the Employer elects to treat as Credited Service for certain purposes, as provided and subject to any limitations contained in the Adoption Agreement.
Section 3.05. - Prior Military Service.
"Prior Military Service" shall mean Military Service not covered by Section 3.02 which the Employer elects to treat as Credited Service for certain purposes, as provided and subject to any limitations contained in the Adoption Agreement.
Section 3.06. - Service.
"Service" shall mean regular service rendered as an Eligible Employee of the Adopting Employer. Service may include absence from active employment with the Adopting Employer under conditions which are not treated by the Employer as a Termination of Employment, subject to Article IV concerning leaves of absence and any other conditions or limitations specified in the Master Plan and Adoption Agreement. For those Employers who elect in the Adoption Agreement to include elected or appointed members of the Governing Authority or Municipal Legal Officers as Eligible Employees, Service also means any tenure of office held by an elected or appointed member of the Governing Authority or a Municipal Legal Officer, provided that such tenure of office does not include any calendar period during which any elected or appointed member of the Governing Authority or Municipal Legal Officer is also in the regular service of the Employer as an Eligible Employee in another capacity. No Participant may receive credit for more than one (1) year of Service in any twelve (12) month period.
Section 3.07. - Total Credited Service.
"Total Credited Service" shall mean the sum of the Participant's Current Credited Service, Credited Past Service, Prior Military Service, and Prior Governmental Service, as specified in this Article and covered per the Employer's Adoption Agreement, subject to any limitations imposed under the Master Plan or the Employer's Adoption Agreement. The term Total Credited Service includes any Service required to be included in Total Credited Service by USERRA, or any other applicable federal or state law. Full months of Total Credited Service shall be treated as fractions of one (1) year. Partial months shall not be included in the calculation. The Employer may specify in the Adoption Agreement a maximum number of years that may be included as Total Credited Service. If an Employer elects in its Adoption Agreement to require Employee Contributions, Total Credited Service shall not include any period of time for which the Employee is required but fails to make such Employee Contributions to the Plan.
An Employee excluded from participation because of age shall receive credit for all Service as required by law.
