ARTICLE VIII. - DEATH BENEFITS

Section 8.01. - Death in Service Prior to Retirement.
In the event a Participant's employment or term of office is Terminated by reason of his death prior to his Retirement, there shall be paid to his Pre-Retirement Beneficiary (Primary, Secondary, or Default Beneficiary, as applicable), the in-service death benefit elected by the Employer in the Adoption Agreement, provided the requirements of this Article are satisfied.
Section 8.02. - Actuarial Reserve In-Service Death Benefit.
An Employer may elect in the Adoption Agreement to provide the Actuarial Reserve In-Service Death Benefit for one or more classes of Eligible Employees. In such case, the Employer shall designate in the Adoption Agreement the minimum Service and other eligibility requirements a Participant must satisfy in order to be entitled to receive such benefit. Provided a Participant satisfies such requirements, then in the event the Participant's employment with the Adopting Employer is terminated by reason of his death prior to his Retirement, there shall be paid to his Pre-Retirement Beneficiary a lifetime monthly death benefit actuarially equivalent to the reserve required for the Participant's anticipated Normal Retirement benefit. In calculating the Normal Retirement benefit under the provisions of this Section, the following assumptions shall be used:
(1)
The Participant's age at the time of his death is equal to the Normal Retirement Age as specified by the Employer in the Adoption Agreement, or his attained age if his attained age is greater than the Normal Retirement Age; and,
(2)
The Participant's Total Credited Service shall include the amount of Total Credited Service accrued prior to the date of the Participant's death. The Employer may elect in the Adoption Agreement to include additional imputed Credited Service in the calculation, but in no event shall be amount of Total Credited Service used in the calculation exceed the sum of actual Service performed plus ten (10) calendar years. The death benefit under this Section shall be calculated using the factors contained in Section 12.05.
Section 8.03. - Auto A In-Service Death Benefit.
An Employer may elect in the Adoption Agreement to provide the Auto A in-service death benefit for one or more classes of Eligible Employees. In such case, the Employer shall designate in the Adoption Agreement the minimum Service and other eligibility requirements a Participant must satisfy in order to be entitled to such benefit. Provided a Participant satisfies such requirements, then in the event that the Participant's employment with the Adopting Employer is terminated by reason of his death prior to his Retirement, there shall be paid to his Pre-Retirement Beneficiary a lifetime monthly death benefit, as follows:
(a)
Monthly Death Benefit Payable to Spouse. If the Pre-Retirement Beneficiary to whom the in-service death benefit is payable under this Section (Primary, Secondary, or Default Pre-Retirement Beneficiary, as applicable) is the Participant's Spouse, then the lifetime monthly death benefit payable to said Spouse shall commence on the first day of the month coinciding with or immediately following the date of the Participant's death. Alternatively, the Spouse may elect to defer benefit payment commencement until the first day of any month up to and including the date the Participant would have attained Normal Retirement Age as defined in the Employer's Adoption Agreement. For purposes of this Section, the term "Spouse" or "Spouse Beneficiary" shall be as defined in Section 2.59. A Spouse shall be considered to have deferred benefit payment commencement until the first day of the month following the date the Spouse makes application for payment of death benefits. If the Pre-Retirement Beneficiary to whom the in-service death benefit is payable under this Section (Primary, Secondary, or Default Pre-Retirement Beneficiary, as applicable) is not the Spouse of the Participant, then the lifetime monthly death benefit payable to said Beneficiary shall commence on the first day of the month coinciding with or immediately following the date of the Participant's death.
(b)
Computation of Monthly Death Benefits. Benefits under this Section shall be computed as of the date of the Participant's death, based upon the applicable benefit formula in effect on said date, as follows:
(1)
Participant Death Before Early Retirement Age; Payment Before Early Retirement Age. If a Participant dies before attaining Early Retirement Age as defined in the Employer's Adoption Agreement, and if benefit payments commence to a Pre-Retirement Beneficiary (Primary, Secondary, or Default Beneficiary, as applicable) before the Participant would have attained Early Retirement Age, then the monthly death benefit payable to said Beneficiary shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the monthly Retirement benefit amount that would have otherwise been payable to the Participant, assuming the Participant: (i) terminated employment on his date of death; (ii) survived until Normal Retirement Age as defined in the Adoption Agreement; and (iii) elected to retire upon attaining Normal Retirement Age with the optional form of Retirement payment designated in Section 7.03 as Option B at one hundred percent (100%), and then died. Said benefit shall be calculated in accordance with the actuarial assumptions specified in Section 12.07.
(2)
Participant Death Before Early Retirement Age; Deferred Payment by Spouse Until After Early Retirement Age. If the Participant dies before attaining Early Retirement Age as defined in the Employer's Adoption Agreement and a Spouse who is eligible to receive the in-service death benefit hereunder defers payment until a date which is on or after the date the Participant would have attained Early Retirement Age, then the monthly death benefit payable to the Spouse Beneficiary shall be the monthly Retirement benefit that would have otherwise been payable to the Participant, assuming that the Participant: (i) terminated employment on the date of death; (ii) survived until the date upon which the deferred benefit payments commence in accordance with the Spouse Beneficiary's selected benefit commencement date; and, (iii) elected to retire on the benefit commencement date with the optional form of Retirement payment designated in Section 7.03 as Option B at one hundred percent (100%), and then died.
(3)
Participant Death After Early Retirement Age; Payment Upon Death. If the Participant dies after attaining Early Retirement Age as defined in the Employer's Adoption Agreement, and if benefit payments commence to a Beneficiary (Primary Beneficiary, Secondary Beneficiary, or Default Beneficiary, as applicable) on the first day of the month coinciding with or immediately following the date of the Participant's death, then the monthly death benefit payable to said Beneficiary shall be the monthly benefit that would have otherwise been payable to the Participant, assuming the Participant: (i) retired on the date of death, and (ii) elected the optional form of Retirement payment designated in Section 7.03 as Option B at one hundred percent (100%), and then died.
(4)
Participant Death After Early Retirement Age; Deferred Payment by Spouse. If the Participant dies after attaining Early Retirement Age as defined in the Employer's Adoption Agreement, and if a Spouse who is eligible to receive the in-service death benefit hereunder defers payment in accordance with this Section, then the monthly benefit payable to the Spouse Beneficiary shall be the monthly Retirement benefit that would have otherwise been payable to the Participant, assuming that the Participant: (i) terminated employment on his date of death; (ii) survived until the date upon which the deferred benefit payments commence in accordance with the Spouse Beneficiary's selected commencement date, and (ii) elected to retire on the benefit commencement date with the optional form of Retirement payment designated in Section 7.03 as Option B at one hundred percent (100%), and then died.
Section 8.04. - Designation of Primary and Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary.
Upon completing the minimum Service and other eligibility requirements to be entitled to a pre-retirement in-service death benefit, a Participant may designate, on an Applicable Form provided for that purpose, one person as his Primary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary. The Primary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary shall receive the monthly pre-retirement death benefit elected by the Employer in the Adoption Agreement in the event that the Participant's employment with the Employer is terminated by reason of the Participant's death prior to his Retirement, provided the Primary Beneficiary survives the Participant by at least thirty-two (32) days in accordance with O.C.G.A. ยง 47-1-15 (a copy of which is included in the Appendix hereto). The Participant may additionally designate, on an Applicable Form provided for that purpose, one person as his Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary. The monthly death benefit otherwise payable to the Primary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary hereunder shall be payable to the Participant's designated Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary in the event that: (1) the Participant's employment with the Employer is terminated by reason of the Participant's death prior to his Retirement; (2) the Primary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary does not survive the Participant by at least thirty-two (32) days; and (3) the Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary survives the Participant by at least thirty-two (32) days.
Section 8.05. - Change of Beneficiary.
Designation of a Primary or Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary may be changed by the Participant in writing on an Applicable Form provided for that purpose at any time prior to Retirement. Only the last such designation prior to Retirement shall have effect and any new designation of a Primary or Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary invalidates, supersedes, and revokes any prior designation.
Section 8.06. - Default Beneficiary.
In the absence of a designation by the Participant, or if there is no Primary or Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary to whom a pre-retirement death benefit is payable under this Article, then the pre-retirement death benefit shall be paid to the Participant's surviving Default Beneficiary in accordance with this Section. For purposes of this Section, the Participant's Default Beneficiary(ies) shall be as follows: (a) the Participant's surviving Spouse; or (b) if there is no surviving Spouse, the Participant's surviving Children; or (c) if there is no surviving Spouse or Children, the Participant's surviving Parent(s). For purposes of this Section, the term "surviving" shall mean surviving the Participant by at least thirty-two (32) days. For purposes of this Section, the term "Spouse" shall be as defined in Section 2.59. The term "Child" or "Children" shall be as defined in Section 2.10. The term "Parent" shall be as defined in O.C.G.A. ยง 19-11-3(7), determined as of the date of the Participant's death. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, if a death benefit becomes payable to more than one Child of the Participant under this Section, then such benefit shall be paid to each such Child and calculated in a manner to provide each Child with an equal monthly benefit which ceases on the date such child reaches age twenty-two (22). Such benefit shall be calculated using the factors contained in Section 12.07. If a death benefit is payable to more than one surviving Parent of the Participant under this Section, then such benefit shall be calculated in a manner to provide each such Parent with the same monthly benefit amount for his or her lifetime. If a child who is receiving a monthly benefit hereunder reaches age twenty-two (22) or if a child or Parent receiving a monthly benefit hereunder dies, this shall not affect the monthly benefit amount any other child or Parent is receiving. Except as otherwise provided in Section 8.07, if there is no Primary, Secondary, or Default Beneficiary to whom a death benefit is payable, then no death benefit is payable under the Plan.
Section 8.07. - Actuarial Reserve In-Service Death Benefit; Payment to Estate.
With respect to the Actuarial Reserve in-service death benefit only, if there is no Primary, Secondary or Default Pre-Retirement Beneficiary to whom a death benefit is payable under Section 8.06, then the Actuarial Equivalent of the Participant's vested Accrued Retirement Benefit shall be paid to the Participant's estate in lieu of the lifetime monthly benefit which would otherwise be payable to a Pre-Retirement Beneficiary. Such Actuarial Equivalent shall be determined as if the Participant had terminated employment on the date immediately preceding his date of death and received a lump sum distribution of his benefit under Section 7.05, determined without reference to the maximum cash-out limits of said Section.
Section 8.08. - Terminated Vested Death Benefits.
If the Employer elects in the Adoption Agreement to provide a death benefit for Terminated Participants or for certain classes of Terminated Participants, then in the event such a terminated vested Participant dies before his effective Retirement Date, there shall be paid to his Pre-Retirement Beneficiary (Primary, Secondary, or Default Pre-Retirement Beneficiary, as applicable) the terminated vested death benefit specified in the Adoption Agreement, provided the requirements of this Article are satisfied.
Section 8.09. - Terminated Vested Auto A Death Benefit.
The Employer may elect in the Adoption Agreement to provide the Auto A Death Benefit for one or more classes of Terminated Participants. In such case, the Employer shall designate in the Adoption Agreement the minimum Service and other eligibility requirements a Terminated Participant must satisfy in order to be entitled to such benefit. Provided a Terminated Participant satisfies such requirements, then in the event that the Terminated Participant dies prior to his effective Retirement date, his Pre-Retirement Beneficiary may apply to receive a lifetime monthly death benefit subject to the provisions of this Section. If the Terminated Participant's Pre-Retirement Beneficiary is the Terminated Participant's Spouse, then the lifetime monthly death benefit payable to the Spouse Beneficiary under this Section shall commence on the first day of the month coinciding with or immediately following the date of the Terminated Participant's death. Alternatively, the Spouse Beneficiary may elect to defer benefit payment commencement until the first day of any month up to and including the date the Participant would have attained Normal Retirement Age as determined under the Employer's Adoption Agreement. For purposes of this Section, the term "Spouse" or "Spouse Beneficiary" shall be as defined in Section 2.59. A Spouse Beneficiary shall be considered to have deferred benefit payment commencement until the first day of the month following the date the Spouse makes application for payment of death benefits. If the designated and surviving Pre-Retirement Beneficiary is not the Spouse of the Terminated Participant, then the lifetime monthly death benefit payable to the Beneficiary under this Section shall commence on the first day of the month coinciding with or immediately following the date of the Terminated Participant's death. Benefits under this Section shall be computed as follows:
(a)
Terminated Participant Death Before Early Retirement Age; Payment Before Early Retirement Age. If a Terminated Participant dies before attaining Early Retirement Age as defined in the Adoption Agreement, and if benefit payments commence to a Spouse Beneficiary or non-spouse Beneficiary before the Terminated Participant would have attained Early Retirement Age, then the monthly death benefit payable to the Beneficiary shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the monthly Retirement benefit amount that would have otherwise been payable to the Terminated Participant, assuming: (i) the Terminated Participant survived until Normal Retirement Age; and (ii) the Terminated Participant elected the optional form of Retirement payment designated herein as Option A at one hundred percent (100%), and then died. Said benefit shall be calculated in accordance with the actuarial assumptions specified in Section 12.07.
(b)
Terminated Participant Death Before Early Retirement Age; Deferred Payment by Spouse Until After Early Retirement Age. If the Terminated Participant dies before attaining Early Retirement Age as defined in the Adoption Agreement and a Spouse Beneficiary defers payment until a date which is on or after the date the Terminated Participant would have attained Early Retirement Age, then the monthly death benefit payable to the Spouse Beneficiary shall be the monthly Retirement benefit that would have otherwise been payable to the Terminated Participant, assuming that: (i) the Terminated Participant survived until the date upon which the deferred benefit payments commence in accordance with the Spouse Beneficiary's selected benefit commencement date; and, (ii) the Terminated Participant elected on such date to retire with the optional form of Retirement payment designated herein as Option A at one hundred percent (100%), and then died.
(c)
Terminated Participant Death After Early Retirement Age; Payment Upon Death. If the Terminated Participant dies after attaining Early Retirement Age as defined in the Adoption Agreement, and if benefit payments commence to a Spouse Beneficiary or non-spouse Beneficiary on the first day of the month coinciding with or immediately following the date of the Terminated Participant's death, then the monthly death benefit payable to the Beneficiary shall be the monthly benefit that would have otherwise been payable to the Terminated Participant, assuming: (i) the Terminated Participant retired on the date of death, and (ii) the Terminated Participant elected the optional form of Retirement payment designated herein as Option A at one hundred percent (100%), and then died.
(d)
Terminated Participant Death After Early Retirement Age; Deferred Payment by Spouse. If the Terminated Participant dies after attaining Early Retirement Age, and if a Spouse Beneficiary defers payment in accordance with this Section, then the monthly benefit payable to the Spouse Beneficiary shall be the monthly Retirement benefit that would have otherwise been payable to the Terminated Participant, assuming that: (i) the Terminated Participant survived until the date upon which the deferred benefit payments commence in accordance with the Spouse Beneficiary's selected commencement date, and (ii) the Terminated Participant elected to retire on such date with the optional form of Retirement payment designated herein as Option A at one hundred percent (100%), and then died.
(e)
Calculation of Benefits. Benefits under this Section shall be calculated taking into account only the Participant's Total Credited Service and Final Average Earnings (where applicable) as of the date of his Termination of Employment with Adopting Employer, and the applicable benefit formula in effect on the date of said Termination.
Section 8.10. - Accrued Retirement Benefit.
The Employer may elect in the Adoption Agreement to provide a death benefit consisting of the Accrued Retirement Benefit for one or more classes of Terminated Participants. In such case, the Employer shall designate the minimum Service and other eligibility requirements a Terminated Participant must satisfy in order to be entitled to such benefit. Provided a Terminated Participant satisfies such requirements, then in the event that the Terminated Participant dies prior to his effective Retirement date, his Pre-Retirement Beneficiary may apply to receive a lifetime monthly death benefit subject to the provisions of this Section. Said benefit shall commence on the first day of the month coinciding with or immediately following the date of the Terminated Participant's death. The monthly death benefit payable to the Participant's Pre-Retirement Beneficiary shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Terminated Participant's death, taking into account the Participant's Total Credited Service, Final Average Earnings, and the benefit formula in effect as of the date of the Participant's Termination.
Section 8.11. - Designation of Terminated Vested Pre-Retirement Beneficiary.
The Primary and Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary designated by the Participant to receive in-service death benefits under this Section 8.04 shall automatically be considered the Participant's Primary and Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary for purposes of payment of terminated vested pre-retirement death benefits, if any, under the Employer's Plan. If the Participant changes his beneficiary designation in accordance with Section 8.05, his designation under this Section shall be considered changed as well to reflect the new designation. In the absence of a designation by the Participant, or if there is no Primary or Secondary Pre-Retirement Beneficiary to whom a terminated vested pre-retirement death benefit is payable upon the Participant's death, then the terminated vested pre-retirement death benefit otherwise payable, if any, shall be paid to the Participant's Default Beneficiary in accordance with Section 8.06. If there is no Primary, Secondary, or Default Pre-Retirement Beneficiary to whom a death benefit is payable, then no death benefit is payable under the Plan.
Section 8.12. - Participant Death After Retirement Benefit Commencement.
Upon the death of a Retired Participant subsequent to his Retirement, there shall be payable to the Participant's designated Post-Retirement Beneficiary, a benefit to be determined as follows:
(a)
If the Participant has elected a form of payment that does not permit designation of a Post-Retirement Beneficiary (Option A or Option E), as provided in Article VII, or if he has elected a form of payment that does permit such designation (Option B, C, or D) and his designated Post-Retirement Beneficiary does not survive him, no further payment of any kind whatsoever shall be made at the death of the Participant.
(b)
If the Participant has elected a form of payment that permits designation of a Post-Retirement Beneficiary (Option B, C, or D) as provided in Article VII, and his designated Post-Retirement Beneficiary survives him, benefits shall be payable to the Post-Retirement Beneficiary as provided by the option elected, commencing the month following the Participant's last benefit payment month.
