ARTICLE XX. - MISCELLANEOUS

Section 20.01. - Construction.
(a)
Words used in this Plan in the masculine gender shall be construed to include the feminine gender where appropriate, and words used in this Plan in the singular or plural shall be construed as being in the plural or singular where appropriate.
(b)
The Plan shall be construed, enforced, and administered and the validity thereof determined in accordance with the Code, and, when not inconsistent with the Code, the laws of the State of Georgia and the bylaws of the Board.
(c)
In resolving any conflict between provisions of the Plan and in resolving any other uncertainty as to the meaning or intention of any provision of the Plan, the interpretation that (i) causes the Plan to constitute a qualified governmental retirement plan under the provisions of Code Sections 401 and 414(d) and the Trust as exempt from tax under Code Sections 501 and 115, and (ii) causes the Plan to comply with all applicable requirements of the Code and federal law shall prevail over any different interpretation.
(d)
In resolving any conflict between the Plan and any policy or contract issued under the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall prevail.
(e)
The headings and subheadings in the Plan are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of any provision of the Plan.
(f)
Neither the establishment nor maintenance of the Plan nor any amendment thereof, nor any act or omission under the Plan or resulting from the operation of the Plan shall be construed:
(1)
As conferring upon any Participant, beneficiary, or any other person a right or claim against the GMEBS Investment Fund, the Trust Fund, the Trustees, the Adopting Employer, or the Administrator, except to the extent that such right or claim shall be specifically expressed and provided in the Plan;
(2)
As a contract or Agreement between the Adopting Employer and any Participant or other person;
(3)
As being consideration for, or an inducement or condition of, employment of any Participant or other person, or as affecting or restricting in any manner or to any extent whatsoever the rights or obligations of the Adopting Employer or any Participant or other person to continue or terminate the employment relationship at any time; or
(4)
As giving any Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Adopting Employer or to interfere with the right of the Adopting Employer to discharge any Participant or other person at any time.
Section 20.02. - Non-Diversion.
(a)
The assets of the Plan shall never inure to the benefit of an Adopting Employer and shall be held for the exclusive purposes of providing benefits to Participants in the Plan and their beneficiaries and defraying reasonable expenses of administering the Plan, except in the case of a contribution which is made by an Adopting Employer under a mistake of fact as determined solely by the Administrator. Such contribution shall be returned to the Adopting Employer, upon demand, and shall be reduced for any loss incurred but unadjusted for any gains earned during the time the mistaken contribution was part of the Trust Fund.
(b)
Trust assets shall be managed in compliance with Code Section 503(b).
Section 20.03. - Legally Incompetent; Power of Attorney.
Any Participant, Retired Participant, Terminated Participant, or Beneficiary receiving or claiming benefits under the Plan shall be conclusively presumed to be mentally competent and of age until the Administrator receives a written notice, in a form and manner acceptable to it, that such person is incompetent or a minor, and that a guardian or other person legally vested with the care of his estate has been appointed. In the event a guardian of the estate of any person receiving or claiming benefits under the Plan shall be appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction, payments shall be made to such guardian and the guardian may take any and all actions with respect to the person's interest under the Plan in accordance with the terms of the appointment, provided that proper proof of appointment is furnished in a form and manner suitable to the Administrator. Any payment so made shall be a complete discharge of liability therefor under the Plan. No person may act as an attorney-in-fact for an Employee, Participant, Terminated Participant, Retired Participant or Beneficiary with respect to a matter involving the Plan unless a valid power of attorney document appointing such person and authorizing such action is submitted in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator. The Administrator shall be entitled to rely upon a power of attorney document which it reasonably determines to be valid, without liability for actions taken by the Administrator at the request of the designated attorney-in-fact, unless and until the Administrator receives notice that the power of attorney is no longer effective.
Section 20.04. - Benefits Supported Only by Trust Fund.
Any person having any claim under the Plan shall look solely to the assets of the Trust Fund for satisfaction. In no event shall the Adopting Employer, or any of its employees or agents, be liable in their individual capacities to any person whomsoever, under the provisions of the Plan or of the GMEBS Trust Agreement.
Section 20.05. - Non-Discrimination.
The Adopting Employer, through the Pension Committee, shall administer the Plan in a uniform and consistent manner with respect to all Participants.
Section 20.06. - Limitation of Liability; Legal Actions.
(a)
It is expressly understood and agreed by each Employee who becomes a Participant hereunder that, except for willful neglect or fraud, neither the Adopting Employer, the Plan Representative, nor the Board of Trustees shall be in any way subject to any suit or litigation, or to any legal liability, for any cause or reason or thing whatsoever, in connection with the Plan or its operation, and each such Participant hereby releases the Adopting Employer, all its employees and agents, the Plan Representative, and the Board of Trustees from any and all liability or obligation.
(b)
The Adopting Employer and the Plan Representative shall be the only necessary parties to any action or proceeding involving any rights under the Plan or the proper administration thereof, and no Participant, Beneficiary, or other persons having or claiming to have an interest in the Plan shall be entitled to any notice of process. Any final judgment which is not appealed or appealable that may be entered in any such action or proceeding shall be binding and conclusive on the parties hereto and all persons having or claiming to have an interest in the Plan.
Each fiduciary under the Plan shall be responsible only for the specific duties assigned under the Plan and shall not be directly or indirectly responsible for the duties assigned to another fiduciary. Any person or a group of persons may serve in more than one (1) fiduciary capacity with respect to the Plan.
Section 20.07. - Claims.
Any payment to a Participant or Beneficiary, or to their legal representatives, in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, shall to the extent thereof be in full satisfaction of all claims hereunder against the Plan Representative or the Adopting Employer, either of which may require such Participant, Beneficiary, or legal representative, as a condition precedent to such payment, to execute a receipt and release therefor in such form as shall be determined by the Plan Representative or the Adopting Employer.
Section 20.08. - Errors in Benefits.
(a)
Underpayments. Any underpayments from the Trust Fund to a Retired Participant or to a Beneficiary caused by administrative errors shall be corrected with interest compounded annually from the date of the miscalculated payment. The rate applied shall be the actuarially assumed rate utilized by the plan actuary for estimating future plan investment earnings as of the date of the correction. Underpayments shall be made up from the Adopting Employer's Trust Fund.
(b)
Overpayments. In the event of an overpayment from the Trust Fund to a Retired Participant or to a Beneficiary caused by administrative error, the following provisions shall apply:
(1)
Corrective Amendment Option. In the event of an overpayment that is due to misapplication of the terms of the plan, the Adopting Employer may be provided the opportunity to amend its Adoption Agreement (a "Corrective Amendment") in order to provide for such overpayment to be permissible under the terms of the plan, but only if the Corrective Amendment is consistent with the circumstances resulting in the overpayment and with the Master Plan, as determined by the Administrator. The Corrective Amendment may be effective either retroactively only, or both retroactively and prospectively.
(2)
Determination of Reasonableness of Collection from Retired Participants or Beneficiaries. In the event that the Adopting Employer does not adopt a Corrective Amendment, or that the circumstances resulting in the overpayment or the Master Plan would not permit such an amendment, the Administrator and the Adopting Employer will consult in making a determination of whether collection of the overpayment (in full or in part) from a Retired Participant or Beneficiary is reasonable under the particular facts and circumstances involved. In their determination, the Administrator and the Adopting Employer shall consider (1) the hardship of collection on the Retired Participant or Beneficiary; (2) any legal impediments to collection; and (3) the potential risk of litigation if collection is pursued, in consultation with the affected Adopting Employer's counsel.
(3)
Failure to Reach Agreement on Reasonableness of Collection. If the Administrator and the Adopting Employer cannot reach agreement within six (6) months as to whether collection of an overpayment from a Retired Participant or Beneficiary is reasonable, the Board shall make this determination, considering the factors outlined above in paragraph (2).
(4)
Collection Process. If a determination under this subsection is made that collection from the Retired Participant or Beneficiary is reasonable, the overpayment shall be corrected with interest compounded annually from the date of the miscalculated payment. The rate applied shall be the actuarially assumed rate utilized by the plan actuary for estimating future plan investment earnings as of the date of the correction. In collecting amounts of the overpayment (in full or in part), the Administrator shall have the discretion to use any of the following options: (i) single sum payments; (ii) installment payments; (iii) actuarial reduction of future Retirement payments; or (iv) deductions from Retirement payments. Retirement payment deductions shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the amount of payment from which the deduction is made.
(5)
Corrective Payment by Adopting Employer. If full collection of an overpayment is not achieved, either because of a determination that full collection from the Retired Participant or Beneficiary is not reasonable, or because efforts at collection do not result in a full collection of the overpayment, the Adopting Employer shall be responsible for making a separate, supplemental contribution to the Trust Fund in the amount of any uncollected overpayment, including interest as calculated under paragraph (4) ("corrective contribution"). Any corrective contribution by a Participating Employer must be made at the same time that the next regular employer contribution is due under the Plan. In the event employer contributions are paid in installments, the corrective contribution may be paid over that same installment period, but not to exceed a twelve (12) month period. The corrective contribution may not be included as a portion of the general liability of the Plan for which regular funding contributions are made.
(6)
If the overpayment involves circumstances that are not addressed in the preceding provisions of this subsection, or if in the determination of the GMEBS board, the overpayment cannot be practicably or appropriately corrected using the methods addressed in this subsection, GMEBS may develop a correction approach that is appropriate under the circumstances, permissible under state and federal law, and equitable to the parties involved.
Section 20.09. - Notice.
Any notice given under the Plan shall be sufficient if given to: (1) the Board if addressed to the Administrator at its office; (2) the Adopting Employer if addressed to the address of the Governing Authority indicated in the Adoption Agreement; or (3) a Participant or Beneficiary, when addressed to the Participant at his or her address as it appears in the records of the Administrator or the Adopting Employer.
Section 20.10. - Right of Recovery.
If the Administrator makes any payment that according to the terms of the Plan and the benefits provided hereunder should not have been made, the Administrator may recover that incorrect payment, whether or not it was made due to the error of the Administrator, from the person to whom it was made, or from any other appropriate party. If any such incorrect payment is made directly to a Participant, the provisions of Section 20.08 apply.
Section 20.11. - Evidence of Action.
Any action by any Adopting Employer pursuant to any of the provisions of the Plan shall be evidenced by ordinance or resolution of its governing body, and the Administrator and the Board shall be fully protected in acting in accordance with such resolution or ordinance so certified to it. All orders, requests, and instructions to the Administrator by an Adopting Employer or by any duly authorized representative, shall be in writing and the Administrator shall act and shall be fully protected in acting in accordance with such orders, requests, and instructions.
Section 20.12. - Reliance.
The Administrator or Board shall not incur any liability in acting upon any notice, request, signed letter, telegram, or other paper or document believed by the Administrator or Board to be genuine or to be executed or sent by an authorized person.
Section 20.13. - Entire Plan.
The Plan document and the documents incorporated by reference herein shall constitute the only legally governing documents for the Plan. No statement by the Trustees, Adopting Employer, or Administrator shall be used in any claim unless in writing, signed by the party against whom the claim is being made.
