ARTICLE XIV. - PENSION COMMITTEE

Section 14.01. - Creation and Composition.
There shall be a Pension Committee for each Adopting Employer. Unless otherwise specified in the Adoption Agreement, the Pension Committee shall be composed of the following:
For Municipal Corporations:
(a)
City Clerk and City Manager.
(b)
Two (2) Employee representatives appointed by the Governing Authority.
(c)
Three (3) appointed members of the Governing Authority.
For Other Adopting Employers:
(d)
Executive Director.
(e)
Two (2) Employee representatives appointed by the Governing Authority.
(f)
Four (4) appointed members of the Governing Authority.
Section 14.02. - Responsibilities.
The Pension Committee shall have the following responsibilities:
(a)
In its dealings with GMEBS or its duly appointed representatives, the Pension Committee shall:
(1)
Assure that accurate and complete information is furnished to GMEBS with respect to eligibility for participation, Total Credited Service, Earnings, and Final Average Earnings of Eligible Employees, including elected or appointed members of the. Governing Authority and Municipal Legal Officers if they are designated as Eligible Employees in the Adoption Agreement.
(2)
Assure the collection and remittance to GMEBS of all required Contributions (including Employee Contributions, if applicable).
(3)
Collect, and furnish to GMEBS, in accordance with its rules and regulations, all reports, forms, and other records required or necessary to administer the Plan, including but not limited to completed applications for participation (if applicable), employee elections to participate (if participation is optional for a particular class), employee census reports reflecting information necessary to complete the annual plan valuation, completed pre-retirement beneficiary designation forms, completed leave of absence reports, and completed retirement applications (including disability retirement applications, if the Adopting Employer has elected in its Adoption Agreement to provide disability retirement benefits).
(4)
Provide reasonable prior notice to GMEBS of any amendments that the Adopting Employer intends to make to the Adoption Agreement.
(5)
Notify GMEBS of the termination of Participating Employees, and, if they are permitted in the Adoption Agreement to participate in the Plan, the vacation of office by elected or appointed members of the Governing Authority and Municipal Legal Officers. Said notification should indicate whether the Employee has been involuntarily terminated without cause (see Section 9.04 concerning 5-year vesting for Employees involuntarily terminated without cause).
(6)
Notify GMEBS when the Adopting Employer learns that an Eligible Employee, Participant, Terminated Participant, Retired Participant or Beneficiary has been convicted of a public employment-related crime or other crime which could result in forfeiture of benefits (see Section 9.06).
(7)
If the Adopting Employer has elected in the Adoption Agreement to provide disability retirement benefits, notify GMEBS of determinations made by the Pension Committee with respect to disability (see Section 2.21(b)) or continuation of disability (see Section 6.06(g)).
(8)
Notify GMEBS when the Adopting Employer learns of the death of an Eligible Employee, Participant, Terminated Participant, Retired Participant, or Beneficiary.
(b)
In dealing with those persons participating or eligible to participate in the Plan, the Pension Committee shall:
(1)
Be responsible for the enrollment of Eligible Employees, including elected or appointed members of the Governing Authority and Municipal Legal Officers if they are included as Eligible Employees in the Adoption Agreement.
(2)
Handle distribution of all reports, forms, or other plan-related materials to Participants, including but not limited to plan summary booklets and annual participant statements.
(3)
Handle arbitration between the Adopting Employer and Participants in all matters regarding the Plan and notify GMEBS of same.
(4)
Handle and distribute as necessary any notices of eligibility, benefits, available options, and any other notices required by this Plan, Contract, or rules and regulations of GMEBS.
(5)
Address Employee inquiries concerning eligibility for participation in the Plan, enrollment, eligibility for retirement, disability, and/or death benefits, benefit payment options, and other terms, conditions, and features of the Plan.
(c)
The Pension Committee is not authorized to interpret the Master Plan document, or matters of State and federal law as they relate to interpretation of the Master Plan document. These matters are reserved for the sole discretion of the Board.
Section 14.03. - Secretary.
The Adopting Employer shall designate in the Adoption Agreement a Pension Committee Secretary who shall have full authority to represent the Pension Committee in all communications with GMEBS and the Adopting Employer's Employees, including elected or appointed members of the Governing Authority and Municipal Legal Officers.
Section 14.04. - Legal Assistance.
The City Attorney or other attorney appointed by the Governing Authority shall furnish legal advice to the Pension Committee with respect to the Plan and the Committee's assigned responsibilities hereunder.
Section 14.05. - Plan Representative.
The Adopting Employer shall designate in the Adoption Agreement an individual to serve as Plan Representative. The Plan Representative shall have full authority to represent the Governing Authority in all communications with GMEBS and the Adopting Employer's Employees. The Pension Committee Secretary may serve as the Plan Representative.
