Chapter 5 - MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
Article I - MUNICIPAL SERVICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Sewer, sanitary and health service charges, §§ 4.16, 4.17.

Sec. 5.10. - Streets.
The mayor and council are hereby vested with the power to lay out, open, widen, change, straighten, alter, improve, vacate, abandon, close and otherwise to exercise complete control over the streets, alleys, squares and sidewalks of the City of LaGrange. The mayor and council shall provide for the removal of any and all obstacles and nuisances in regard to the streets, alleys or sidewalks or other public places within the city and shall adopt appropriate ordinances to accomplish this purpose.
State Law reference— General powers of city as to streets, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3.
Sec. 5.11. - Municipal utilities.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, build, maintain and operate a system of waterworks, electric lights, sewerage and gas distribution; to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered to any of said systems; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of Georgia; to exercise the power of eminent domain in regard to any of said systems, both within and without the corporate limits; and to contract to furnish the services of any said systems to consumers outside the corporate limits of the City of LaGrange.
The rates, charges, tolls or other fees established pursuant to this section, if unpaid, shall constitute a lien against the property served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same terms as a lien for city property taxes.
(Ord. No. 97-42, § 1, 11-11-97)
State constitution reference—Revenue bonds for gas or electric system extending beyond county, Art. 9, § 6, Par. 2.
State Law reference— Revenue Bond Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.
Sec. 5.12. - Sewers and drains.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to provide for the establishment, extension and maintenance of a system of sewers and drains, together with a sewage disposal system. This power includes the authority to extend said system beyond the corporate limits. For those purposes, the City of LaGrange is granted the power of eminent domain both within and without its corporate limits. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for reasonable connection fees for tapping onto the water and sewer lines of said city and may compel citizens to tap into the same when such service is made available. They may cause said connections to be made when the owners refuse, and issue executions for the amount so expended, which execution[s] shall be special liens on the property connected with said water and sewerage systems from the date of the order of connection.
State constitution reference—Power of city to provide storm water and sewage collection and disposal systems, Art. 9, § 2, Par. 3.
State Law reference— Eminent domain, O.C.G.A. Title 22.
Sec. 5.13. - Right-of-way.
The City of LaGrange shall have the right, easement and franchise of laying the necessary mains, pipes, conduits and drains for waterworks and sewerage system purposes along the highways in the County of Troup without cost; it shall have full power and authority to enact and enforce such rules, regulation[s] and ordinances as may be necessary to protect the water basin and watershed, from which the water supply is taken, from contamination and to protect said waterworks and sewerage system, including the mains, pipes, and conduits[,] whether the same be situated within or without the corporate limits of said city.
Sec. 5.14. - Eminent domain.
The mayor and council are hereby empowered to acquire, construct, build, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements or purposes inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be taken under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, subject to such amendments as shall be enacted thereto or under any power or procedure of eminent domain now or hereafter provided by the General Assembly of Georgia.
Editor's note— Section 36-202, cited above, has been repealed. See O.C.G.A. Title 22.
Sec. 5.15. - Cable television; eminent domain.
(a)
The general assembly finds and determines that:
(1)
Cable television is the general term used to specify the production, transport, and delivery of locally and remotely originated video programming or signals to consumers. It includes any process that enables or permits the passage of information from a sender to one (1) or more receivers in the form of fixed or moving pictures, with or without accompanying visible or audible signals, by means of any electromagnetic or photonic system such as electrical transmission by wire, coaxial cable, radio waves, optical transmission, guided waves, and the like;
(2)
It is necessary and desirable that the mayor and council of the City of LaGrange have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell, resell, build, and maintain or operate, or both, any system of cable television or any cable television service, or any combination of such system and services; to establish rates and charge fees for services rendered or facilities provided; to exchange said services or facilities for services or facilities of like kind or value; to add value by switching, processing, storing, transforming, or in any manner acting upon the content of the information being communicated; to interconnect its systems or services, or both, with the systems or services, or both, of consumers and other providers; to use cable television to encourage the development of information based organizations in LaGrange; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of Georgia; to exercise the power of eminent domain with regard to any of said systems, both within and outside the corporate limits; and to contract to furnish the services of any of said systems to consumers within or outside the corporate limits of the City of LaGrange;
(3)
The cable television function of the city will serve and is intended to and may serve the following purposes, among others: community antenna television; broadcast radio and television; network, independent, and superstation programming; narrowcasting; open and closed captioning and other special services for the handicapped; subcarrier services; entertainment programming; professional and amateur sports events; pay-per-view video; public broadcasting; public access programming; public affairs programming; televising city council or other governmental meetings, or any combination thereof; public library programming; foreign language programming; religious and inspirational programming; background music; weather map and graphic information; credited college courses; adult education; instructional programming; distance learning; audiographics; telemedicine; imaging; teleconferencing; local, regional, and national advertising; consumer information service programming; home shopping; use response polling; straw voting; business news; newswire; securities quotations; bulletin boards; emergency alerting; and time and weather announcements; and
(4)
The exercise of the cable television function by the City of LaGrange is a proper exercise of its public powers and is a public purpose for which the power of eminent domain may be exercised.
(b)
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell, resell, build, and maintain or operate, or both, any system of cable television or any cable television services; to establish rates and charge fees therefor; to exchange services or facilities for services or facilities of like kind; to add value by switching, processing, storing, transforming, or in any manner acting upon the content of the information being communicated; to interconnect its systems or services, or both, with the systems or services, or both, of consumers and other providers; to use cable television to encourage the development of information based organizations in LaGrange; to finance any of said systems through appropriate bond issues in accordance with the laws of Georgia; to exercise the power of eminent domain with regard to any of said systems, both within and outside the corporate limits; and to contract to furnish the services of any of said systems to consumers within or outside the corporate limits of the City of LaGrange.
(c)
In furtherance of the exercise of the powers conferred and granted in this section relating to the operation of a cable television system, the mayor and council shall have the right and authority to finance any of said systems through issuance of bonds for such purposes in accordance with the laws of Georgia and to further exercise the power of eminent domain and to acquire property, both real and personal, by the exercise of such right of eminent domain both inside and outside the corporate limits of the City of LaGrange and to exercise such right of eminent domain in accordance with and pursuant to the appropriate laws of the State of Georgia enacted for that purpose.
(Ga. Laws 1993, Act No. 120, § 1)
[Sec. 5.16. - Reserved.]
Sec. 5.17. - Telecommunications.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, lease, sell, resell, build, maintain, operate and contract with respect to a telecommunications system network in order to provide telecommunications services and similar other services, to establish and charge rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished or made available by such undertaking or undertakings; to interconnect its system or services or both with the systems or services of consumers and other providers; to use telecommunications to respond to community needs, encourage the development of information based organizations in the City of LaGrange, to finance from time to time any such telecommunications systems through the issuance of revenue bonds as then permitted by the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia; and to make any contract with respect to and furnish the services of any said systems to consumers within or outside the corporate limits of the city.
All actions taken prior to the adoption of this resolution and charter amendment relative to the acquisition, development, operation and management, and contracting with respect to telecommunications systems networks for the City of LaGrange were taken with the concurrence of the mayor and council of the City of LaGrange and are hereby ratified.
(Ord. No. 97-42, § 2, 11-11-97)
Article II - REGULATORY FUNCTIONS

Sec. 5.20. - Power to regulate and license.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to provide by ordinance for the registration and licensing of any trade, business, occupation, vocation, profession or any and every other undertaking pursued for the purpose of personal gain or profit of whatever nature, engaged in or carried on within the limits of the City of LaGrange, regardless [of] whether or not the subject has an office or establishment within said city. The mayor and council shall be authorized to fix the amount, terms, and manner of issuing and revoking licenses, provided that this authority is subject to the constitutions and laws of the United States and the State of Georgia. This power is conferred for the purpose of regulation under the police powers of the city and for the purpose of raising revenue for the operation of the city government through the imposition of a tax or fee on the privilege of operating within the city. This authority extends over individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations and their agents.
Cross reference— Authority of city to levy occupation tax, § 4.15.
Sec. 5.21. - Franchises.
The mayor and council shall have authority to exercise control over the use of streets of the City of LaGrange. The power is hereby conferred upon the mayor and council to grant franchises for the use of said city's streets and alleys, for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone and gas companies, electric companies, ambulance companies, taxicabs, community antenna television companies, and transportation companies. This franchise right extends to, but is not limited to, the erection of poles, stringing of wires, laying of pipe, lines or conduits both above and below the surface. The mayor and council shall determine the duration, provisions, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration of such franchises; provided, however, that no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of twenty (20) years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The mayor and council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the assistant city manager in the registration book to be kept by him. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 1, 12-13-16)
Editor's note— O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7) authorizes cities to grant franchises for such time as the governing authority deems wise, subject to the constitution and general laws of the state.
Sec. 5.22. - Planning and zoning.
(a)
The mayor and council of the City of LaGrange may, in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity or general welfare, adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the districting or zoning of the city for the purposes of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings, or other uses of property; or for the purpose of regulating the height of buildings, fences or other structures; or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or structures near street frontages. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one (1) or more of the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area[,] as the mayor and council of said city shall deem best to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations; in the determination and establishment of districts and regulations, classifications may be based on the nature or character of the trade, industry or profession or other activity conducted or to be conducted upon the premises; the number of persons, families or other group units to reside in or use said building; the public, quasi-public or private nature of the use of premises; upon any other bases [basis] or bases relevant to the promotion of the public health, safety, order, morals, convenience, prosperity or welfare.
(b)
The mayor and council of the City of LaGrange may by ordinance elect to use the powers and authority granted in the general laws of Georgia and any amendments thereto (General Planning Enabling Act of 1957, Ga. L 1957, p. 420, as amended) for the preparation and amendment of overall plans for the orderly growth and development of said city; providing for the regulation of the subdivision of land; and for providing for the regulation of structures in mapped streets, public building sites, and public open spaces.
Editor's note— The act cited in the above section is repealed.
State constitution reference—Planning and zoning, Art. 9, § 2, Par. 4.
Sec. 5.23. - Building, electrical, gas and plumbing regulations.
The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to enact such reasonable rules and regulations as they may deem necessary or expedient regarding the construction of buildings, remodeling of buildings, plumbing, gas installation, and electrical wiring and equipping of buildings, in order to promote the safety and welfare of its citizens and to guard against fire or other property damage. This power may, in the discretion of the mayor and council, be exercised by adoption of any such standard building, electrical, gas and plumbing codes as may be deemed appropriate. The mayor and council shall be empowered to engage the necessary personnel to enforce such rules and regulations as adopted, and to charge reasonable fees for inspection and permits; and may require the obtaining of a permit as a condition precedent to any construction, building, gas, electrical or plumbing work. The mayor and council may enact all ordinances necessary to enforce such rules and regulations.
Sec. 5.24. - Abatement of nuisance.
The mayor and council are hereby empowered to define a nuisance in the City of LaGrange and to provide for its abatement. The recorder of the City of LaGrange shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings therein. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any law of this state or any ordinance of the City of LaGrange, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten (10) days after written notice from said city to do so. The mayor and council may by ordinance provide for the issuance of an execution for the expense of abatement which shall be a lien upon the property on which such nuisance existed.
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. Title 41; abatement of nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
