Article III - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR SEWER USE AND PROTECTION OF THE WATER SUPPLY

Sec. 20-15-101. - Policies and procedures; development, effect, availability.
(a)
The department of utilities of the city is authorized and directed to prepare and promulgate policies and procedures relating to control of the sewer system and the water system so as to enforce backflow prevention and cross-connection controls applicable thereto. Such policies and procedures when developed and after approval and adoption by the mayor and council at a regular meeting shall be enforced and shall have the same effect as laws and ordinances of the city. A copy of the policies and procedures as adopted and as hereafter amended by the mayor and council shall be maintained by and in the office of the assistant city manager and shall be available for inspection.
(b)
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the provisions of this article shall upon conviction be punished as provided in section 1-1-6 of this Code; provided, however, that each day the violation continues shall be a separate violation under the terms of this article.
(c)
In addition to the punishment provided for in section 1-1-6 of this Code, the director of the department of utilities of the city, or his designee, may discontinue any connection to the public water supply service at any premises connected to the LaGrange Water Supply System, whether located within the corporate limits of the city or in the unincorporated area of Troup County, upon which there is found to be an uncontrolled cross-connection, auxiliary intake, bypass or interconnection and service shall not be restored thereto until such uncontrolled cross-connection, auxiliary intake, bypass or interconnection has been discontinued.
(Ord. No. 87-76, § 1, 5-12-87; Ord. No. 90-12, § 1, 3-27-90; Ord. No. 02-29, § 4, 9-24-02; Ord. No. 07-12, § 5, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-12, § 6, 12-13-16)
Sec. 20-15-102. - Backflow prevention devices; installation and testing.
(a)
In the event a water customer fails to install an appropriate backflow prevention device required under the city backflow prevention and cross-connection control regulations, the city, after providing notice of its intent, may install or cause said device to be installed and the cost therefore, plus an administrative fee of twenty dollars ($20.00), shall be charged on said customer's utility bill.
(b)
In the event a water customer that is required to have such a backflow prevention device tested annually under the backflow prevention and cross-connection control regulations of the city fails to do so, the city, after providing notice of it's intent, may test or cause to be tested such device, and the cost therefore, in addition to a twenty dollar ($20.00) administrative fee, shall be charged to said customer's utility account.
(c)
Failure to pay any charges properly invoiced on a city utility account pursuant to the terms of the City Code may result in discontinuation of all city utilities to the customer.
(Ord. No. 05-17, § 1, 10-11-05)
Secs. 20-15-103—20-15-119. - Reserved.
