DIVISION I. - PURPOSE AND ORGANIZATION
ARTICLE 1. - ENACTMENT

Sec. 1-1. - Enactment.
new
For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the City of Palmetto, Georgia, hereinafter referred to as "the city," and the citizens thereof, the mayor and council of the city, under authority of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, hereby ordain and enact into law the following articles and sections. It is the intent of the mayor and council that these articles and sections remain in force and effect under said constitution and amendments thereto.
ARTICLE 2. - TITLE AND PURPOSE

Sec. 2-1. - Short title.
new
This ordinance shall be known as "The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Palmetto, Georgia" and may be cited as such.
Sec. 2-2. - Purpose.
new
The provisions of this ordinance are intended, among other things, to protect the lands, water and other natural resources of the city by encouraging uses that are best suited to the capabilities and characteristics of those resources and limiting their improper use; to promote orderly development in accordance with the city's comprehensive plan; to facilitate economical municipal water and sewer services, adequate traffic capacity, recreational areas, schools and other public requirements; to provide adequate light, air and healthful conditions in residential, commercial and industrial areas; to promote convenient and safe access; to protect against fire and other dangers; to avoid undue concentrations of people by regulating the height and bulk of buildings; to establish and require yards, courts and other open spaces; to regulate and restrict the location of all uses, trades, industries and buildings in relation to safe traffic and pedestrian movement; and to achieve stability in the expenditure of funds for public improvements and services. As they are interpreted and applied, the provisions of this ordinance shall be the minimum requirements adopted to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
Sec. 2-3. - Scope.
new
A.
No building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be erected, constructed, renovated, altered or maintained and no new use shall be made of any building or land except in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
B.
Any building or structure which is erected, repaired, altered or converted, or any use of premises or land which is begun or changed subsequent to the time of passage of this ordinance and in violation of any of the provisions thereof is hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se and may be abated by order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
C.
Nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction or use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance; provided the construction is completed within two years of the effective date of this ordinance.
D.
The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to all buildings, structures and uses in any zoning district, unless otherwise noted.
E.
The regulations established by this ordinance shall be the minimum necessary and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure, land or use.
F.
This ordinance shall apply to all areas within the incorporated limits of the City of Palmetto. Land uses and buildings shall also be subject to all other ordinances of the city.
ARTICLE 3. - RULES OF CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 3-1. - Rules of construction.
new
In the application and interpretation of this ordinance, the following rules shall apply:
A.
The particular shall control the general.
B.
The phrase "used for" includes arranged for, designed for, intended for, maintained for and occupied for.
C.
A building or structure includes any of its parts.
D.
Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the conjunctions "and," "or" or "either... or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows:
1.
"And" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
2.
"Or" indicates the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.
3.
"Either...or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
E.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
F.
Words used in the singular number shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
G.
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word "may" is permissive.
H.
In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this ordinance and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
I.
Terms not defined in the ordinance shall have the meaning customarily assigned them.
