Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; local regulation of alcohol generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine, or fortified wine as defined in this section.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruit, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer, distiller, brewer, vintner, rectifier, blender, or bottler of an alcoholic beverage.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership cooperative, non-profit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasi-public.
Retail dealer means any person who sell distilled spirits in unbroken packages at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Wholesaler means any person who sells distilled spirits to other wholesale dealers or retail dealers.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 4-2. - Retail dealer licenses; applications; notice; fingerprints; bonds; restrictions; standards; hearing.
(a)
The businesses of manufacturing, distribution, selling, handling, and otherwise dealing in or possessing alcoholic beverages are declared to be privileges and not rights; and such privileges shall not be exercised in the City except as licensed under the terms of this chapter.
(b)
Application for a retail dealer's license shall be made on forms furnished by the City Council. A notice of each application shall be advertised in the official gazette of the City, once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting of the City Council in which the application is to be acted upon.
(c)
Each applicant shall furnish a complete set of fingerprints which shall be forwarded to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation who shall search the files of the Georgia Crime Information Center for a period of two years immediately preceding the date of such application for any instance of criminal activity. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall also submit such fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under rules established by the United States Department of Justice for processing and identification of records. The federal record, if any, shall be obtained and returned to the City Council considering such application.
(d)
Applicants must post with the City Council, along with their application, a personal performance bond, said bond to be conditioned upon the faithful observance and performance by the licensee of the rules and regulations contained in this chapter. Upon the violation of this chapter, or any part thereof, the amount of the bond to be forfeited will be determined by the City Council in accordance with the nature of the violation or after a hearing is held by the said City Council. Written notice of such hearing shall be given to the alleged violation after a hearing is held by the said City Council. Written notice of such hearing shall be given to the alleged violator not less than 15 days prior thereto. The determination by the City Council to forfeit such bond may be in addition to any action taken by the City Council under Section 4-20. Said bond shall be payable to the City of Ocilla, in the amount of $5,000.00, said bond to be approved by the City Council and shall be executed in the form specified by the City Council. However, nothing herein shall preclude the City Council from waiving said bond requirement whenever a licensee has established sufficient financial responsibility and/or a record of faithful compliance with the laws and regulations of the United States of America, the State, and the City.
(e)
No retail dealer's license shall be granted to any person, unless such person is of legal age and has been a resident of the County, for a minimum of two years immediately preceding the filing of an application for such license; same requirements for a corporation.
(f)
Only one retail dealer licenses shall be issued to any one person in the City, and no person who holds one retail dealer licenses or has a beneficial interest in a retail dealer license in any other County or municipality in the State, shall be eligible to receive a retail dealer's license. The terms "person" and "beneficial interest" shall have the same meaning as used in O.C.G.A. § 3-4-21.
(g)
No City employee or elected official of the City shall be eligible to receive a retail dealer's license.
(h)
The following standards shall be applied to all decisions pertaining to the issuance or denial of licenses hereunder:
(1)
All applicants for a retail dealers license must show financial responsibility. The City Council may require all applicants to provide financial statements and other evidence of financial responsibility in conjunction with the application.
(2)
All applicants for a retail dealer's license must be of good character, and all operators, managers, clerks, or other employees shall be of like character. Corporate or firm applicants shall be of good business reputation.
(3)
No license shall be granted to an applicant who has been convicted under and federal, State, or local law for a criminal offense involving alcoholic beverages, gambling, or tax law violations if such conviction tends to indicate that the applicant would not maintain the operation for which a license is being sought in conformity with federal, State or the laws of the City.
(4)
A license application may be denied to any applicant for a retail dealer's license where it appears that the applicant would not have adequate financial participation in the proposed business to direct and manage its affairs, or where it appears that the applicant is intended to be a mere surrogate for a person or persons who would not otherwise qualify for a license for any reason whatsoever.
(5)
The City Council, in its discretion, may consider extenuation circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application or the proposed location of the business. If in their judgment circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstance may be grounds for denying the application.
(i)
All decisions of the City Council either approving or denying a license application shall be stated in writing and a copy of such statement shall be provided to the applicant either personally or by certified mail.
(j)
Whenever the City Council shall deny an application for a retail dealer's license, the applicant shall have 15 days following notification of denial to request a hearing before the City Council. The applicant shall be entitled at such hearing to present evidence and cross-examine opposing witnesses.
(k)
A corporate license applicant shall appoint and designate to the City Council an agent authorized to receive service of process under the laws of the State.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 3)
Sec. 4-3. - Premises.
No retail dealer's license shall be issue to any person unless the building in which the business will be located in complete and detailed plans of said building and outside premises are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specification and a building permit for a proposed building to be built or renovated are attached to the application. The complete building or the proposed building shall comply with ordinances of the City, regulations of the State Revenue Commissioner and the laws of the State. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval when completed by the Building Inspector. Each such building shall contain sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times from the street on which the building is located so as to reveal the inside retail area of the building and so as to reveal all of the outside premises of said building. Each applicant for a retail dealer's license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 4)
Sec. 4-4. - Distance requirements.
No retail dealer's license shall be granted to any person unless the front door of the premises of the proposed location is situated not less than 100 yards from any church building, not less than 200 yards from the property line of any school ground or college campus, and not less than 100 yards from any building used as an alcohol rehabilitation center, the same to be measured by the most direct route of travel on the ground. Each application for a retail dealer's license shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest church building, school ground or campus, or alcohol rehabilitation center, or certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this chapter with reference to this section.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 5)
Sec. 4-5. - Term of license: renewal.
A retail dealer's license shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon and no such license may be renewed except upon approval of the City Council. A licensee who desires to continue in business during a subsequent calendar year must make a new application for such year prior to November 1 of the year in which the current license expires.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 6)
Sec. 4-6. - License fees.
(a)
The annual fee for retail dealer's license for liquor and whiskey (distilled spirits) shall be in the amount established by the City, for the operation beginning on January 1, or during the first six months of the calendar year, and one-half the amount if the license is issued during the last months of the calendar year.
(b)
The annual fee for retail dealer's license for wines shall be in the amount established by the City for the operation beginning on January 1, or during the first six months of the calendar year, and one-half the amount if the license is issued during the last six months of the license year.
(c)
The annual fee for retail dealer's license for malt beverages, by the package, shall be in the amount established by the City, for the operation beginning on January 1, or during the first six months of the calendar year, and the amount established by the City if the license is issue during the last six months of the license year.
(d)
The annual fee for retail dealers of license for malt beverage to be consumed on the premises shall be in the amount established by the City, and like amount for any fractional part of a year, beginning January 1, 1988.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 7)
Sec. 4-7. - Excise tax.
There is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate of $0.22 per liter which shall be paid to the City Council on all distilled spirits and wines sold in the City. Such tax shall be paid to the City Council by the wholesaler on all distilled spirits and wines sold to retail dealers in the City, as follows: Each wholesaler selling, shipping, or in any way delivering distilled spirits or wine to any retail dealer, shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery to each retail dealer on or before the 15th day of the month following. The $0.22 per liter rate shall be prorate so that all containers of distilled spirits or wine shall be taxed on the basis of $0.22 per liter. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any wholesaler to sell, ship or deliver in any manner any distilled spirits or wine to a retail dealer without collecting said tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any retail dealer to possess, own, hold, store, display, or sell any distilled spirits or wine on which such tax has not been paid. Each wholesaler shall be paid three percent of the amount of taxes collected as reimbursement for collection of said tax. The levy and tax on malt beverages shall be set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80 and as may be hereafter amended, and the payment of said tax shall be in accordance with provisions of O.C.G.A. title 3 (O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.).
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 8)
State Law reference— Excise taxes, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-4-80, 3-6-60, 3-5-80.
Sec. 4-8. - Sales in unbroken package only; minimum package size.
All licensed retail dealers shall sell in the original unbroken package only and shall sell no package containing less than 200 milliliters. Except such licensee that holds a valid license to sell malt beverages for on premises consumption shall be able to sell malt beverage on tap.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 9)
Sec. 4-9. - Wine pouring and service by the drink.
(a)
Upon the approval of City Council, wine may be served by the drink in restaurants with a minimum seating capacity of 30 patrons, excluding bar arrangements.
(b)
Seventy percent of the establishment gross sales must be derived from the sale of prepared food served on the premises annually.
(c)
The annual license fee for wine pouring by the drink shall be as established by the City, payable annually by January 1 of each year; any license purchased after six months of any given year has expired shall be one-half of the annual fee, as established by the City.
(d)
The licensed establishment shall furnish the City with an accountability of the food service sales and wine drink sales on an annual basis and/or upon the request of the City.
(Code 2003, § 6-1022; Ord. of 10-5-2004)
Sec. 4-10. - Products for sale.
(a)
No retail dealer for distilled spirits shall keep in stock, display, sell, or offer to sell, at any place of business licensed hereunder, any other product or commodity except the following:
(1)
Wines, when properly licensed;
(2)
Malt beverages, when properly licensed;
(3)
Beverages containing no alcohol commonly used to dilute distilled spirits, and not to be opened on the premises;
(4)
Tobacco products;
(5)
Ice to be sold in sealed containers only and not to be opened on the premises; and
(6)
Paper, Styrofoam or plastic cups.
Beverages containing no alcohol and commonly used to dilute distilled spirits may be dispensed through the use of vending machines, but no alcoholic beverages shall be dispensed through such vending machines.
(b)
Licenses shall be issued only for off premises consumption except for licensees holding valid licenses for on premises consumption of malt beverages.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 10)
Sec. 4-11. - Place of sale or delivery of goods.
No retail dealer shall sell or deliver any alcoholic beverages to any person except in said retail dealer's place of business. A retail dealer shall be permitted to load purchased goods in a customer's vehicle when the sale physically takes place and moneys have been exchanged inside the place of business. A retail dealer licensee hereunder shall be permitted to have a drive-in window and it shall be permissible for the licensee or licensee's employees to deliver alcoholic beverages through such window. Curb service type sales and sales to customers in vehicles parked in the parking area of the business are prohibited.
(1)
There shall be prominently posted in the place of business, clearly visible to customers, at least two notices in letters at least two inches high, the following language:
NOTICE
Do not open alcoholic beverage containers on these premises. Under the law, these products cannot be consumed on these premises.
(2)
No licensee shall advertise the sale of alcoholic beverages by the use of posters, signs, billboards, loudspeakers or other public displays or devices; provided, however, nothing herein shall prevent the use of posters or signs or similar devices for advertisement of alcoholic beverages within the licensee's place of business provided said posters, signs or similar devices are not prominently visible from outside the place of business.
(3)
Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation for cause of the license by the Council.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 11)
Sec. 4-12. - Hours of operation.
No retail dealer shall be in his place of business, or open his place of business, or furnish, sell or offer for sale any alcoholic beverages at any of the following times:
(1)
At any time on Christmas Day or Sundays;
(2)
At any time in violation of a local ordinance or regulation or of a special order of the City Council;
(3)
On any day before 8:00 a.m. or after 11:45 p.m.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 12)
State Law reference— Sale of alcohol on Sunday, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 4-13. - Furnishing distilled spirits to certain persons prohibited.
No retail dealer licensed hereunder shall furnish, sell or offer any distilled spirits to any person who is of unsound mind, or who is a habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to said licensee.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 15)
State Law reference— Furnishing alcoholic beverages to intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22.
Sec. 4-14. - Retail dealers to buy only from licensed wholesalers.
No licensed retail dealer shall buy or arrange to buy or in any way effect the transfer of any distilled spirits or alcoholic beverage except from a licensed wholesaler.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 16)
Sec. 4-15. - Retail dealers to store inventory only on premises.
A licensed retail dealer shall keep no inventory or stock of distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages at any place except the licensed place of business, and within the licensed place of business the storage area for alcoholic beverages shall be immediately adjacent to the retail area. No licensed retail dealer shall enter any type of arrangement whereby distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages ordered by the retail dealer are stored by a licensed wholesaler.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 17)
Sec. 4-16. - Licenses not transferable.
No retail dealer's license issued hereunder shall be transferable or assignable to any other person and in the event that a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender the license to the City Council. Any transfer of the license to different premises requires the prior written approval of the City Council.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 18)
Sec. 4-17. - Display of license.
Licenses issued under this chapter shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which same was issued.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 19)
Sec. 4-18. - Licensees to maintain a copy of the chapter; employees to be familiar with terms; responsibility of licensee for violations.
Each licensed retail dealer hereunder shall keep a copy of this chapter in the licensed premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms hereof and each licensee, the licensee's agents and employees selling alcoholic beverages shall at all times be familiar with the terms hereof. The licensee shall be responsible for any acts of agents or employees which are violation of this chapter or of the laws of the State or the rules and regulations of the State Revenue Commissioner.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 20)
Sec. 4-19. - Premises open for inspection.
The business premises of a licensed retail dealer hereunder shall be open to inspection at any and all times by officers or officials representing the City Council authorized to conduct such inspections.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 21)
Sec. 4-20. - Gambling on premises prohibited.
There shall be no gambling, betting, games of chance, punchboard, slot machines, pin-ball machines, or the operation of any scheme for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any place of business licensed under this chapter, or in any room adjoining the same owned, leased or controlled by a licensee, except for those establishments licensed to sell malt beverages. Any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of a license.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 22)
Sec. 4-21. - Grounds for suspension or revocation of license.
(a)
No person shall engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the City without first complying with the rules and requirements set out in this chapter. Any license issued hereunder shall be subject to suspension or revocation upon any of the following grounds:
(1)
The making of any statement and application for a license issued hereunder which shall be later found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of such license;
(2)
All licenses issued hereunder are conditioned upon faithful compliance with the rules and regulations set out in this chapter, and the laws and regulations of the United States and the State;
(3)
Whenever it can be shown that a licensee hereunder no longer maintains adequate financial responsibility upon which issuance of the license was conditioned or whenever the licensee has defaulted in any obligation, of any kind whatsoever, lawfully owing to the City;
(4)
Suspension or revocation of a State retail dealer's license shall automatically operate to suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder;
(5)
Any violation of Section 4-19; or
(6)
For any other legal and sufficient cause.
(b)
Any action taken by the City Council to suspend or revoke a license issued hereunder, shall not preclude and may be in addition to, any criminal prosecution by a proper authority as provided by the laws and ordinances of the City, the State, or the United States. Whenever any action is taken by the City Council to suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder, the City Council shall provide written notice to the licensee of the action taken and stating the reasons therefor. The licensee shall have 15 days following notification of such action to request a hearing before the City Council. The licensee shall be entitled at such hearing to present evidence and cross-examine opposing witnesses.
( Ord. of 7-21-2009 , § 23)
