ARTICLE III. - ZONING DISTRICTS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 54-219. - Establishment of districts.
In order that the purposes of this chapter, as defined in Article I of this chapter, may be accomplished, there are hereby established within the City, zoning districts identified as follows:
(1)
S-A Suburban Agriculture. The purpose of this district is to permit low intensity agricultural uses in those areas where the City has yet to extend urban services and encourage development for needed urban area expansion. The preferred land uses in the district are agricultural, either active in the form of crops, or passive in the form of forest management or pasturelands. The S-A District should be utilized as a land use designation where a more intensive urban use of the land is unlikely to occur in the near future. The requirements of the district are designed to encourage the continuing low intensity agricultural use of the property and protect active urban uses found in adjacent districts of the City.
(2)
R-14 Single-Family Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide single-family residential areas with minimum lot sizes of 14,000 square feet, said areas being protected from the depreciating effects of small lot development and excessive density and from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
(3)
R-8 Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide residential areas with a minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet, said areas being protected from uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
(4)
M-R Multiple Residential. The purpose of this district is to provide orderly development of higher density residential areas for multifamily dwellings, with minimum lot sizes of 6,000 square feet, said areas being protected from the encroachment of those uses which are incompatible to a desirable residential environment.
(5)
R-8-M Residential. The purpose of this district is to create an area, that in addition to conventional housing, allows manufactured housing as a matter of right in a conventional subdivision. Lots in this district must have a minimum of 8,000 square feet. These districts shall be protected from the encroachment of incompatible uses which are detrimental to a sound residential environment.
(6)
M-H-P Manufactured Housing Park. The purpose of this district is to provide for the development of property that is suitably located and planned for mobile home park use. Property developed in this district is to remain in single ownership for rental purposes only. Manufactured housing parks shall be developed only in strict accordance with the manufacturing housing park provisions of this chapter.
(7)
R-P Residential Professional. The purpose of this mixed-use district is to protect the residential base while allowing non-sales service commercial/office uses which complement the residential neighborhood.
(8)
N-C Neighborhood Commercial District. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect convenient areas for neighborhood shopping facilities.
(9)
G-B General Business District. The purpose of this district shall be to provide for an encourage the proper grouping and development of uses which include a wide variety of sales and services that will best accommodate the needs of the City and the traveling public in order to reduce highway traffic congestion, traffic hazards, and blight along the public streets and highways of the City.
(10)
C-B-D Central Business District. The purpose of this district shall be to accommodate development which will include a wide variety of sales and services which locate in the City's historical central business district. Due to the unique design of this district to serve the special needs of the City's historical Central Business District, applications for this zoning designation will not be accepted.
(11)
WLI Wholesale-Light Industrial District. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those wholesale and light industrial uses which do not create excessive noise, odor, smoke, dust, and which do not possess other objectionable characteristics which might be detrimental to surrounding neighborhoods, or to the other uses permitted in the district.
(12)
H-I Heavy Industrial District. The purpose of this district shall be to provide and protect areas for those industrial uses which cannot comply with the regulations of the WLI District.
(13)
C-A Adult Commercial. The purpose of this district shall be to provide a reasonable location within the community for the development of adult-oriented businesses including adult entertainment establishments.
(Code 2003, § 8-3051; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 4-1)
Sec. 54-220. - Official Zoning Map and Major Thoroughfare Plan.
(a)
The boundaries of each district are shown on a map entitled "Official Zoning Map, City of Ocilla, Georgia." The classifications of streets (local and collector streets and arterials) are indicated on a map entitled "Major Thoroughfare Plan, City of Ocilla, Georgia." The "Official Zoning Map, City of Ocilla, Georgia" and "Major Thoroughfare Plan, City of Ocilla, Georgia," shall be dated and certified by the Mayor and City Clerk, and said maps and all explanatory matter thereon accompanies and are hereby made a part of this chapter.
(b)
Accurate copies of the "Official Zoning Map, City of Ocilla, Georgia" and "Major Thoroughfare Plan, City of Ocilla, Georgia," shall be on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator at all times. Said maps shall accurately show all map amendments made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to ensure that the Official Zoning Map and Major Thoroughfare Plan displayed in the Administrator's office are kept up-to-date and accurately show all amendments.
(Code 2003, § 8-3052; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 4-2)
Sec. 54-221. - Interpretation of zoning district boundaries.
When uncertainty exists with respect to the location of boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the "Official Zoning Map, City of Ocilla," the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Unless otherwise specifically indicated, where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as approximately following the centerline of a street right-of-way, highway, railroad right-of-way line, streambed, or riverbed; such centerlines shall be interpreted to be such district boundaries.
(2)
Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall be interpreted as following such lot lines.
(3)
Where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as approximately following the corporate limit lines, then such corporate limit lines shall be interpreted to be such district boundaries.
(4)
Where district boundaries are indicated on the zoning map as being set back from the centerline of a street right-of-way, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river, and parallel thereto, then such district boundaries, unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be interpreted as being at the scaled distance from the centerline of such street, road, highway, railroad, stream, or river as being parallel thereto.
(Code 2003, § 8-3053; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 4-3)
Sec. 54-222. - Table of permitted uses.
Within the various zoning districts as indicated on the "Official Zoning Map, City of Ocilla," no building, structure, or land shall be constructed, erected, altered, or used except as indicated in the following schedules:
(1)
Uses permitted by right. Uses permitted as a matter of right are indicated on the following schedule by the letter "X" in the appropriate column.
(2)
Special exception. Uses permitted only after review and approval of the City Council are indicated on the following schedule by the letters "SE" in the appropriate column. Requests to approve a use by special exception shall be advertised, reviewed and processed in the same manner as an amendment to the Official Zoning Maps as described in Article II, Division 4, amendments.
(3)
Uses not allowed. Uses not specifically designated by an "X" or "SE" within the appropriate column are not allowed within the district.
(4)
Conflict of use interpretation. In the event of a discrepancy between the various provisions of this chapter as relates to a particular use of land being allowed in a particular zoning district, this section shall govern.
EXPAND
Zoning District
Land Use S-A R-14 R-8 R-8-M M-R M-H-P R-P N-C G-B C-B-D WLI H-I C-A
Residential and Related Uses
1. Accessory buildings or uses X X X X X X X X X X X X
2. Animals X X X X X
a. Noncommercial keeping of horses as an accessory use to residential land uses, provided that in R-14, R-8, R-8-M, and M-R zones:
1) Shall only be permitted on a lot containing not less than 2 acres;
2) All buildings used to house the animals shall be set back not less than 150 feet from any property line;
3) All animals shall be maintained at least 50 feet from any property line except property lines adjoining an S-A zone; and
4) There shall be not less than 30,000 square feet of fenced lot area not covered by the principle structure for each animal.
b. Kennel, noncommercial, as an accessory use to residential land uses provided that: X X X X X X X X
1) Minimum lot size of 1 acre;
2) All buildings used to house the animals shall be set back 100 feet from any property line.
3. Boardinghouse or roominghouse SE X X X
4. Church or other place of worship, including Sunday school buildings, parish houses, convents, nursery school, kindergartens (subject to developmental standards listed at uses item # 19) and other related uses on the same premises and operated by the church provided that within R-14, R-8, R-8-M and M-R zones: X X X X X X X X X
a) The lot size shall be no less than 2 acres;
b) Any building or structure established with any such use shall have minimum side and rear yards of 50 feet; and
c) Lot must front collector or arterial street.
5. Dwelling, single-family X X X X X SE X
6. Dwelling, two-family (duplex) X X X X X
7. Residential group development projects (see Section 54-316) X
8. Dwelling, multifamily (see Section 54-317) X
9. Family personal care home X X X X X
10. Reserved
11. Garage apartment, provided no more than one shall be permitted on a lot with the principal dwelling, and provided such shall be permitted only within the rear yard. The lot on which such use is to be established must be 50 percent greater in lot area than the minimum standard lot size for the respective district. X X X X X
12. Group personal care home, provided that: X X X X X
a) Minimum lot size of 1 acre in all residential zones;
b) Parking is restricted to rear and side yard and shall be screened per Section 54-23.
13. Guest quarters or servant's quarters, provided no more than 1 shall be permitted on a lot with the principal building and provided such shall be permitted only within the rear yard. The lot on which such use is to be established must be 50 percent greater in lot area than the minimum standard lot size for the respective district. X X X X X X
14. Home occupation (see Sections 54-314 and 54-315) X SE SE SE SE SE X X X X X X
15. Manufactured home, provided that: X X
a) The manufactured home shall meet the same minimum square footage, setback and yard requirements as any other single-family dwelling; and
b) Must be installed and anchored as per State minimum requirements, properly underpinned and skirted within 45 days with materials comparable to the proposed manufactured home.
16. Manufactured housing park, provided that: X
a) Access to manufactured housing parks shall be by paved public street and either on or within 1,000 feet of and readily accessible to a principal or minor arterial, or collector street as designated on the Major Thoroughfare Plan; and
b) The manufactured housing park meets the requirements of Section 54-318.
17. Public owned recreation centers, Y.M.C.A. and institutions of a similar nature. SE SE SE SE SE X X X X
18. Schools, public or private—Elementary through high school. SE SE SE SE SE X
19. Schools—Kindergartens, nurseries, and day care centers, provided that: SE SE SE SE SE X X X
a) Off-street loading and unloading spaces are supplied; and
b) At least 100 square feet of outdoor play area is supplied for each child accommodated; and
c) The entire play area is enclosed by a steel mesh security fence or other substantial building material affording equal or better protection having a minimum height of at least 4 feet and constructed in such a manner that maximum safety to the children is ensured.
20. Tourist homes (bed and breakfast) SE SE X X X
Business Uses
21. Adult entertainment establishments, provided that: X
a) No adult entertainment establishment shall advertise its location by signs more than 6 inches in height placed on the front of the building which shall state the name of the business and hours of operation only.
b) No adult entertainment establishment shall advertise its location with flashing or other kinds of lights, signs, banners, or other devices, intended to attract the attention of the general public to its location.
c) Adult bookstores shall maintain all windows in a clear unobstructed manner so as to provide an open and unobstructed view through the interior of the bookstore. X X X
d) Adult movie houses shall maintain all windows in a clear and unobstructed manner, so that the entire reception area, lobby, ticket sales area of the theater is open and unobstructed to view by the public from all adjoining public thoroughfares and rights-of-way.
e) Adult service establishments (bath houses, etc.) shall maintain all windows in a clear and unobstructed manner, so that the entire reception area, lobby, ticket sales area of the service establishment is open and unobstructed to view by the public from all adjoining public rights-of-way.
f) The lot on which any of the above establishments (a, b, c, d and e) are located must front on an arterial street and must be at least one acre in size.
22. Ambulance service or rescue squad X X X
23. Amusement or recreational activities (commercial), carried on outside a building such as a golf or baseball driving range, miniature golf course, softball field, and uses of a similar nature. X SE X
24. Amusement or recreational activities (commercial) carried on outside a building which produces noise and/or noxious fumes, such as drag racing strips, racetracks, motorcycle races or ATV (all-terrain vehicle) courses, and uses of a similar nature. SE
25. Amusement or recreational activities (commercial) carried on wholly within a building, such as cinema, theater, auditorium, and uses of a similar nature. X X X
26. Animal, hospital, commercial kennels, veterinary clinic or animal boarding place, located at least 300 feet from the nearest residential district. X X X
27. Reserved
28. Art studio X X X X
29. Automobile service station provided that major auto repair shall not be permitted, nor shall there be outside storage of materials or equipment other than merchandise offered for sale in a G-B District. X X X
30. Automobile, truck, farm equipment, or motorcycle sales, repair, or lawn mower, upholstery, auto washeteria, paint shops, or tire recapping (including rebuilding of parts or sales of parts and equipment indoors only, no outside storage of equipment or parts except for WLI and H-I Districts). X X X
31. Automobile parking lot or parking garage (commercial) X X X X
32. Bait and tackle store; in S-A, only when associated with resource-oriented amusement or recreational activity. SE X X X X
33. Banks, financial institutions, and offices not specifically listed elsewhere in this column X X
34. Book binding, printing, engraving, blueprinting, Photostatting, or letter shop X X X X
35. Building contractor and related activities and storage of building supplies and materials provided that equipment and materials temporarily stored or displayed outside shall be completely enclosed by a suitable fence. No sawmill or planing mill operations shall take place on the premises within any district other than the H-I District. X X X
36. Business schools (private) X X X X
36a. Catering service X X X
37. Clothing and dry goods stores, including shoe stores, men's shops, women's shops, variety stores and stores of a similar nature. X X
38. Clubs or lodges (private) SE SE SE SE SE X X X X
39. Reserved
40. Cultural facilities, libraries, museums, and similar facilities. SE SE SE SE SE X X X X
41. Dance school or studio X X X
42. Department stores X X
43. Drive-in restaurants X
44. Drive-in theater X X
45. Drug stores X X X
46. Electrical repair and similar repair of a heavy commercial nature. X X X
47. Electrical appliance repair wholly contained within a building. X X X X
48. Experimental laboratory SE X X X
49. Freight express office X X X
50. Farmers market X X X
51. Farm supplies, including feed, seed, and insecticides, and fertilizer retail sales. X X X
52. Flower shop X X X
53. Food stores, including retail bakeries, meat markets, dairy products, confectioners shops, and stores of a similar nature. X X X
54. Funeral home SE SE X
55. Furniture upholstery shop SE X X X
56. Glass sales and storage—Wholly contained within a building. X X X
57. Golf course—Lighted X X X
58. Golf course, provided that: SE SE SE SE SE X
a) It shall be for daytime use only; and
b) All greens and fairways shall be set back at least 100 feet from any exterior property lines; and
c) Structures shall meet minimum setback requirements for single-family residences within the respective district.
59. Growing of gardens X X X X X X X X X X X X
60. Home furnishings and hardware, such as appliance sales, hardware stores, paint stores, sporting goods stores, furniture stores, and stores of a similar nature. X X X
61. Hospitals, nursing homes, care homes and congregate personal care homes, provided that: X SE
a) The lot size shall be no less than 3 acres within any district where allowed; and
b) Any building or structure established with any such use shall have minimum side and rear yard of 50 feet; and
c) The setback shall be 25 feet more than required for other structures within the same district; and
d) The lot upon which any hospital is built shall front on a principal or minor arterial as specified on the Major Thoroughfare Plan.
62. Hotels X X
63. Laboratory serving professional requirements—Medical, dental X X X
64. Laundromat or washeteria X X
65. Locksmith, gunsmith—Repairs and sales only. X X
66. Medical, dental, or similar clinic X X X
67. Motels X
68. Music teaching studio X X X X
69. Neighborhood dry cleaning plants, laundry pick-up stations: X X
a) The dry cleaning plant and its operation shall meet the requirements of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.; and
b) The dry cleaning plant shall serve not more than one pickup and delivery station exclusive of one occupying the same premises as the plant; and
c) The building for a dry cleaning plant shall not contain more than 4,000 square feet of floor area inclusive of dry cleaning pickup facilities within the building; and
d) The dry cleaning plant shall be designed to operate in a manner that will not emit smoke, or odor, or objectionable waste materials and which will not produce noise that will carry beyond the walls of the building occupied by such plant; and
e) Fuel for operation of equipment shall be smokeless fuel; and
f) The applicant for the dry cleaning plant shall certify in writing at the time of application that all the above conditions will be met.
70. Newspaper or periodical production, sales and distribution X X X X
71. Newspaper or periodical publishing X X X X X
72. Reserved
73. Office equipment sales and service X X
74. Reserved
75. Pawnshops and small personal loan offices other than commercial banks. X X
76. Personal service shops, such as barber shops, beauty shops, tanning beds or salon, shoe repair, watch repair, and services of a similar nature. X X X
77. Pest control, providing no outside storage other than within a WLI or H-I District. X X X
78. Photography studio X X X X
79. Produce sales, seasonal X X X
80. Radio and television studios X X X X
81. Reserved
82. Railroad or bus passenger station X X X
83. Reserved
84. Restaurants X X X X
85. Retail auto parts and tire stores X X X
86. Retail stores, not covered elsewhere in this section. X X
87. Residential manufactured home sales SE SE
88. Shell home display yards SE SE
89. Shrubbery sales (within a N-C zone, must be wholly contained within the building.) X X X X
90. Specialty shops, such as gift shops, jewelry stores, jewelry repair, antique shops, and stores of a similar nature. SE X X
91. Taxidermist X X X
92. Taxi office X SE X
92A. Telecommunication towers: SE SE SE SE
a) Provided all structures are setback from property lines and right-of-way lines the required distances for that district, plus 1 foot for every 2 feet above the height requirements of that districts.
b) Towers for telecommunication services will not be permitted within 500 feet of each other measured from base of tower to base of tower.
93. Telegraph or messenger service X X X
94. Trade schools X X SE X
95. Travel trailer park, provided that: X
a) No travel trailer nor R/V park shall be located except with direct access to a principal or minor arterial with a minimum lot width of not less than 50 feet for that portion used for entrance and exit. No entrances or exits shall be through a residential district, or shall require movement of traffic from the park through a residential district.
b) The minimum lot area required for a travel trailer park shall be 3 acres.
c) Spaces in a travel trailer park may be used by travel trailers provided they shall be rented by the day or week only, and an occupant of such space shall remain in the trailer park for a period of not more than 30 days.
d) Management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, showers, laundry facilities and other uses and structures customarily incidental to operation of a trailer park are permitted as accessory uses in any district in which travel trailer parks are allowed provided such establishments and the parking area primarily related to their operations shall not occupy more than 10 percent of the area of the park.
e) No space shall be located so that any part intended for occupancy for sleeping purposes shall be within 20 feet of the exterior property line.
f) In addition to meeting the above requirements, the travel trailer park site plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the County Health Department.
96. Utility trailer rentals and rent-alls X SE X X
97. Vending machines, located out-of-doors subject to yard and setback requirements for the respective districts (as an accessory use only). X X X X X
Manufacturing, Wholesale and Industry
98. Acid storage and distribution X
99. Feed, grain, or fertilizer wholesaling and storage X X
100. Freezer locker service, ice storage X X
101. Greenhouse and plant nursery nursery/commercial—Heavy equipment allowed only in WLI and H-I Districts. SE X X
102. Heavy manufacturing—The like which produce noise, odor, dust, fumes, fire hazards or other nuisance features shall be set back not less than 500 feet from any H-I District boundary.
a) Asphalt or concrete plant X
b) Battery manufacturing X
c) Bone distillation SE
d) Corrosive acids manufacturing SE
e) Drop forge industry SE
f) Fat or oil manufacturing (including fat rendering) SE
g) Fertilizer manufacturing SE
h) Grain mill product manufacturing X
i) Leather tanning manufacturing X
j) Linoleum manufacturing X
k) Luggage manufacturing X
l) Lumber manufacturing (lumber sawmill and storage) X
m) Meat processing plant X
n) Metal product manufacturing X
o) Organic materials reduction SE
p) Petroleum refining and related industry X
q) Pulp or paper mill SE
r) Rubber or plastic product manufacturing SE
s) Stone, clay, or glass manufacturing SE
t) Transportation equipment manufacturing X
103. Junkyard or auto graveyard, provided that: SE
a) Minimum lot size of 5 acres is required;
b) Front yard setback increased 50 feet over requirements for other uses in H-I zones;
c) Cannot be within 500 feet of any residential district; and
d) The entire junkyard or auto graveyard shall be screened as required in Section 54-23.
e) Must be setback 500 feet from any district boundary.
104. Light manufacturing:
a) Appliance and electronic device assembly plant including the manufacturing of parts for appliances and electronic devices; and X X
b) Manufacturing of food, cosmetics and pharmaceutical products, but not including fish and meat products, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, and rendering plants; and X X
c) Machinery shop and related activities; and X X
d) Construction of signs, including painted signs; and X X
e) Cooperage; and X X
f) Bottling and canning plants; and X X
g) Light sheet metal products such as ventilating ducts and eaves; and X X
h) Ice manufacturing; and X X
i) Laundry, cleaning, and dyeing plants; and X X
j) Musical instruments, toys, novelties, and similar products; and X X
k) Ceramic products provided that kilns shall only be by gas or electricity; and X X
l) Assembly of products from previously prepared materials; and X X
m) Tinsmith and roofing service. X X
n) The manufacturing processing, packaging, or handling of a similar nature which shall not omit or produce more smoke, noise, odor, dust, vibration or fumes than the uses listed herein. X X
105. Lumber yard, coal storage yards, or other storage not specifically listed in this column, such yards if within a WLI District shall be enclosed by a fence and no storage shall be permitted outside such fence. X X
106. Petroleum storage (wholesale storage and wholesale distribution) X X
107. Planing mill or sawmill X
108. Reserved
109. Sale of livestock and fowl SE X
110. Sanitary landfill or incineration X
111. Truck terminal X X
111A. Utility substations, provided all buildings, masts, and other facilities are located at least 200 feet from adjacent property lines on any lot which adjoins any residential district.
112. Warehousing (not related to sales on the premises) X X
113. Warehousing (mini storage facility) storage for personal property - must be wholly contained within a building. X X
114. Wholesaling of a light commercial nature when operated in conjunction with or as part of a retail outlet. X X X
115. Wholesaling (not covered in other parts of this list.) SE X X
Signs
116. Advertising incidental use sign X X X X X X X
117. Advertising separate use sign X X X
118. Point of business sign (in accordance with restriction in Section 54-314 or 54-315, if for home occupation); identification sign, bulletin board. X X X X X X X X X X X X X
119. Signs which do not require a permit (refer to Section 54-347) X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Agricultural and Related Uses
120. Amusement or recreational activities (resource oriented), such as parks; marinas, hunting, fishing and shooting preserves and clubs; bird sanctuaries; botanical gardens; archery ranges. SE
121. Agricultural experimental laboratory and/or facilities SE
122. Apiculture X
123. Crop dusting service—If landing strip is associated with activity, landing strip must be set back 500 feet from all property lines. SE X
124. Farming and farm operations, including related structures and other agricultural uses. (see Section 54-320) X
125. Fish hatcheries X
126. Forestry nurseries (tree farms) X
127. Growing of crops X X X
128. Horticultural production, including related retail and wholesale activities. X
129. Plant farms X
130. Riding or boarding stables SE
131. Rodeo or horse show SE
132. Rural home occupation SE X X X
133. Worm farm SE
134. Vineyards X
Miscellaneous
135. Armories for meetings and training organizations. X X X
136. Carnival or athletic event, community fair or other event of interest to the public, not to exceed 30 days. X X X X
137. Cemetery (commercial) SE
138. Religious meetings held in a tent or other temporary structure not to exceed 30 days. X X X X X
139. Temporary buildings and storage of materials (in reply to: conjunction with construction of a building) on a lot where construction is taking place or on adjacent lots such temporary uses to be terminated upon completion of construction. No temporary building shall be used for residential purposes. X X X X X X X X X X X X
140. Temporary batch plants and construction related facilities for a single development SE SE
  (Code 2003, § 8-3054; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 5-1; Ord. No. 2000-5, § 5-2, 8-15-2000)
Sec. 54-223. - Development standards.
Within the various zoning districts as indicated on the Official Zoning Map, City of Ocilla, Georgia, no building or structure, excluding all signs, shall be constructed or erected except as indicated in the following schedule:
EXPAND
Zoning District
Development Standard S-A R-14 R-8 R-8-M M-R
Minimum gross floor area per dwelling unit (sq. ft.) 800 1,200 800 800 800 3
Minimum lot area for dwelling units (sq. ft.) 5 acres 14,000 8,000
12,000
>(duplex) 8,000
12,000
(duplex) 6,000—1st unit plus
3,000 sq. ft. each add'l unit
Minimum lot width (feet) 210 100 80 80 60
Minimum front yard setback from the centerline of R/W (feet)
Principal and minor art. 90 1 80 1 80 1 80 1 75 1
Collector streets 80 1 70 1 70 1 70 1 65 1
Local streets 70 1 60 1 60 1 60 1 55 1
Minimum side yards (feet) 20 10 10 10 8 ft. except multifamily or residential group dev. pjts., 3 or more stories - 20 ft.
Minimum rear yards (feet) 40 40 30 30 30 2
Maximum height 35 35 35 35 None 2
  1 Plus one-half any amount which the right-of-way width exceeds 60 feet for local streets, 80 feet for collector streets, and 100 feet for principal and minor arterials.
2 The minimum distance from all other property lines to any building over 35 feet in height shall be increased one foot for every two feet (or part of two feet) of building height greater than 35 feet.
3 800 square feet for each unit (two bedrooms or larger); 600 square feet for each one bedroom unit (not to exceed 25 percent of project); 400 square feet for each efficiency unit (not to exceed 25 percent of project).
EXPAND
Zoning District
Development Standards M-H-P R-P N-C G-B C-B-D C-A4 WLI H-I
Minimum gross floor area per dwelling unit (sq. ft.) 400 800
Minimum lot area for dwelling units (sq. ft.) Gross 5 acres (see § 54-318 for individual units) 8,000
12,000
Duplex
Minimum lot width (feet) 100 100 60 60 None 150 None None
Minimum front yard setback from the centerline of R/W (feet) 80
Principal and minor art. 75 2 80 2 90 2 75 2 None 100 2 90 2 90 2
Collector streets 65 2 70 2 80 2 75 2 None N/A 80 2 80 2
Local streets 55 2 60 2 70 2 70 2 None N/A 70 2 70 2
Minimum side yards (feet) 20 10 None 1, 3 None 1, 3 None 1, 3 40 1, 3 None 1, 3 None 1, 3
Minimum rear yards (feet) 20 30 12 1, 3 12 1, 3 None 1, 2 40 1, 3 12 1, 3 None 1, 2
Maximum height 35 35 35 1 None 1 None None 1 None 1 None 1
  1 The minimum distance from all other property lines to any building over 35 feet in height shall be increased one foot for every two or part of two feet) of building height greater than 35 feet.
2 Plus one-half any amount which the right-of-way width exceeds 60 feet for local streets, 80 feet for collector streets, and 100 feet for principal and minor arterials.
3 If the adjoining yard is within any residential district, the yard requirements specified in this table shall be increased ten feet and screening shall be provided as specified in Section 54-23 along the lot line common with said lot.
4 Additional development standards and guidelines are contained in the ordinance to regulate adult entertainment establishments within the City.
(Code 2003, § 8-3055; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 6-1)
Secs. 54-224—54-254. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WATER RESOURCE DISTRICTS

Sec. 54-255. - Purpose.
The intent of this division is to establish minimum development standards and criteria which will afford reasonable protection of environmentally sensitive natural resources found throughout the City. Based on the findings of the 2015 Greater Irwin Comprehensive Plan, it has been determined the wise management of these resources as defined in this division is essential to maintaining the health, safety, general welfare and economic well-being of the public.
(Code 2003, § 8-3091; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 10-1)
Sec. 54-256. - Establishment.
(a)
The City's Water Resource Districts shall include the following:
(1)
Wetlands Districts.
(2)
Flood Hazard Overlay District (Reserved).
(b)
The boundaries of these Water Resource Districts are shown on a set of maps designated as "Water Resource Districts" and are included as part of the Ocilla Official Zoning Map, which is on file in the Zoning Administrator's office located in the Ocilla Municipal Building.
(Code 2003, § 8-3092; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 10-2)
Sec. 54-257. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Water Resources District means a map overlay which imposes a set of requirements in addition to those of the underlying zoning district.
Wetlands means those areas inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrological vegetation and hydrological conditions involving a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation. For the purposes of this chapter, the 1987 Draft National Wetlands Inventory shall serve to define these potential areas.
(Code 2003, § 8-3093; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 10-3)
Sec. 54-258. - Wetlands District.
(a)
Findings of fact. The wetlands within the City are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion and soil limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; natural resource education, scientific study; and recreational opportunities.
(b)
Purpose. The purpose of this overlay district is to promote the wise use of wetlands and protect them from alterations which will significantly affect or reduce the primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, ground water recharge, aesthetic natural areas and wildlife habitat areas.
(c)
District delineation. These regulations shall apply to all potential wetlands located within the City. The wetland district overlay map, adopted as part of this chapter, shows the general location of wetlands, according to the U. S. Department of Interior 1987 National Wetlands Inventory and should be consulted by persons considering activities in or near wetlands before engaging in a regulated activity. The standards for this district shall comply with Department of Natural Resources Rule 391-3-16-.03 (Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. R 391-3-16-.03), Criteria for Wetlands Protection.
(d)
Wetland development permit requirements. No activity or use, except those identified in Subsection (e) of this section, shall be allowed within the wetland overlay district without a permit issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. If the area proposed for development is located within 50 feet of any potential wetland district boundary, the applicant must document receipt of a nationwide, regional, general or individual permit or a letter of clearance that jurisdictional wetlands are not located on the subject property from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act before a development permit will be issued by the City. Any local government action under this chapter does not relieve the landowner from any federal or State permitting requirements.
(e)
Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted by right within the wetland district to the extent they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining or dredging:
(1)
Forestry practices in accordance with best management practices approved by the Georgia Forestry Commission, Section 404 does not require permits for normal, ongoing silvicultural activities. However, Section 404 does list some required road construction best management practices that must be followed in order to qualify for such an exemption.
(2)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish or other wildlife, provided the conservation or preservation does not affect waters of the State or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
(3)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding and canoeing.
(4)
Natural water quality treatment or purification.
(5)
Normal agriculture activities including the planting and harvesting of crops and pasturing of livestock. Such activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(f)
Prohibited uses. The following uses are prohibited in a wetland district:
(1)
Receiving areas for toxic or hazardous waste or other contaminants.
(2)
Hazardous or sanitary landfills.
(Code 2003, § 8-3094; Ord. of 2-7-2000, § 10-4)
Secs. 54-259—54-279. - Reserved.
