Chapter 30 - LICENSES, TAXATION AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Game room; definitions and regulations.
(a)
Game room defined. For the purpose of this section, any business located within the corporate limits of the City which derives more than 50 percent of its gross income from the use by patrons of pinball machines, tables or boards for the playing of games or engaging in contests of skill or chance, whether coin-operated or not, shall be deemed a "game room."
(b)
Applications. All applications for a game room in the City must be approved by the City Council on a yearly basis, after the submission of the personal history check as set out in Subsection (c) of this section.
(c)
Personal history check. All applicants for a game room license and the employers thereof must agree to a personal history background check by the City Police Department.
(d)
Hours of operation. It shall be unlawful for any person owning, managing or otherwise operating any game room to operate the same or open it to the public between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and 12:00 midnight through 6:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday.
(e)
Alcoholic beverages. No license shall be granted for a game room that is located within 300 feet of an establishment that sells or serves alcoholic beverages of any nature.
(f)
Prior licenses. Any game room license approved and/or issued prior to the passing of this section shall be grandfathered in; however, in the event the business changes ownership or closes, any new application shall be considered as governed by this section and not grandfathered in.
(g)
Violation of section. Violators will be cited to appear in the Municipal Court of the City and ordered to pay a fine of not less than $100.00 plus court costs. Second offense violators (within a 12-month period) will be ordered to pay a fine not less than $200.00 plus court costs. Third offense violators shall be ordered to pay a fine of $200.00 plus court costs and shall have their license revoked.
(Code 2003, § 6-1040; Ord. of 12-17-2004)
Sec. 30-2. - Closing hours for game rooms.
(a)
For the purpose of this section, any business located within the corporate limits of the City which derives more than 50 percent of its gross income from the use by patrons of pinball machines, tables or boards for the playing of games, electronic video games or any other similar type amusement machines or devices for the playing of games or engaging in contests of skill or chance, whether coin-operated or not, shall be deemed a "game room."
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, managing or otherwise operating any game room to operate the same or open it to the public between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and 12:00 midnight through 6:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday.
(c)
Violators will be cited to appear in the Municipal Court and ordered to pay a fine of not less than $100.00 plus court costs. Second offense violators (within a 12-month period) will be ordered to pay a fine of not less than $200.00 plus court costs. Third offense violators will have their license revoked.
(Code 2003, § 10-4006; Ord. of 4-6-2000)
Secs. 30-3—30-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL TAX[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Business and professional tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 30-23. - Short title.
This article may be cited as the "Business and Professional Tax Ordinance of the City of Ocilla."
(Code 2003, § 2-5031; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 1, Art. 1; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 1, Art. 1)
Sec. 30-24. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business means any trade, calling, avocation, or profession engaged in for payment and/or the sale of goods and services in an attempt to make a profit including the activities engaged in by the manufacturer.
Business subject to tax means any business carried on by any person involving the maintenance of a place of business in the City or involving the rendition of services in the City of the character made by a wholesaler or retailer, or involving the carrying on in the City of any of the functions performed by a manufacturer.
Manufacturer means a person who, either directly or by contracting with others for the necessary labor of mechanical services, manufacturers the sale or commercial use of any articles, substances or commodities, including all the activities of a commercial nature wherein labor or skill is applied, by hand or machinery, to materials so that as a result thereof a new, different or useful article of tangible personal property or substance of trade or commerce is produced; and including the production or fabrication of specially made or custom made articles; and including the fabricating, processing, refining, mixing, slaughtering, and preparing and freezing of fresh foods, fruits, vegetables and meats.
Person means any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or group of individuals acting as a unit.
Retailer means a person who sells to the consumer or to any other person for any purpose other than for the resale in the form of tangible personal property and who is required to pay State sales and use tax in conjunction with the sales affected by such person; provided, however, that a person selling plumbing supplies, building supplies, electrical supplies, or auto parts or supplies shall be a retailer without regard to the payment of State sales and use taxes unless such sales are made for the purpose of resale.
Services means the accommodating or performing of a duty or work by a person utilizing time or talents (whatever, with or without a product being involved) for direct or indirect remuneration.
Tuition fees means the gross receipts of a business college, trade school, dancing school or a similar institution.
Wholesaler means a person who sells to jobbers or to another person other than the customer anything in the form of tangible personal property and who is not required to collect a State sales and use tax incidental to the sales effected by such person.
(Code 2003, § 2-5032; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 1, Art. 2; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 1, Art. 2)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
Sec. 30-25. - Tax levied.
Pursuant to authority contained in the Charter of the City, a license tax is hereby levied in the amounts hereinafter specified upon each and every person engaged in the hereafter described businesses subject to tax.
(Code 2003, § 2-5033; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 1, Art. 3; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 1, Art. 3)
Sec. 30-26. - Exemptions.
(a)
The following persons and businesses are exempted from the tax imposed by this article:
(1)
Individual farmers who raise, grow, or cultivate edible food from the soil of the State; provided, however, farm, milk, or other farmer cooperatives are not exempted when they engage in selling foods and/or services to the public in competition with persons taxed by virtue of the provisions of this article.
(2)
Religious, charitable and fraternal organizations chartered or operated for nonprofit purposes and which are not engaged in daily selling of goods or services to the public in competition with persons taxed by virtue of the provisions of this article.
(3)
Persons or activities exempted from tax by virtue of the provisions of the Constitution or any statute of the United States or the Constitution or any statute of the State.
(b)
In the event that a portion of the business engaged in by any person is exempted from tax by virtue of the provisions of this section, the portion of the business engaged in by such person which is liable to tax shall be taxed.
(Code 2003, § 2-5034; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 1, Art. 4; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 1, Art. 4)
State Law reference— Exempt businesses and practitioners, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-16.
_____
Sec. 30-27. - Specific classifications.
The schedule of businesses, trades, or professions' license fees is as established by the Council for the following:
EXPAND
A
Abattoir
Abstract company, agency for
Advertising agency
Agency claim and collecting company, each
Agency, real estate:
Renting
Sale
Air conditioning and heating, installation and service
Alcoholic beverages. See chapter 4
Aluminum siding, sale and installation
Antique shop, sales and repair
Appliances, when sold from auto or truck
Artificial stone yard, manufacturing, building and paving stone, etc., or agent for
Astrologer
Auctioneer, permanent or transient, per day
Automobile garage, repairing automobiles with sale of accessories
Auto sales, new and used
Auto body, repairs and painting
Auto glass, cutting and fitting
Auto parts and accessories
Auto service station, selling tires and batteries
Auto tire, sales, vulcanizing, retreading
Auto trim shop
Auto storage
Auto mechanics, with shop
Auto tires and accessories, truck making retail delivery not connected with local store
Awnings and/or sales
B
Bank
Backhoe, contract work with
Bakery
Bakery truck not connected with local bakery, per truck
Bait shop
Bankrupt sale (see "vendor")
Barbershop:
One chair
Each additional chair
Beauty parlor:
First operator
Each additional operator
Bicycles, sales and repair
Billiard:
Pool or bagatelle
One to four tables
Each additional table
Miniature
First table
Each additional table
(License will be revoked if children 16 years of age or under are allowed in pool rooms with or without parent's permission or if not closed by 12:00 midnight.)
Boardinghouses
Bookkeeping service
Bootblack, each chair
Bottling works, or manufacturer of carbonated drinks, including fruit juices and plain water:
First truck
Each additional truck
(This license is on plants and not on trucks. The trucks merely determine the size of the plant.)
Bowling alleys
Boxing and wrestling arenas, per day
Brick or block manufacturer
Bricklayer
Broker, each and every broker doing business in the City, acting for the broker or for others, who purchases, sells or orders, transfers or handles, in any way for account of others, merchandise, fruits, fish or produce of any kind selling to registered merchants from truck or semi-trailer
Building supplies
Butane or propane or mixed gas, from truck or plant
Butcher shops
Bus express, agent for
(This specific occupation tax is levied upon all business done within the City and to and from points in the State. Business done to and from points without the State are expressly excluded from the tax.)
C
Catering
Chenille rug and spread manufacturing, wholesale
Cabinet shop
Cafe, restaurant, cafeteria
(A permit is required from Health Department showing approval of premises food handlers, prior to issuance of new or renewal of license.)
Candy, cookie and food trucks
Candy or confection store
Candy manufacturing
Canvassers (see Peddlers)
Carpet cleaners or shop
Carpenter
Carnivals
Carnivals in connection with County Fair
Carwash
Cement truck
Cemetery company
Chiropodist
Christmas trees, sale thereof
Circuses, per day
Clothing merchants
Clothing, when sold from auto or truck, each auto or truck
Coal, dealer
Coal and wood
Cobbler
Coin-operated machines:
Cigarette vendor, each machine
Coffee dispenser, each machine
Commission merchant, dealer in fruit or produce exclusively
Concrete, artificial stone, brick or tiling manufacturer
Contractor and/or supervisor, building or repairing residence, store or otherwise (sub-contractors must buy own license)
Cotton buyer or broker
Cotton warehouse
Coupon books
Credit bureau:
Selling reports
Agent
D
Dance hall (must be approved by Fire Chief)
Dairy, delivering within city (raw milk and milk products)
Dairy store
Day care, personal
Delivery service
Dental laboratory
Detective agency or branch thereof (each application must be approved by Police Chief)
Drugs, sundries, notions
Dry cleaners:
Including pressing
Self-service
Dry goods and notions:
Under $5,000.00
Over $5,000.00
Dry goods:
When sold from truck or auto, each truck or auto
Wholesale
Dry ice dispenser
Dry wall and plaster
E
Earth moving equipment, rental or contract for
Eating house
Electric appliances:
Generally
When sold from truck or auto, each truck or auto
Electric machinery or supplies
Electric motor, sales, rewinding and/or repair
Electrician, subject to examination and bond
Electrical contractors
Electrical supplies
Employment service
Express company
(This specific occupation tax is levied upon all business done within the City and to and from points in the State of Georgia. Business done to and from points without the State of Georgia are expressly excluded from this tax.)
F
Fabric or cloth shop
Factory, sash, door and blind
Family day care
Federal savings and loan association
Feed mill
Feed store
Fencing
Fertilizer, sold in connection with feed store or other business
Fertilizer manufacturer
Fire alarm systems, residential and industrial
Firearms
Fish dealer
Five and ten cent store
Fire sales (see Vendor)
Flea market
Floor covering and tile
Floor sanding
Florist
Florist, not having local place of business
Flour, each truck operating in City
Fortune teller or palmist, and character reading
Freezer locker
Fruits and garden seed
Fruits and vegetables
Funeral house or undertaking parlor:
[Generally]
Dealing in headstones, additional
Furnace, repairs and sales
Furniture dealer
Furniture trucks making retail deliveries not in connection with local stores, each truck
Furniture, when sold from auto or truck
G
Gallery
Games of chance—Prohibited
Gas, artificial:
Dealer in, with office or establishment in the City
Dealer not having office or establishment in City
Gas fitters must stand examination and pay license under G-4.
Gas stoves and appliances
Gas fitters and plumbers (subject to examination and bond)
Gasoline:
Service station
Self-service stations
Gasoline and lubricating oils (propane or butane) wholesale in City:
Delivering gas and oil in City by tank trucks, in drums, cans or otherwise to retail dealers having office or establishment in the City
In City
Gift shop
Glass cutters and fabricators and installers
Grain elevator
Groceries or coffee sales, direct from truck, each truck
Grass and lawn service
Grist mill and meal
Groceries and meat market:
Stock over $4,000.00
Stock under $4,000.00
H
Hardware store:
Up to $5,000.00 stock
Over $5,000.00 stock
Hatchery
Health spa
Hotels or inns
House movers
House trailers or mobile homes, sales new and used
House trailers or mobile homes manufacturer
I
Ice, manufacturing and selling, either wholesale or retail
Ice cream
Implement (farm) dealer or agent for
Industrial supply and clothes rental
Insect control and termites (Permit required from State prior to issuance of license.)
Insurance adjustor
Insulation
Interior decorators
Irrigation equipment
Itinerant dealer
J
Janitorial service:
Out of town
Local
Jewelry:
Costume from stands
Retail dealer and repairs
When sold from truck or auto, each truck or car
Jewelry repair, only
Job printing
Junk dealer (Each person or persons shall hold their shop subject to visitation and inspection by police and on refusal of any such dealer at any time to submit to such visitation or inspection, his or their shop shall be immediately closed by the Mayor, and license forfeited, and in case any machinery or appliances of any railroad shop or gas company or water works fixtures shall be found in such junk dealer's shop without sufficient explanation of same it shall be just and conclusive cause for the revocation of each dealer's license. Minors are to have written permits from parents or guardians before selling to dealers. If junk dealer buys from a minor without a written permit from parents, the dealer will be subject to prosecution.)
K
Kennels (dog) must be in an area zoned for business
L
Landscaping
Laundry:
Diapers only
Not having an office or establishment in Ocilla and making pickup and delivery, each truck or auto
Having an establishment in Ocilla for pickup and delivery
Self-service
Lumberyard
Linen supply, to include rental of towels or apparel
Liquor, retail, package only, must comply with City ordinance to control and regulate sale and distribution of distilled spirits (chapter 4)
Livestock:
Auction market only
Market only
Lunchroom, selling sandwiches and drinks
M
Machine shop or welding repairs
Magazine or news store
Mail order house, or any other type of business with established place of business, taking orders and delivery through store from other stocks operating with force of sales people and delivery service as a regular mercantile establishment, not to include electrical appliances
Malt beverages:
By package
On the premises
Manufacturers
Meat markets
Meat trucks, each truck operating in City
Meat, wholesale
Merchandise, sales, any merchandise sold in local store and not specifically covered elsewhere and not otherwise prohibited by law
Miniature golf course
Mobile home, sales and services
Money lenders:
Lending money on real estate alone, or any agent representing the lender or borrower
Any person, firm or corporation engaged regularly in making loans on household or kitchen furniture, house goods, wearing apparel, sewing machines, musical instruments, automobiles, and other motor vehicles or farm equipment (small loan office)
Monument or headstones, sales and/or installations (This includes installation even though no charge is made for same.)
Motels
Movie theatres, each theatre
Musical instruments and merchandise
Music and amusement machines (coin-operated), each machine
Music service:
Background
Tapes and tape players
N
Neon signs, installations and repairs
News depot, meaning dealer in current periodicals, magazines and newspapers
Newspaper:
Published daily
Published weekly
Nursery and shrubbery dealer
Nursing homes
O
Office supplies, office equipment, books, stationery
Oil and gasoline, wholesale dealer doing business in the City, or agent
Optical goods not in connection with other merchandise
P
Packing house, provision company, branch of selling and delivering, meat curing plants
Painter:
Sign, decorators
House, each
Parcel delivery (This specific occupation tax is levied upon all business done within the City and to and from points in the State of Georgia. Business done to and from points without the State of Georgia are expressly excluded from this tax.)
Pawnbrokers, each person or firm engaged in the business of pawnbroker or conducting a pawnbroker shop in the City shall make a report to the Chief of Police before 10:00 each day (except Sunday when transactions for Saturdays shall be made the following Monday) of every article or thing pawned to or purchased by the pawnbroker for the day and night previous, said report to specify the article or thing, giving a full description thereof such as number, mark and all other details as will make identification of such articles clear, positive; and [such] person or persons aforesaid shall hold their shops subject to visitation and inspection of the police, and on refusal of any pawnbroker to submit to such visitation and inspection of his or their shop [such shop] shall be ordered immediately closed by the Mayor. All licenses issued to pawnbrokers are subject to these provisions, and violations of which shall be punished with the revocation of the same and no license for pawnbrokers shall be transferred from the person to whom it was issued and no such license shall be issued for less than an amount as established by the City.
Peanut shelling plant (for public or private use (dryer and cleaner)
Pecan, buying, selling and processing
Personnel or employment service
Pest control (see "Insect control")
Photographers:
Not having local place of business
With local shop
Piano tuner and repairer
Pianos, organs, musical instruments and merchandise
Pinball
Plastic manufacturers and molders
Play school
Plumbers (see "Gas fitters")
Pressing club
Printing, job office
Professions: Attorneys-at-law, physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, naturopaths, physiotherapists, masseurs, electrotherapists, dentists, occultists, optometrists, chiropodists, veterinarians, public accountants, architects, surveyors, engineers (civil, electrical, constructing, consulting or mechanical)
Punch boards or ticket games of chance—Prohibited
Promotion, public relations
R
Radio and/or TV, sales and repair
Radio broadcasting station, maintaining and operating same and solicitation of advertising. This does not apply to the function of the radio broadcasting station relating to interstate commerce
Recreation
Repair shop, not herein otherwise enumerated
Real estate (see "Agency")
Rental equipment
Restaurant (see restrictions listed under "Cafe")
Rides, per week (provided the machinery or apparatus shall be located at such place in the City as the Mayor may approve or direct license subject to be revoked at any time for just cause by the Council.)
Roofing
Roof spraying
Rummage sale
S
Sawmill
Seed and feed store
Sewing machines, dealer in, agent for when not in connection with other merchandise
Schools, private
Sheet metal works
Shoes and boots:
Dealer
Repair shop
Shows, transient theatrical and other exhibitions, discretion of mayor not more per day than an amount as established by the City
Sign painter:
[Generally]
Installation and repairs (other than neon)
Skating rink (must be a permanent building), each
Slot machines, where there is a gambling element, or the element of chance, are prohibited by State law and are prohibited by the City—Prohibited
Snow cones, soft drinks from truck
Sporting goods, not to include pistols
Spraying shrubbery
Sprinkler system
Storage warehouse, or storage room for furniture or other commodities
Stamp companies, companies dealing in stamps to be exchanged for premiums or any other thing of value
T
Taxidermist
Telegraph company
Telephone company
Telephone answering service
Ten and twenty-five cent store
Ten pin (see "Bowling Alley")
Termite and insect control (Permit required from State prior to issuance of license.)
Tire, mobile repairs
Tires and auto accessories, trucks making retail delivery not in connection with local store
Tobacco and cigars, wholesale for trucks
Tobacco warehouse, each
Tractor sales and farm equipment
Trailer park, per year, per each trailer space
Tree surgery
Trucking company (see "Express company")
Tools, hand tools, Snap-on tools from car
Trading post, antiques and bric-a-brac
Trucks for hire:
Large
Small
Terrazzo setter
Tile setter
U
Uniform rental, trucks
Upholsterers
V
Variety stores
Vending machines, cigarettes and candy, each
Vendor masters, bankrupt or transient sale of merchandise. Any transient person, firm or corporation conducting that business common to vendor master, transients, salvage companies, ale agent and of like nature in which sales of stock and merchandise, bankrupt stocks, fire stocks, or stocks of other articles, are conducted by such transient or person, firm or corporation, on a commission basis or otherwise, provided the applicant for license claims to be regular dealer, and claims the right to pay the license provided thereof, then the Mayor may require of any applicant for any license under this specific tax a bond in the penal sum established by the City conditioned to pay the $ amount established by the City or appreciably reduce his stocks before the return and payment of ad valorem taxes to said City. Note: (The City Council recognizes that such sale would be a temporary arrangement and consequently the right to pay less than one year's license does not apply to the above.)
Vegetables and fruit, retail from truck
Vegetables, from truck or car wholesale to dealer, each truck
Video, sales, rentals
W
Warehouse:
Bonded
Cotton
Operated on commission basis
Storage
Well digging
Weighing machines (not to be licensed for use on sidewalks)
Washateria
Wholesale groceries or wholesale merchandise, fruit and vegetables
Wine
Wood and coal yards
Woolen mill
  (Code 2003, § 2-5035; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 2, Art. 1; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 2, Art. 1)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-6, 48-13-7.
_____
Sec. 30-28. - Businesses prohibited.
The following businesses are prohibited by law within the City:
(1)
Games of chance.
(2)
Peddlers or traders, house to house, or upon streets, alleys or commons of said City.
(3)
Merchandise from temporary structures, tents, or stands upon the streets and alleys of said City.
(4)
Lunch stands, other than cafes, restaurants, or eating houses.
(5)
Fireworks and pyrotechnics.
(6)
Fortune tellers, palmists, astrologers.
(Code 2003, § 2-5036; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 2, Art. 1; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 2, Art. 1)
State Law reference— Gambling and related offenses, O.C.G.A., § 16-12-20 et seq.; sale of fireworks, O.C.G.A., § 25-10-2 et seq.
Sec. 30-29. - Where to pay; signed return; posting license.
(a)
A form or notice will be mailed to all known licensees at the beginning of the year for registering each business; however, failure to receive such form or notice shall not release any person from any tax or penalties thereon, nor shall such failure operate to extend any time limit set by the provisions of this article.
(b)
The form or notice shall be filled out by the taxpayer in a complete manner, including the identification number given the business by the Georgia Sales and Use Tax Unit. The owner, proprietor, manager or executive officer shall sign and verify the form when completed and the same shall be returned to the City Clerk.
(c)
Checks should be made payable to the "City of Ocilla, City Hall, Ocilla, Georgia."
(d)
Payments of the tax imposed by this article can be made by mail with personal check, company check, money order, bank draft, certified check, or cashier's check, or by person in cash. If payment is made by check, the tax or fee shall not be deemed paid unless the check is honored in the usual course of business.
(e)
Payments by mail shall be postmarked no later than midnight of February 15 to be accepted without penalty.
(f)
The City Clerk shall mail or hand to the taxpayer a business license after payment is received.
(Code 2003, § 2-5039; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4, Art. 2; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 4, Art. 2)
Sec. 30-30. - Tax for each location.
Each business in a separate physical location shall pay a separate business, occupation or license tax.
(Code 2003, § 2-5040; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4, Art. 3; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 4, Art. 3)
Sec. 30-31. - Changes of business address.
Businesses which move from one location to another shall notify the City Tax Clerk of such move and the new address, in writing, no later than 30 days after moving. The same license will be valid at the new location (other than beer license).
(Code 2003, § 2-5041; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4, Art. 4; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 4, Art. 4)
Sec. 30-32. - Changes of business ownership.
(a)
No business license may be transferred from one person, firm or corporation to another. Additions to or deletions from the ownership of a business, which do not affect the liability and principal ownership of the business for the license, may be made without cancelling the old license and applying for a new license.
(b)
When any person or firm shall lease, operate, manage or control the business franchise or property of other firms, associations or corporations, such person or firm shall pay a separate license for each business.
(Code 2003, § 2-5042; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4, Art. 5; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 4, Art. 5)
Sec. 30-33. - Payment of tax.
(a)
The specific tax year in said City shall begin on January 1 in each year and expire on December 31 of the succeeding year. Such taxes shall be due and payable January 1993, and shall be delinquent if not paid by February 1, 1993, and each January 1 and February 1 thereafter, or on or before the date of beginning of any business, calling, vocation, or profession in the City on which a special tax or license is required. It shall be unlawful for any person, company, or corporation to engage in said City in any business or vocation prohibited by this article. It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to engage in any business, calling, vocation, or profession in the City on which a license or occupation tax is required by the Clerk of the City without paying the license or tax prescribed for same.
(b)
Any person or concern engaged in a business or occupation prior to August 1, each year, other than on special occasions where the license is at the per diem rate, shall pay a license for a full year. Any person or concern who becomes engaged in a business or occupation after August 1 during the year, shall pay a license of 60 percent of the annual license for said City without first registering which such trade or occupation; provided, however, that no license for the sale of malt beverages shall be issued for less than a full year, nor shall any malt beverage license be prorated.
(Code 2003, § 2-5043; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4, Art. 6; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 4, Art. 6)
Sec. 30-34. - Unpaid taxes.
The tax imposed by this article shall be and become from the date on which it is due a general lien on all of that property, real and personal, used or employed by the person, firm, partnership, or association subject to the tax in the conduct or operation of the person, firm, partnership, corporation or association or its business or profession. If such tax is not paid when due, the City shall issue an execution against the person, firm, partnership, corporation or association not paying the tax and levy shall be made on such property in the same manner as levies are made under executions for other taxes due the City.
(Code 2003, § 2-5044; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 1, Art. 6; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 1, Art. 6)
Sec. 30-35. - Notice to defaulters.
If any person or firm fails, neglects or refuses to make his return as and when required herein, the City Clerk is authorized to determine the amount of the license payable, and by mail to notify such person of the amount of the license payable, and by mail to notify such person of the amount so determined. The amount so fixed, including penalties, shall thereupon be the license tax or fee and be immediately due and payable.
(Code 2003, § 2-5045; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4, Art. 8; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 4, Art. 8)
Sec. 30-36. - Restrictions on license issuance for tents, booths, or temporary structures.
No license above specified shall be issued or granted to any person for the purpose of carrying on any business, of any character, in tents, booths, or temporary structures except on special occasions when the license is at the per diem.
(Code 2003, § 2-5047; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4, Art. 7; Ord. of 2-2-1993, § 4, Art. 7)
Sec. 30-37. - Health permit required for certain businesses.
All food services, tourist courts, or personal care home businesses shall be required to obtain a health permit before a City business license is issued.
(Code 2003, § 6-1041; Mo. of 2-2-1993)
Editor's note— A motion on Feb. 2, 1993, has been included herein as § 6-1041 at the editor's discretion.
Sec. 30-38. - Peddler's license.
The annual fee for a peddler's license shall be as established by the City.
(Code 2003, § 6-1042; Mo. of 2-15-1994)
Secs. 30-39—30-64. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTION LICENSE TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Municipal business license tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.

Sec. 30-65. - Business license tax imposed.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is hereby levied for the year 1984, and for each year thereafter, an annual business license tax upon State and national banking associations, federal savings and loan associations and State building and loan associations a business license tax at the rate of 0.25 of one percent of the gross receipts of said institutions, as defined. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the minimum amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to this article shall be $1,000.00 per year.
(Code 2003, § 2-5061; Ord. of 12-20-1985, § 1)
Sec. 30-66. - Calculation of gross receipts.
For purposes of this article, gross receipts shall mean the total amount of revenue generated from the sources itemized below during the calendar year immediately preceding the date on which the tax imposed by this article is due:
(1)
Items to be included in the calculations of gross receipts with respect to banks are as follows:
a.
Interest and fees on loans, less any interest collected on those portions of loans sold and serviced for others;
b.
Interest on balances with other depository financial institutions;
c.
Interest on federal or correspondent funds sold and securities purchased under agreements of resale;
d.
Interest on other bonds, notes, and debentures, excluding interest on obligations in the State or its political subdivisions and obligations on the United States;
e.
Dividends on stocks;
f.
Income from direct lease financing;
g.
Income from fiduciary activities;
h.
Service charges on deposit accounts;
i.
Other service charges, commissions, and fees; and
j.
Other income.
(2)
Items to be included in the calculation of gross receipts with respect to savings and loan associations are as follows:
a.
Interest on mortgage loans, less any interest collected on those portions of loans sold in service for others;
b.
Interest on mortgages, participations, or mortgage-backed securities;
c.
Interest on real estate sold on contract;
d.
Discounts on mortgage loans purchased;
e.
Interest on other loans, excluding interest on obligations of the State or its political subdivisions and obligations of the United States;
f.
Interest and dividends on investments and deposits;
g.
Loan fees;
h.
Loan servicing fees;
i.
Other fees and charges;
j.
Gross income from real estate owned operations;
k.
Net income from office building operations;
l.
Gross income from real estate held for investment;
m.
Net income from service corporations and subsidiaries;
n.
Miscellaneous operating income;
o.
Profit on sale of real estate owned, investment securities, loans, and other assets; and
p.
Miscellaneous nonoperating income.
(3)
The following items shall be deducted from gross receipts calculated pursuant to Subsection (1) or (2) of this section:
a.
An amount equal to the amount of interest paid on all liabilities for the period;
b.
An amount equal to income derived from the authorized activities of any domestic international banking facility operating pursuant to the Domestic International Banking Facility Act (O.C.G.A. § 7-1-730 et seq.);
c.
An amount equal to any income arising from the conduct of a banking business with persons or entities located outside of the United States, its territories or possessions;
d.
An amount equal to a depository financial institution's gross income which is taxed under the tax laws of the state other than Georgia; and
e.
To the extent that any deductions are made pursuant to Subsections (3)b, c, and d of this section, any deductions taken under Subsection (3)a of this section shall be reduced by the same proportion that the deductions of Subsections (3)b through d of this section bear to the gross receipts of the depository financial institution as calculated before making any deductions pursuant to Subsections (3)a through d of this section.
(Code 2003, § 2-5062; Ord. of 12-20-1983, § 2)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-95.
Sec. 30-67. - Tax due dates; filing of return.
(a)
Each depository financial institution within the City shall file a return of its gross receipts with the City on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts were measured. Said returns shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of the Department of Banking and shall be based upon the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The tax levied pursuant to this article shall be assessed and collected based upon the information provided in said return.
(b)
The due date of taxes levied by this article shall be April 1, 1984, and April 1 of each subsequent year.
(Code 2003, § 2-5063; Ord. of 12-20-1983, § 3)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
Secs. 30-68—30-92. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - INSURANCE LICENSE TAXES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local licensing and taxation of insurance, O.C.G.A. § 33-3-8 et seq.

Sec. 30-93. - Insurer license fees.
There is hereby levied, for the year 1984 and for each year thereafter, an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the City in the amount of $40.00. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by Section 30-94, which is operating on behalf of insurers within the City, there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount of $40.00. For the purpose of this article, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(Code 2003, § 2-5071; Ord. of 9-6-1983, § 1; Ord. of 7-2-1984, § 1)
State Law reference— License fee authorized, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
Sec. 30-94. - License fee on insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations.
For each separate business location not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales, offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, said insurer shall pay an additional license fee of $14.00 per location for the year 1984 and for each year thereafter.
(Code 2003, § 2-5072; Ord. of 9-6-1983, § 2; Ord. of 7-2-1984, § 2)
State Law reference— License fee authorized, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
Sec. 30-95. - Insurance agency license fees; independent insurance agencies, brokers, etc., not otherwise licensed.
There is hereby levied, for the year 1984 and for each year thereafter, an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by Section 30-93, in the amount of $40.00 for each such location within the City.
(Code 2003, § 2-5073; Ord. of 9-6-1983, § 3; Ord. of 7-2-1984, § 3)
State Law reference— License fee authorized, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
Sec. 30-96. - Gross premiums tax imposed—On life insurers.
There is hereby levied, for the year 1984 and for each year thereafter, an annual tax upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the City in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premium received during the calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, means gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by Section 30-93.
(Code 2003, § 2-5074; Ord. of 9-6-1983, § 4)
Sec. 30-97. - Gross premiums tax imposed—On all other insurers.
There is hereby levied, for the year 1984 and for each year thereafter, an annual tax upon each insurer insuring risks within the City in an amount equal to 2.5 percent of the gross direct premiums received during the calendar year, excluding premiums taxed under Section 30-96, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to any license fees paid pursuant to Section 30-93.
(Code 2003, § 2-5075; Ord. of 9-6-1983, § 5)
