[ARTICLE III. - STREET AND SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS][3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 amended the Charter but did not specify specific Charter sections amended; hence inclusion as a separate article. Section numbers have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 121. - [Street improvements authorized; bond issue to finance same].
The aforesaid City of Ocilla, Irwin County, Georgia, through its legally constituted authorities, is hereby authorized and empowered to pave, macadamize, curb, and otherwise improve any or all of the sidewalks, footways, crosswalks, drains, gutters, roads, lanes, alleys, streets, public squares, or other public places, or highways, or any portions thereof within the Corporate Limits of said City, and to assess the cost of such improvements, in whole or in part, against the abutting-property owners, and the owners thereof benefited; and by suitable ordinance of the aforesaid authorities to provide for the apportionment and collection by legal process of such assessments, and to create a lien on such property therefor; and to provide for the issuance of bonds to be known as street-improvement bonds, which may be negotiated, sold, or otherwise hypothecated by said City, or used otherwise in making provisions for the payment of the cost of such improvements; and to authorize the levy and collection of a tax on all the property in said City subject to municipal taxation, to be used in defraying the City's share of the expense of such improvement, in conformity with the provisions of this Act.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 1)
Sec. 122. - [Board of appraisers.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that whenever any of the sidewalks, footways, drains, gutters, streets, roads, lanes, alleys, public squares, highways, or other public places, or any portion thereof, within the limits of said City shall have been authorized under the laws and ordinances thereof to be paved, macadamized, curbed, or otherwise improved, and the contract therefor has been let, and the cost of such improvements has been ascertained, which cost shall include all the expenses incurred by the City incident to such improvements, including the costs of intersections on any street or streets to be paved, the Mayor and Council of said City shall by written resolution appoint a Board of Appraisers consisting of five persons who shall be freeholders of said City of Ocilla, and shall possess the same qualifications as are required by the Charter and ordinances of said City of Ocilla for the office of Mayor; and when said Board is appointed they shall do and perform all the duties provided for in this Act. In the event any member of said Board of Appraisers is disqualified by reason of interest, relationship, or other cause, the Mayor and Council of said City is authorized to appoint in the place of said disqualified member another person as a member of the aforesaid Board. The said Board of Appraisers, within ten days from the date of the resolution appointing said Board, shall file a written report of the appraisal and assessment and apportionment of such expense and cost to the several lots and tracts of land abutting on said street, alley, lane, avenue, or other public place so improved, with the Clerk of Council of said City, in the manner and on the basis herein provided. When such report shall have been returned and filed, the Mayor and Council shall appoint a time for the holding of a session of Council, or shall designate a regular meeting of Council for the hearing of any complaints or objections that may be made concerning said appraisement, apportionment, and assessment as to any such tracts or lots of land abutting on said improvement; and notice of the said session for the said hearing shall be published by the Clerk of Council, once a week for two consecutive weeks, in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Ocilla, and said notice shall provide for an inspection of such report by any property-owner or other party interested in such report. The time fixed for said hearing shall not be less than seven days nor more than fifteen days from the last publication. The said Mayor and Council at said session shall have the power to review and correct said appraisement, apportionment, and assessment, and to hear objections to the same, and to confirm the same, either as made by the said Board or as corrected by said Mayor and Council.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 2)
Sec. 123. - [Special assessments generally.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said Mayor and Council shall by written resolution levy an assessment against the lots or parcels of land abutting on said improvement, in accordance with said appraisement, apportionment, and assessment, as confirmed by the said Mayor and Council, and such assessments shall be due and payable fifteen days after the date of the ordinance levying said assessments, without interest; but each and every owner of property against which such an assessment has been levied shall have the privilege of electing to pay the same in ten equal annual instalments, one of said instalments being payable on the first day of December next succeeding the day of the levy of such assessment, or at such other date or dates as the Mayor and Council may in their discretion fix, and one annual instalment, together with annual or semi-annual interest as fixed by said Mayor and Council, upon the amount remaining unpaid, shall become due and payable on the first day of December each succeeding year, by giving to the City of Ocilla his promissory notes in a form approved by said Mayor and Council for such deferred payments, with proper interest coupons attached thereto, for interest from the date of the ordinance levying said assessments, and payable annually or semi-annually and on such dates as are fixed in said ordinance, which said notes shall not be in satisfaction and extinguishment of said assessments and the lien thereof, but shall be secured by said assessments and the lien thereof on the property against which they have been levied, and said assessments and liens shall be enforced for the payment thereof. Any property-owner, by electing to pay said assessment in ten equal annual instalments, shall be conclusively and forever held to have agreed, admitted, and declared that the said assessment is in every respect a valid lien against his property in accordance with the terms of the ordinance levying said assessments, and shall be forever stopped from contesting the same on any ground whatsoever.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 3)
Sec. 124. - [Suits to set aside special assessment; reassessments.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that no suit shall be sustained to set aside any such assessment, or to enjoin the said Mayor and Council from making any such assessment or levying or collecting any such assessment, or from issuing bonds as hereinafter provided, or providing for their payment as herein authorized, or to contest the validity thereof on any ground or for any reason, unless such suit shall be commenced within sixty days after the passage of the ordinance making such assessment final; provided, that in the event any special assessment shall be found to be invalid or insufficient, either in whole or in part, for any reason whatsoever, the said Mayor and Council may at any time, in the manner provided for the levying of the original assessment, proceed to cause a new assessment to be made and levied, which shall have like force and effect as an original assessment.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 4)
Sec. 125. - [Special assessment lien.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that such special assessment and each instalment thereof, together with the interest thereon, shall be a special lien against the lots, parcels, or tracts of land so assessed, from the date of the resolution levying the assessment, to be equal with the lien for other taxes, and prior and superior to all other liens against such lots, parcels, or tracts of land, and such liens shall continue until such assessments and the interest thereon is fully paid.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 5)
Sec. 126. - [Bonds.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that any time after the date of the passage of the ordinance or resolution apportioning and levying the aforesaid assessment, the Mayor and Council of the City of Ocilla may by written ordinance or resolution provide for the issuance of bonds in the aggregate amount remaining unpaid, which shall bear date as may be fixed and determined in said ordinance or resolution. Said bonds to be of such denomination as said Mayor and Council may determine, which bonds shall in no event become a debt or liability of said City of Ocilla by reason of its issuing the same for the purposes herein specified. One tenth of the amount of such series of bonds with the interest upon the whole amount of such series shall become due and payable on the first day of January next succeeding date of the issuance thereof, and one tenth of the amount of such issue of bonds together with the interest, annual or semi-annual, upon the whole amount thereof remaining unpaid shall be payable on the first day of January in each succeeding year until all of said instalments shall have been paid; said bonds shall bear interest at not exceeding eight per cent per annum from their date until maturity, which interest may be required to be paid annually or semi-annually as said Mayor and Council may determine, and shall be designated "street-improvement bonds," and shall on their face recite the street or streets or other public places for the improvement of which they have been issued, and that they are payable exclusively from assessments which have been levied upon lots, parcels, and tracts of land benefited by such improvements under the authority of this Act; said bonds shall be signed by the Mayor of the City of Ocilla and attested by the Clerk thereof, and shall have thereon the impression of the Corporate Seal of said City, and shall have attached thereto interest coupons; and all bonds issued by virtue of this Act shall be payable at such place, whether within or without the State of Georgia, as may be designated by said Mayor and Council; the proceeds of said bonds shall be applied to the payment of the contract price and other legal expense incurred in making such improvements, or such bonds may be, in whole or in part, negotiated and delivered to the contracting person, persons, firm, firms, corporation or corporations making and having made such improvements, at such price as may be agreed upon in payment of any amount of amounts due upon such contract or contracts, and any portion of the bonds not so negotiated may be sold or otherwise disposed of by the aforesaid authorities of the City of Ocilla and the proceeds applied to improvements; said bonds shall be registered by the Clerk of the City of Ocilla as other bonds are authorized to be registered under the laws of this State, and a certificate of such registration shall be entered upon each of said bonds.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 6)
Sec. 127. - [Collection of assessments.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the assessments provided for and levied under the provisions of this Act shall be payable by the person owning said lots, parcels, or tracts of land on the first day of December of each year, together with interest thereon, to the Clerk of said City of Ocilla, who shall issue proper receipts therefor. The aforesaid officer of the City of Ocilla shall keep an accurate account of all such collections made by him, which shall be kept as a separate fund to be used and applied to the payment of such bonds and the interest thereon, and for no other purpose; and the Mayor and Council of said City of Ocilla is authorized and empowered by proper ordinance to fix the date, or dates, for the payment of all assessments and interest thereon as in their discretion they deem advisable, when not inconsistent with any of the other provisions of this Act relating thereto.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 7)
Sec. 128. - [Executions for assessments.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that upon failure of any property-owner to pay any assessment herein levied, the City of Ocilla is authorized to issue its execution against such property-owner and such property for such sums as may be due, with interest, for such paving and improvements as are made by virtue of this Act, and to enforce the payment thereof by levy and sale, which execution shall be issued and sales thereunder conducted as in case of the issuance of executions and sales for other City taxes, and such sale shall vest in the purchaser absolute title to the property sold, subject to the lien of the remaining unpaid installments with interest, and as against any assessments for the improvements herein provided for, and the enforcement of the same by execution and levy. Any abutting-property owner shall have the right to file an affidavit of illegality, returnable to the Superior Court of Irwin County, Georgia, and to contest the legality of such assessment, which affidavit of illegality shall set forth in detail the reasons why the affiant claims the execution is proceeding illegally; and if any part of said execution is admitted to be due, the affiant shall pay the same to the levying officer before such levying officer shall be required to receive and return said affidavit of illegality to the Superior Court of Irwin County. When said affidavit is filed the same shall be tried and determined as in other cases of illegality, subject to all penalties provided by law in cases where such proceedings are filed for delay only and said affiant shall be required to give bond with good and sufficient security for the payment of costs in the event said illegality is not sustained, or in lieu thereof may file an affidavit in forma pauperis, as provided in claim cases.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 8)
Sec. 129. - [Assessments for sidewalks, curbs, etc.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Mayor and Council in its discretion may assess the whole or any part of the expenses of constructing sidewalks, footwalks, curbing, drains, and gutters along the sides of all public thoroughfares in said City, together with the whole or any part of the cost of all material used in making such street improvements against the property abutting on such thoroughfares, streets, or highways receiving such benefits, which shall be against the property and the owners thereof according to its frontage as is provided in this Act, and the cost of making such other street improvements as are authorized under this Act shall be apportioned and assessed as follows: Not exceeding two-thirds of the cost and expenses of improvements made in pursuance of this Act shall be assessed against the abutting property and its owners on the two sides of the street or other public thoroughfare paved, macadamized, or otherwise improved, according to its front footage and in connection with the other provisions of this Act prescribing the manner in which said apportionment and assessments are to be made, and the balance or residue of such expenses and cost shall be chargeable to and borne by the City of Ocilla, Georgia, which may be paid by the levy and collection of an ad valorem tax or by the issuance of bonds other than the street-improvement bonds authorized by this Act to be issued, or by any funds which may be allotted to Irwin County for the use and benefit of the public streets in the City of Ocilla by the State or Federal Government, or by the State and Federal Government, or either State or Federal public-road funds, or both, and that either of the funds herein provided for may be supplemented by the levy of an ad valorem tax, by the issuance of bonds, or by the State or Federal road funds allotted to the City of Ocilla and the laws of this State. The Mayor and Council of the City of Ocilla, Georgia, are hereby authorized to fix the assessments to be paid by the abutting-land owners on any street, or on any block in said City which is to be paved, at any fractional part of the cost of said improvement, not to exceed the said two thirds thereof, and for that purpose they are to take into consideration the location of the property, the improvements thereon, and the value thereof, and the nearness or remoteness of such street or block from the business or residential section of said City, the presence or absence of parks or boulevards, the width of the street, or any other factor in the discretion of the Mayor and Council, and may use, in their discretion, any basis for fixing the proportion to be paid by the abutting-land owners, but in no event shall such apportionment exceed said two thirds as hereinafter provided for.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 9)
Sec. 130. - Assessments against railroads or County.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that when the right of way of any railroad company crosses any street, highway, or other thoroughfare within the Corporate Limits of said City, such company shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act as the owner of property on both sides of the street, highway, or thoroughfare to the extent of the entire width of the right of way, irrespective of the use to which the same may be put or the portion thereof actually occupied by its tracks. Any and all property owned by Irwin County, lying within the Corporate Limits of said City and abutting any street or highway thereof, shall be assessable for any and all public improvements authorized by this Act, in the same manner and to the same extent as such property would be if owned by any private individual, without regard to the use made by the County of such property; and such assessments made against such property shall be collected from the County by an action at common law against the County, or by such other legal method as is allowed by law for the collection of demands against said County.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 10)
Sec. 131. - [Ordinances authorized.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Council of the City of Ocilla is authorized to enact such ordinance and adopt such resolution or resolutions as may be necessary to carry out the powers herein conferred, as well as to make all necessary provisions for the apportionment, assessment, and collection for all the costs and expenses herein provided for against the abutting property and the owners thereof for such improvements as may be made under this Act, and is authorized and empowered to fix and determine the date or dates for the payment of such assessments and the interest thereon either in annual or semiannual payments.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 11)
Sec. 132. - [Cooperation with state or County.]
[Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the City of Ocilla is authorized and empowered to make all the improvements provided for in this Act independent of or in connection with the authorities of Irwin County having control of the fiscal affairs, the roads and highways thereof, and with the State Highway Department as is now provided by the Acts of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved August 21, 1922, upon such terms as may be fixed by said State Highway Department, not inconsistent with this Act, and make all contracts necessary in connection therewith.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 12)
Sec. 133. - Control of streets, sidewalks, etc.; liability of City for damages.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Council of the City of Ocilla shall have full and complete control of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, and squares of said City, and shall have power and authority to open, lay out, widen, straighten, or otherwise change all streets, sidewalks, alleys, and squares in said City of Ocilla. Whenever the said Mayor and City Council of the City of Ocilla shall exercise the power herein delegated, and shall fail to agree with the owner or owners of the property taken or damaged as to the amount of damage, the said Mayor and City Council of Ocilla shall choose one appraiser, and the owner or the land to be taken or damaged shall choose another appraiser, and the two thus chosen, if they fail to agree, shall select a third appraiser, and the three appraisers thus chosen, after being sworn to do justice between the parties, shall fix the damage to the owner of the property caused by the opening or damaging of such street, alley, or square; and if the property-owner, after five days' notice, shall fail to name an appraiser, the Clerk and Treasurer shall appoint one for him: and in every case where the two appraisers chosen shall, for the space of five days, fail to agree on the third appraiser, the said Clerk and Treasurer shall appoint such appraisers; provided, the said appraisers, whether chosen by the parties or appointed by the Clerk and Treasurer, shall be citizens of said City. The award of the appraisers shall be in writing, and shall be filed within five days in the Clerk's Office of the Superior Court of Irwin County, and shall thereupon operate as a judgment, and execution may issue thereon. Either party may, within ten days from filing of the award, enter an appeal to the Superior Court of Irwin County. All costs, including the fees of the appraisers, shall be paid by the City; and at any stage of the proceedings to condemn, before or after the final award, the Mayor and Council of the City of Ocilla, may, by paying to the property-owner all expenses actually incurred by him, withdraw the proceeding and decline to take the property, or to make the change in such street, alley, sidewalk, or square.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 13)
Sec. 134. - [Paving, repair, etc., assessments.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that when any property of Irwin County abuts upon any sidewalk in said City, the City of Ocilla shall have the power and authority to pave, curb, remove, or repair the same and assess the whole cost of the same against the County, according to frontage; and when such property abuts upon any street, alley, or way that is graded, paved, or otherwise improved by the said City of Ocilla, said City shall have power and authority to assess against said Irwin County its proportionate part of the cost of such grading, paving, or improving, according to frontage, and the method of collection, in case of refusal to pay, shall be by suit against the County commissioners of Irwin County in some Court of competent jurisdiction.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 14)
Sec. 135. - [Payment of assessment in full.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that anyone or more of the owners of the property assessed shall have the privilege of paying the full amount assessed against his property within thirty days from the date of the passage of the resolution levying such assessment, without interest, thereby relieving such property from the lien of such assessment.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 15)
Sec. 136. - [General ad valorem tax authorized.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Ocilla shall have full power and authority and they shall provide by ordinance or resolution for the assessment, levying, and collecting of an ad valorem tax on all property both real and personal, within the Corporate Limits of said City, for the support and maintenance of the government of said City for the purpose of raising the necessary revenue for the carrying out of the provisions of this Act, not exceeding 5% or $5.00 on the $100.00 exclusive of taxes for public schools of said City, and for bond indebtedness.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 16)
[Secs. 137—140. - Reserved.]
