[ARTICLE IV. - NATURAL GAS SYSTEM][4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— The title of 1961 Ga. Laws (Act No.175), page 2500 amended the Charter but the text did not specify specific Charter sections amended; hence inclusion as a separate article. Section numbers have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 141. - [Natural gas system authorized.]
That in addition to the powers and authority which the City of Ocilla, Georgia, now has, said City of Ocilla, Georgia, through its governing authorities is hereby authorized and empowered to combine said City's water system with any gas system hereafter acquired by said City, including a gas system for the purchase, distribution, disposition and sale of gas for public and private uses, together with all necessary appurtenances thereto; to operate, maintain, repair, extend and improve such water system and such gas system as a combined system and to pledge the revenues produced by such combined system to the payment of the principal of and interest on any revenue bonds issued by such City for the purpose of acquiring such gas system and to any reserve and sinking funds provided in connection therewith, including reserves for additions, improvements, extensions, repairs and replacements to such combined system.
(1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 175), page 2500 , § 1)
Sec. 142. - [Implementing ordinances and resolutions.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the power and authority granted in this Act shall be exercised by the Mayor and Council of the City of Ocilla by resolution or resolutions which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority of the members of such governing body and, unless otherwise provided, therein, such resolution or resolutions shall take effect immediately and need not be laid over or published or posted.
(1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 175), page 2500 , § 2)
Sec. 143. - [Repealer.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same hereby are repealed.
(1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 175), page 2500 , § 3)
[Secs. 144—150. - Reserved.]
