[ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL]

Sec. 1. - [City incorporated; general powers.]
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That from and after the passage of this Act the inhabitants of the territory now embraced in and known and heretofore incorporated in the Town of Ocilla, in Irwin County, Georgia, by an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved November 24, 1897, and any amendatory or subsequent Acts, and embraced at present in the territory hereinafter described and bounded in section 2 of this Act, be, and they are, hereby incorporated under the name and style of "the City of Ocilla," in Irwin County, Georgia, and the City of Ocilla is hereby Chartered and made a City under said corporate name, and by that name is established, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, and are hereby vested with all the rights, powers and privileges incident to municipal corporations in this State or cities thereof, and all rights, powers, titles, property, easements and hereditaments now belonging and in anywise appertaining to said Town of Ocilla, or the Mayor and Aldermen of Ocilla, as heretofore incorporated, shall be, and are, hereby vested in the City of Ocilla, as created by this Act; and the said City of Ocilla, in Irwin County, Georgia, created, established and declared by this Act, may sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with, plead and be impleaded, have and use a common seal, make and enact through its Mayor and Aldermen such ordinances, rules, regulations and resolutions for the transaction of its business and for the welfare and proper government of said City as said Mayor and Aldermen deem best and not inconsistent with the laws of Georgia and the United States; and the said City of Ocilla shall be capable in law to purchase, hold, enjoy, receive, possess and retain in perpetuity, or for any term of years, any estate or estates, real and personal, lands, tenements, hereditaments of any kind, whether within or without the Corporate Limits of said City, for corporate or municipal purposes, and to sell, alien, exchange or lease the same, or any part thereof. The said City of Ocilla, created by this Act, is hereby made responsible as a body corporate for the legal debts and liabilities and undertakings of said Town of Ocilla, or the Mayor and Aldermen of Ocilla heretofore incorporated, and the present Mayor and Aldermen of the Town of Ocilla, to wit: J. J. Walker, who is at this time Acting Mayor of the Town of Ocilla; and J. A. J. Henderson, J. W. Paulk, J. H. Powell, W. W. Peacock, C. A. J. Harper, who are at this time acting as Aldermen of said Town of Ocilla, shall each and all continue in office as said Mayor and said Aldermen, respectively, as the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Ocilla, incorporated under this Act, until their present term of office expires, or their successors are elected and qualified, and all other officers of the Town of Ocilla shall continue in office until their present term expires or their successors are elected and qualified.
Sec. 2. - [Corporate limits generally.]
Be it further enacted, That the Corporate Limits and boundaries of said City of Ocilla shall be known and designated as follows: Beginning at the northeast corner of original lot of land number 42 in the fifth land district of Irwin County, Georgia, and from thence running west along the north original line of said lot number forty-two (42) of said lot a distance nine hundred feet (900'), thence due south a distance of 2,766 feet more or less to the north margin of Fifth Street as shown on the official map of said City of Ocilla, thence east along the north margin of said street a distance of nine hundred feet (900') more or less to the east original line of said lot of land number forty-two (42), thence south along the east original line of said lot number forty-two (42) to the southeast corner of said lot of land number forty-two (42), thence to run west along the southern line of said lot of land number forty-two (42) to the right of way of the Seaboard Air Line Railway Company, thence in a southeasterly direction along the east side of the right of way of said railway company to the terminus of the same, thence continuing in the same direction along the east side of the old right of way of the Ocilla Southern Railway Company to a point two hundred and fifty feet (250') south of south Boulevard, thence in a straight line west to the west side of Beech Street extended, thence north to the south side of South Boulevard, thence due west along South Boulevard to the west side of Apple Street extended, thence north along Apple Street extended and Apple Street to the South side of First Street, thence west along the south side of First Street to the west side of Almond Street, thence along the west side of Almond Street north to the south side of Second Street, thence along the south side of Second Street west to the west side of Arborvitae Street, thence north along the west side of Arborvitae Street a straight line to the north margin of Seventh Street extended, thence east along the north margin of said Seventh Street to branch east of residence of D. D. Hudson, thence northeast up the run of said branch to the north margin of the Old right of way the Atlanta, Birmingham and Atlantic Railroad, thence west to the west margin of Quincey Avenue, thence north along the west margin of Quincey Avenue a distance of two hundred and seventy-one yards (271), thence east a distance of four hundred and twenty-seven yards (427) to the west side of Irwin Avenue, thence north along the west side of Irwin Avenue to the right of way of the Seaboard Air Line Railway, thence in a northerly direction along the west side of the right of way of said Seaboard Air Line Railway to a point on the north margin of Pine Street extended west, thence east along the north margin of Pine Street extended and Pine Street in what is known as Pine Hill Addition to the City of Ocilla, to the east margin of College Street as shown on the official map of the City of Ocilla, Georgia, approved in 1913, thence south along the east margin of College Street a distance of eight hundred and fifty feet (850'), thence east to the original land line dividing original lots of land numbers five (5) and six (6) in the fifth land district of Irwin County intersecting said line at a point seven hundred and ninety-eight feet (79'8) north of the northeast corner of said lot of land number forty-two (42), thence south along said line dividing original lots of land numbers five (5) and six (6) to the northeast corner of said lot number forty-two (42), the starting point.
(1905 Ga. Laws (Act No. 564), page 1023 , § 1; 1907 Ga. Laws (Act No. 222), page 861 , § 1; 1909 Ga. Laws (Act No. 248), page 1202 , § 1; 1913 Ga. Laws (Act No. 81), page 1084 , § 1; 1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 149), page 1164 , § 1)
Editor's note— 1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 149), page 1164 , § 1 amended the Charter without specifying a specific section. The editor has treated it as an amendment to Charter § 2.
Sec. 2A. - [Corporate limits; 1965 annexation.]
In addition to the present Corporate Limits from and after the passage of this Act the Corporate Limits of the City of Ocilla shall embrace all that tract or parcel of land embraced within the right-of-way of U.S. Highway Number 129 extending from the intersection of Pine Street and Irwin Avenue and being more particularly described as beginning at a point on the west side of U.S. Highway number 129 at the point of intersection where the north City limits line of the City of Ocilla intersects the west right-of-way line of U.S. Highway number 129 and from thence in a northernly direction 6 feet along the west right-of-way line of U.S. Highway number 129 to a point; thence in an easterly direction 10 feet along said right-of-way line to a point; thence in a northernly direction 295 feet along said west right-of-way line to a point; thence in a westernly [westerly] direction 10 feet along said right-of-way line to a point; thence in a northernly direction 932 feet along said west right-of-way line to a point; thence in an easternly direction 10 feet along said right-of-way line to a point; thence in a northernly direction 82 feet along the west right-of-way line to a point; thence in a westerly direction 10 feet along said right-of-way line to a point; thence 6507 feet in a northernly direction along said west right-of-way to a point where the north land line of land lot number 308 in the 4th land district of Irwin County, Georgia, intersects the said west right-of-way line of said U.S. Highway number 129; thence in a westernly [westerly] direction 10 feet along said land lot line and said west right-of-way to a point; thence in a northernly direction 519 feet along said west right-of-way line to a point; thence in an easterly direction 100 feet to a point on the eastern right-of-way line of said U.S. Highway number 129 519 feet north of the north land lot line of land lot number 308 in the 4th land district of Irwin County, Georgia; thence in a southernly direction 519 feet along the east right-of-way line of U.S. Highway number 129 to a point on the north land lot line of land lot number 308 in the 4th land district of Irwin County, Georgia; thence in a westernly [westerly] direction 10 feet along the said north land lot line of land lot number 308 and the east right-of-way line of U.S. Highway number 129 to a point; thence in a southernly direction 5918 feet along the east right-of-way line of U.S. Highway number 129 to a point; thence in a westernly [westerly] direction 10 feet along the said east right-of-way to a point; thence in a southernly direction 658 feet along the east right-of-way line of U.S. Highway number 129 to a point; thence in an easternly direction 10 feet along said right-of-way to a point; thence in a southernly direction 1040 feet along the east right-of-way of said U.S. Highway number 129 to a point where the said east right-of-way line of said U.S. Highway number 129 intersects the north City limits line of the City of Ocilla, Irwin County, Georgia; thence in a westernly [westerly] direction 80 feet along the said north City limits line of the City of Ocilla, Irwin County, Georgia, to the point of beginning. Said above described lands being and lying in land lots number 5 in the 5th land district and land lots numbers 307 and 308 in the 4th land district of Irwin County, Georgia. All according to a plat of survey dated March 2, 1965, made by S. Y. A. Ball, Georgia Registered Land Surveyor, which is recorded in the office of the City Clerk of Ocilla, Georgia, and also a copy filed of record in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court, Irwin County, Georgia.
(1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 347), page 2953 , § 1)
Sec. 2B. - [Corporate limits; 1972 annexation.]
In addition to the present Corporate Limits from and after the passage of this Act the Corporate Limits of the City of Ocilla shall embrace all that tract or parcel of land within a graded road which leads northward from Pine Street and then extends eastward ending at the northwest right-of-way line of the Ocilla-Osierfield-Frank Paved Road, all in Land Lot No. 5 in the Fifth Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: COMMENCING at a point at the intersection of the east right-of-way line of Irwin Avenue and the north right-of-way line of Pine Street in the City Limits of Ocilla and extending along the north right-of-way line of Pine Street and present City Limits line for said City of Ocilla, south 89 degrees east 2,849 feet to an agreed corner marked by an iron pin and call this the point of beginning; thence running along the west boundary of a graded road and a fence north 0 degrees 10 minutes west 658 feet to an agreed corner marked by an iron pin, thence continuing south 87 degrees 58 minutes east along a wire fence in the north boundary line of said graded road 1575.8 feet to an iron pin on the west right-of-way line of the Ocilla-Osierfield-Frank Paved Road, thence along said right-of-way line south 35 degrees 14 minutes west 36 feet to an agreed corner marked by an iron pin, thence running along the south boundary line of said graded road north 87 degrees 58 minutes west 1,526.2 feet to an agreed corner marked by an iron pin, thence running along the east boundary line of said graded road south 0 degrees 10 minutes east 627.5 feet to the north boundary line of Pine Street and the City limits of Ocilla, thence along said north boundary line of said Pine Street north 89 degrees west 30 feet to an iron pin, the point of beginning. Said tract containing 1.51 acres in Land Lot No. 5 in the Fifth Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, and being more accurately described by plat of survey by Oswin Hilton, County Surveyor, Irwin County, Georgia, dated January 28, 1972, a copy of said plat being recorded in the office of the City Clerk of Ocilla, Georgia, and also a copy filed of record in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court, Irwin County, Georgia.
The above described tract takes in no private property and embraces said public road only.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1081), page 2792 , § 1)
Sec. 2C. - [Corporate limits; 1973 annexation.]
In addition to the present Corporate Limits from and after the passage of this Act, the Corporate Limits of the City of Ocilla shall embrace all that tract or parcel of land within a rural paved road known as the Ocilla-Osierfield-Frank Paved Road and its present right-of-way, all in Land Lot No. 5 and 6 in the Fifth Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
COMMENCING at a point on the West right-of-way line of the Ocilla-Osierfield-Frank Paved Road where said road intersects the present northeastward City Limits line of said City and running thence across said Ocilla-Osierfield-Frank Paved Road and its right-of-way line to the south-east right-of-way line of said road; and then running along the southeast right-of-way line of said road North 35 degrees 14 minutes east 1,595.12 feet to a point in the beginning of a curve; thence continuing along said curve and along the northeast right-of-way line of said road to a point where the north original line of Land Lot No. 6 intersects said road. Thence running along said Land Lot line north 88 degrees 43 minutes west 80 feet to the northwest right-of-way line of said public road. Thence continuing along the northwest right-of-way line of said public road in a south-easterly direction along said boundary line and right-of-way line of said road to the intersection of a graded public road and the Ocilla-Osierfield-Frank Public Paved Road which is the present northeast boundary of the City Limits of Ocilla, the Place of Beginning. The above described tract takes in no private property and embraces said public road only.
(1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 725), page 3802 , § 1)
Sec. 2D. - [Corporate limits; 1978 annexation.]
In addition to the present Corporate Limits, the Corporate Limits of the City of Ocilla shall embrace the following tracts and parcels of property:
TRACT ONE:
•
PARCEL A: A strip of land being 60 feet in width in Land Lot No. 51 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as BEGINNING at the point where the South City Limits line of the City of Ocilla intersects [intersects] the East right-of-way line of Oak Street and run thence South 2 degrees 12 minutes West 1,737.22 feet to the center line of Lax Road; thence run North 87 degrees 20 minutes West 60 feet to a point; thence run North 2 degrees 21 minutes East 1,737.22 feet to the said South City Limits line of said City; thence run East 60 feet to the point of beginning.
•
PARCEL B: A strip of land being 100 feet in width in Land Lot No. 51 and 52 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as BEGINNING at the point where the East City Limits line of the City of Ocilla intersects the North right-of-way line of Lax Road and run South 87 degrees 25 minutes East 1,580.70 feet to a point; thence run South 87 degrees 20 minutes East 212.72 feet to a point; thence run the following courses and distances, measured for survey along the center line of said Lax Road to-wit: South 87 degrees 20 minutes East 1,447.06 feet; thence 1,034.16 feet along center line of curve to a point; thence South 35 degrees 20 minutes East 2,878.97 feet to a point being the new City Limits line; thence run Southwesterly 100 feet to the Southwesterly right-of-way line of said Lax Road; thence run North 35 degrees 20 minutes West 2,878.97 feet; thence run 1,034.16 feet along center line of curve; thence run North 87 degrees 20 minutes West 1,447.06 feet to a point; thence North 87 degrees 20 minutes West 212.72 feet to a point; thence North 87 degrees 25 minutes West 1,580.70 feet to the said East old City Limits line of Ocilla; thence run North 100 feet to the point of beginning.
•
PARCEL C: A strip of land 100 feet in width in Land Lot No. 51 and 88 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as BEGINNING at the point where the Westerly right-of-way line of Brushy Creek Church Road intersects the South right-of-way line of Lax Road and run South 9 degrees 15 minutes East 4,494.39 feet to a point; thence run South 630.07 feet to a point being the new South City Limits line of said City of Ocilla; thence run Westerly 100 feet to the West right-of-way line of said Brushy Creek Church Road; thence run North 630.07 feet along the West right-of-way line of said Brushy Creek Church Road to a point; thence run North 9 degrees 15 minutes West 4,494.39 feet to a point where the South line of Brushy Creek Church Road intersects the South right-of-way of Lax Road; thence run East 100 feet to the point of beginning.
All of said three above parcels (A, B, and C) are as shown on that certain plat of survey by Carlton Evans, Registered Land Surveyor, dated 3-3-1977, and of record in the office of the Clerk of said City of Ocilla.
TRACT TWO:
•
PARCEL A: A strip or parcel of land in Land Lot Numbers 50, 51 and 89 all in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as BEGINNING at the point where the old South City Limits line of the City of Ocilla intersects the Eastern right-of-way line of U.S. Highway No. 129 and run thence along said right-of-way the following courses and distances, measured by survey, along the center line of said highway, to-wit: South 2 degrees 34 minutes West 414.2 feet to a point; East 20 feet to a point; thence run South 2 degrees 34 minutes West 224.24 feet; thence Southernly 1,354.22 feet; thence South 19 degrees 29 minutes West 588.12 feet; thence Southernly 1,872.51 feet; thence South 0 degrees 44 minutes West 2,886.82 feet to a point; thence run West 100 feet to the Western right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 129; thence run along said right-of-way line North 0 degrees 44 minutes East 2,886.82 feet; thence run Northernly 1,872.51 feet; thence run North 19 degrees 29 minutes East 588.12 feet; thence Northernly 1,354.22 feet; thence North 2 degrees 34 minutes East 224.24 feet; thence run Easterly 20 feet to a point; thence run North 2 degrees 34 minutes East 414.2 feet to the point where the Westerly right-of-way line intersects the old Southern City Limits line of the City of Ocilla; thence run East 60 feet to the point of beginning. The land herein described is the right-of-way lands only in said U.S. Highway No. 129 South.
•
PARCEL B: A strip of land in Land Lot Numbers 50 and 51 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as BEGINNING at the point where the Western City Limits line of the City of Ocilla intersects the Southern right-of-way line of the Five Bridges Road and run thence along the said right-of-way line the following courses and distances: North 87 degrees 27 minutes West 853.08 feet; thence run Southernly 20 feet; thence run along the Southern right-of-way line 1,692.98 feet; thence South 42 degrees 13 minutes West 2,566.73 feet to a point; thence run Northwesterly 100 feet to a point on the Northern right-of-way line of said Five Bridges Road; thence run the following courses and distances along the said Northern right-of-way line of said Five Bridges Road, to-wit: North 42 degrees 13 minutes East 2,566.73 feet; thence 1,692.98 feet to a point; thence run Southernly 20 feet to a point; thence run South 87 degrees 27 minutes East 853.08 feet to a point; thence run Southernly 60 feet to the point of beginning. The land herein described is the right-of-way lands only in said Five Bridges Road.
All of the herein above described lands all as shown on that certain plat of survey by Carlton Evans, Registered Land Surveyor, dated 3-4-1977 and is on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Ocilla, Irwin County, Georgia.
TRACT THREE:
•
PARCEL A: A strip of land being 50 feet in width in Land Lot No. 43 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as BEGINNING at the point where the North right-of-way line of 8th Street Extended intersects the East right-of-way line of Old Fitzgerald Road and run thence South 86 degrees 22 minutes East 1,830.06 feet along the said North right-of-way line of said 8th Street Extended to the point where the same intersects the West right-of-way line of Alder Street, in the City of Ocilla; thence run South 50 feet to the South right-of-way line of said 8th Street Extended; thence run North 86 degrees 22 minutes West 1,830.06 feet along the said South right-of-way line of said 8th Street Extended to the point where the same intersects the East right-of-way line of said Old Fitzgerald Road; thence run North 50 feet to the point of beginning. The land herein described is the right-of-way lands only in said 8th Street Extended.
•
PARCEL B: A strip of land being 50 feet in width in Land Lot No. 4 and 5 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as BEGINNING at the point where the South right-of-way line of Cargile Road intersects the West right-of-way line of U.S. Highway No. 129 and run thence North 85 degrees 52 minutes West 2,693.44 feet along the said South right-of-way line of said Cargile Road to the point where the same intersects the East right-of-way line of Old Fitzgerald Road; thence run North 50 feet to the North right-of-way line of said Cargile Road; thence run South 85 degrees 52 minutes East 2,693.44 feet along the said North right-of-way line of said Cargile Road to the point where the same intersects the West right-of-way line of U.S. Highway No. 129; thence run South 50 feet to the point of beginning. The land herein described is the right-of-way lands only in said Cargile Road.
•
PARCEL C: A strip of land being 80 feet in width in Land Lot Numbers 4 and 43 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as BEGINNING at the point where the West right-of-way line of Old Fitzgerald Road intersects the North Old City Limits line of the City of Ocilla and run thence the following courses and distances along the said West right-of-way line of said Old Fitzgerald Road to-wit: North 3 degrees 49 minutes East 2,894.36 feet; thence run 933.93 feet to a point; thence run North 33 degrees 37 minutes West 1,024.05 feet to a point; thence run Northeasterly 80 feet to a point on the East right-of-way line of said Old Fitzgerald road; thence run the following courses and distances along the said East right-of-way line of said Old Fitzgerald Road, to-wit: South 33 degrees 37 minutes East 1,024.05 feet to a point; thence run 933.93 feet to a point; thence run South 3 degrees 49 minutes West 2,894.36 feet to the point where the said East right-of-way line of said Old Fitzgerald Road intersects the North Old City Limits line of the City of Ocilla; thence run Westerly 80 feet to the point of beginning. The land herein described is the right-of-way lands only in said Old Fitzgerald Road.
All of said three above parcels (A, B, & C) as shown on that certain plat of survey by Carlton Evans, Registered Land Surveyor, dated 3-3-1977, and is on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Ocilla, Irwin County, Georgia.
TRACT FOUR:
•
PARCEL A: A strip of land being 114.36 feet in width in Land Lots Numbers 43, 44 and 49 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as BEGINNING at the point where the Southern right-of-way line of Highway No. 319 intersects the Western City Limits line of the City of Ocilla thence run along the said Southern right-of-way of said Highway No. 319 South 58 degrees 05 minutes West 5,423.90 feet to a point; thence run Northwesterly 114.36 feet to a point on the Northern right-of-way line of said Highway No. 319; thence run along the said Northern right-of-way line of said Highway No. 319 North 58 degrees 05 minutes East 5,423.90 feet to a point where the said right-of-way line intersects the old Western City Limits line of Ocilla; thence run South 1 degree 25 minutes West 114.36 feet to the point of beginning. The land herein described is the right-of-way lands only in said Highway No. 319.
•
PARCEL B: A strip of land being 100 feet in width in Land Lot Numbers 43, 44 and 45 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as BEGINNING at the point where the Southern right-of-way line of Highway No. 32 intersects the Western City Limits line of the City of Ocilla; thence run the following courses and distances along the said Southern right-of-way line of said Highway No. 32: North 88 degrees 38 minutes West 2307.35 feet; thence Westerly 2,595.76 feet; thence North 63 degrees 00 minutes West 1,813.02 feet to a point; thence run North 27 degrees East 100 feet to a point on the Northern right-of-way line of said Highway No. 32; thence run the following courses and distances along the said Northern right-of-way line of said Highway No. 32 South 63 degrees 00 minutes East 1,813.02 feet; thence Easterly 2,551.01 feet; thence South 88 degrees 38 minutes East 2,307.71 feet; thence South 1 degree 34 minutes West 100.01 feet to the point of beginning. The land herein described is the right-of-way lands only in said Highway No. 32.
All of said above two parcels (A and B) as shown on that certain plat of survey by Carlton Evans, Registered Land Surveyor, dated 3-2-1977, and is on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Ocilla, Irwin County, Georgia.
TRACT FIVE:
A strip of land being 60 feet in width in Land Lot Numbers 41 and 42 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as follows: BEGINNING at the point where the old Eastern City Limits line of Ocilla intersects the Northern right-of-way line of Georgia Highway Number 32 and run thence along said right-of-way line the following courses and distances, measured and allocated by survey, to the center line of the said road, to-wit: South 68 degrees 00 minutes East 475.43 feet; thence South 89 degrees 57 minutes East 3,717.55 feet to a point; thence run South a distance of 60 feet, more or less, to the Southern right-of-way line of said highway; thence run along the said Southern right-of-way line the following courses and distances, measured and allocated by survey, to the center line of the said road, to-wit: North 89 degrees 57 minutes West 3,717.55 feet; thence North 68 degrees 00 minutes West 475.43 feet to the point where the old Eastern City Limits line of the City of Ocilla intersects the Southern right-of-way line of said Georgia Highway No. 32; thence run North along the said old City limits line of said City a distance of 60 feet to the point of beginning. The land herein described is the right-of-way lands only in said Georgia Highway No. 32 all as shown by plat of survey by Carlton Evans, Registered Land Surveyor, dated 3-5-77 and is on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Ocilla, Irwin County, Georgia.
TRACT SIX:
A strip or parcel of land being 80 feet in width in Land Lot Number 6 in the 5th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, described as follows: BEGINNING at the point where the old City Limits line intersects the Northeastern right-of-way line of the Ocilla-Frank Paved Road and run thence along said right-of-way line the following courses and distances, measured and allocated by survey, to the center of the said road, to-wit: North 34 degrees 28 minutes East 1,561.13 feet; thence along the center line of curve 882.81 feet; thence North 55 degrees 47 minutes East 2,957.39 feet to a corner; thence run Southeasterly a distance of 80 feet to the Eastern right-of-way line of the said Ocilla-Frank Road to a corner; thence run along said Eastern right-of-way line the following courses and distances, measured and allocated by survey, to the center of the said road, to-wit: South 55 degrees 47 minutes West 2,957.39 feet; thence along the center line of curve 882.81 feet; thence South 34 degrees 28 minutes West 1,561.13 feet to a corner; thence Northwesterly 80 feet to the point of beginning. The land herein described is the right-of-way lands only in said Ocilla-Frank Road. All as shown by plat of survey by Carlton Evans, Registered Land Surveyor, dated 4-20-1977 and is on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Ocilla, Irwin County, Georgia.
TRACT SEVEN:
Parcel A: A strip of land in Land Lot No. 307 in the 4th Land District of Irwin County, Georgia, and being described as BEGINNING at the point where the center of Frank Church Road intersects the Western right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 129 North and run thence along the Western right-of-way line of said U.S. Highway 129 North 7 degrees 28 minutes East 680.11 feet; thence North along a curve 536.58 feet; thence North 20 degrees 12 minutes East 1,748.81 feet to a point; thence run Southeasterly 100 feet to the Eastern right-of-way line of said U.S. Highway No. 129; thence run along the Eastern right-of-way line of said U.S. Highway No. 129 South 20 degrees 12 minutes West 1,748.81 feet; thence Southeasternly [Southeasterly] along a curve 536.58 feet; thence South 7 degrees 28 minutes West 680.11 feet to the center line of said Frank Church Road; thence run Westerly 100 feet to the point of beginning. The property herein described is only the land within the right-of-way of said U.S. Highway Number 129 North. All as shown on that certain Plat of Survey by Carlton Evans, Registered Surveyor, dated 3-5-1977, and being on file in the Office of the City Clerk of the City of Ocilla, Irwin County, Georgia, and being designated as Parcel A on said Plat.
(1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 880), page 3418 , § 2)
Sec. 3. - [Elections generally.]
On the first Tuesday in November in each year an election shall be conducted in the City of Ocilla for the purpose of electing candidates to succeed the City officials whose terms shall expire during that year. In order to be elected, a candidate shall receive a majority of the votes cast for the office for which he offers as a candidate. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, there shall be a runoff election between the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes cast for the office. Said election shall be held 14 days after the regular municipal election under the same laws, rules and regulations governing regular City elections. The Mayor and each Councilman shall assume office by taking the appropriate oath on the first day of January following their election and shall serve for a term of two years each and until their successors are elected and qualified. If from any cause any municipal election herein provided for, or to be ordered by the Mayor and Councilmen for any purpose, shall not be held on the day previously fixed, then it shall be the duty of the Mayor and Councilmen to order such election held to be held on a day named by them within thirty days from the day any such election should have occurred, but failed to occur; and they shall give ten days' notice of any such election ordered by them to the public by publication of the same at the door of the Council Chamber of the City and also in some public gazette published in the City or having a general circulation therein. All municipal elections held in said City shall be held at the usual place of holding the regular meetings of the Mayor and Councilmen for the transaction of official business in the City or at any other convenient and accessible place therein, to be selected and designated by the Mayor and Councilmen before the day of holding the same, and the voting in all elections for whatever purpose held therein shall be by printed or written ballot.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 9; 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 17; 1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 288), page 2893 , § 1)
Editor's note— 1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 288), page 2893 , § 1 purported to amend section 2 of the Charter. It has been treated as an amendment to section 3.
[Sec. 3.1. - Election date and date terms of office begin.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the present Mayor and Aldermen and the present members of the Board of Education shall continue in office until their present term expires and until their successors are elected and qualified; that all future officers which are elected by the vote of the people under the Charter of the City of Ocilla, and all future members of the Board of Education elected by the voters of the City of Ocilla, elected on the first Tuesday in November of each year as herein provided, shall begin their term of office on the first day of January following their election.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 19)
Editor's note— 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 19 did not specifically amend the Charter. It has editorially been designated as section 3.1.
[Sec. 3.2. - Registration of voters.]
Be it further enacted by the authority of the aforesaid, that the City Clerk and Treasurer of the City of Ocilla is required to keep a book to be called a permanent registration book, upon which all persons desiring to qualify as electors in said City shall be required to qualify as now required by provisions of the Charter of the City of Ocilla. Such qualified voters shall sign their names in alphabetical order, and shall be subject to examination by the Board of Registrators of the City of Ocilla, as is now provided by the Charter of said City. Such qualified voters, after registering in the permanent registration book, shall not be required to register again for any future elections to be held in the City of Ocilla, except as hereinafter provided; provided, however, that the City Clerk shall be required to provide a new permanent registration book once every ten years, and all qualified voters of the City of Ocilla shall be required to again register in such new permanent registration book as hereinbefore set out; and provided further, that after being so registered in any of the permanent registration books, such electors shall be subject to be stricken off of the permanent registration book for any cause as now authorized by law or under the Charter of the City of Ocilla.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 20)
Editor's note— 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 24), page 1448 , § 20 did not specifically amend the Charter. It has editorially been designated as section 3.2.
Sec. 4. - [Election managers; poll place hours; conduct of elections generally.]
That all elections held under the provisions of this Charter, and all elections in which any subject or question is submitted to the qualified voters of said City of Ocilla, shall be superintended and managed by a justice of the peace and two freeholders who are citizens of said City and own real estate therein, or by three freeholders, all of whom shall be citizens of said City and own real estate therein. Said freeholders shall, previously before the day of election, be selected by the Mayor and Councilmen, and all managers, before entering upon his or their duties, shall take and subscribe before the Mayor of said City, or some other officer qualified to administer an oath, or before each other, the following oath: 'We, and each of us, do solemnly swear that we will faithfully and impartially conduct this election, to be held on this day, in the City of Ocilla; that we will make a just and true return thereof, and not knowingly permit any one to vote unless we believe he is entitled to do so, nor knowingly prevent any one from voting who is so entitled by law, and will not divulge for whom any vote was cast, nor on what side of any issue any vote was cast, unless called on under the law to do; so help us God.' Said managers shall keep, or cause to be kept, two lists of voters and two tally-sheets. The polls shall be opened at seven o'clock a.m. and shall be closed at six o'clock p.m. Said elections shall be held under the form and regulations prescribed by law for holding elections for members of the General Assembly, in so far as they are applicable to said elections and do not conflict with the specific rules herein contained; and all municipal elections held in said City at any time and for any purpose whatever shall be held in the same manner and as near uniform as practicable.
(1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 288), page 2893 , § 2)
Editor's note— The above section is superseded by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.
Sec. 5. - How election results declared and certified.
Be it further enacted, That the Superintendents of Elections shall promptly and duly declare the result of said elections, and shall duly issue their certificate signed by each of them, certifying the result of the same to the Mayor and Aldermen of said City, and certificates of election to all candidates or parties elected to any office in said City and receiving the highest number of votes polled, and the oath taken by said managers, their certificate to the Mayor and Aldermen certifying to the result of each election, together with one of the lists of voters and one tally-sheet used and kept in each election, shall be duly delivered by one of their number to the City Clerk, under the hands and seals of said managers, and shall promptly deliver to the Ordinary of Irwin County under their hands and seals, in a sealed package, all the tickets, one list of voters and one tally-sheet, to be delivered by any one of said managers without alteration to said Ordinary within three days of the time of holding said election, to be safely kept in the office of the Ordinary of said County for at least thirty days, and then the same may be destroyed as delivered to him, unless a contest is filed to the result so declared by the managers; and in that event all of said papers and tickets shall be preserved till said contest is finally terminated, and the papers so delivered to the City Clerk by said managers shall be safely preserved without alteration by him until the first meeting of the Mayor and Aldermen after the holding of said election, at which time he shall deliver the same to them in open meeting; and it is made the duty of the Mayor and Aldermen to cause the same to be opened and inspected by their body and see that the result so declared is correctly done, and to call in the managers of said election to correct any technical error made by them, if any, and then all of said election papers shall be turned over to the City Clerk and by him safely preserved in his office as public files, to be taken out only by order of some Court of law or the Mayor and Aldermen of said City.
Editor's note— The above section is superseded by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.
Sec. 6. - [Contesting elections.]
Be it further enacted, That if the result of any election held in said City is contested, notice of such contest shall be filed with said Ordinary within three days after said election, setting forth all the grounds of contest, and the Ordinary shall, within two days after he receives the same, cause a copy of said notice, with his process attached, to be served by the Sheriff of Irwin County, or his deputy, on the contestee. If said contest is for an office, and if the result of any election in which any question is submitted is contested, then said Ordinary shall cause said copy, notice, etc. to be served on the Mayor of said City, and said Sheriff shall receive the same fees in contest cases as allowed him in serving similar papers in the Superior Courts. All service of papers herein provided shall be by serving the parties personally, or leaving the same at the most notorious place of abode of the party served. Said Ordinary shall fix the time and place of hearing all such contests, which shall not be earlier than five days after service has been perfected, of which time and place both parties shall have five days' notice before the hearing. Said Ordinary shall have original jurisdiction in contests; is authorized to hear and determine the same, giving the contestee as speedy trial of the issues raised, and assess the costs of the proceedings against the losing party or parties, and enter the same as part of his decisions and judgment, and issue executions.
Editor's note— The above section is superseded by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-520 et seq.
Sec. 7. - [Persons eligible to vote.]
Be it further enacted, That every male citizen of the City of Ocilla, incorporated under this Act, twenty-one years of age, who shall have resided in this State one year next preceding the election, and six months within the Corporate Limits of the City next preceding the election, and shall have paid all lawful taxes which may have been required of him, either State, County or municipal, and which he may have had opportunity to pay agreeable to law, except for the year of the election, and the payment of all licenses and registration fees required of him by said City, and who is registered according to the laws of said City, and who is qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly and not convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude and not pardoned, shall be qualified to vote at any election held in and for said City of Ocilla for any purpose whatever.
Editor's note— The above section is superseded by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-216.
Sec. 8. - [Qualifications of Mayor and Aldermen.]
Be it further enacted, that no person shall be eligible to the office of Mayor or Aldermen of said City unless he be a citizen of the same, and of the age of twenty-one years, and has resided in said City one year prior to his election to either of said offices, and shall be a citizen of the United States. The Board of Registrars is hereby authorized and directed to review the qualifications of all candidates in City elections to determine if said candidates are eligible to seek office in said City. If the Board of Registrars determines that a candidate is ineligible to seek office in said City, the name of such candidate shall not be placed on the ballot. No alderman shall be eligible or qualified to become a candidate for the office of Mayor of the City of Ocilla if his term of office as alderman extends beyond the date on which he would take office as Mayor if elected to such office of Mayor, unless such alderman first resigns his seat as alderman before qualifying as a candidate for the office of Mayor. An alderman shall not be required to resign his office of alderman if his term of office as an alderman does not extend beyond the date on which he would take office as Mayor if elected to such office
(1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 288), page 2893 , § 3; 1974 Ga. Laws (vol. 2) (Act No. 868), page 2302 , § 1)
Sec. 9. - [Oath of Mayor and Aldermen.]
Be it further enacted, That before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, the Mayor and each alderman shall take and subscribe to the following oath: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully discharge all the duties devolving on me as Mayor (or Aldermen, as the case may be) of the City of Ocilla, Georgia, during my continuance in office, according to the best of my ability, without partiality or bias, and I will support and defend the Constitution of the State of Georgia and the United States; so help me God."
Sec. 10. - [Vacancies in office of Mayor or Aldermen.]
In the event a vacancy shall occur in the office of Mayor or Aldermen, at any time other than within the six-month period immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office in which the vacancy shall occur, the vacancy shall be filled by a special election which shall be held within 45 days after the vacancy shall occur. In the event the vacancy shall occur within the six-month period immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office, the vacancy shall be filled as follows:
(a)
In the event the vacancy shall occur in the office of Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem. shall fill the vacancy and the Aldermen shall select a successor to fill the vacant position of alderman created by the Mayor Pro Tem's succession to the office of Mayor.
(b)
In the event the vacancy shall occur in the office of Aldermen, the remaining Aldermen shall select a successor to serve out the unexpired term of office.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1006), page 2553 , § 1)
Sec. 11. - [Mayor Pro Tem.]
Be it further enacted, That said Mayor and Aldermen, at their first meeting in each year, shall elect one of said Aldermen Mayor Pro Tem., who shall, in case of vacancy, absence or disqualification of the Mayor elected, perform and discharge all the duties and exercise all authority of the office of Mayor, upon taking the usual oath, and not otherwise.
Sec. 12. - [Other officers authorized.]
Be it further enacted, That said Mayor and Aldermen shall have the authority to elect a City Clerk and Treasurer, marshal (who shall be chief of police), policemen, City physician, City attorney, City Superintendent of the Water and Electric Light Plant, Chief of Fire Department, and a recorder and such other subordinate officers in and for said City of Ocilla as they may deem necessary and proper, and by ordinances, rules and regulations prescribe their salaries, duties, oath of office, and remove either of them from office, or impose fines and penalties, at the discretion of said Mayor and Aldermen, prescribe suitable bonds with security, in each case to be approved by them, and prescribe the term of office of each of such officers.
Sec. 13. - [General powers and duties of Mayor.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor of said City of Ocilla shall be the chief executive of said City; he shall see that all laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and resolutions of said City are faithfully and fully executed and enforced, and that all the officers of said City shall faithfully perform the duties required of them; he shall have general supervision and jurisdiction over the affairs of said City; he shall preside at all meetings of the Mayor and Aldermen of said City; he shall not vote on any question or election in Council meetings where he is disqualified by interest or otherwise, nor on any question or election of officers by Council, except in cases of a tie vote of the Aldermen, when he may cast the deciding vote to break a tie aforesaid; he shall have the power to convene the City Council in extra sessions whenever he deems the same necessary; he shall have the power when presiding, and the Mayor Pro Tem. when he is presiding, in all meetings of Council to preserve order and decorum, and punish by fine not exceeding ten dollars, or imprisonment not exceeding forty-eight (48) hours, any person for contempt when so declared and ordered by the Aldermen while in session.
Sec. 14. - [Municipal Court.]
Be it further enacted, That there shall be a Municipal Court in said City of Ocilla for the trial of all offenders against the laws, ordinances, rules and resolutions of said City, to be held at the Council chamber, or other place designated by the presiding officer. The Mayor shall be the trial officer, preside at said Court; but in the absence from the City, or from sickness or disqualification of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem. shall preside at said Court; and in the absence or disqualification of both the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem., any alderman of said City may hold said Court and be clothed with the same authority and power as the Mayor. Said Court shall have the power to preserve order and to compel the attendance of witnesses, punish for contempt by imprisonment in the guard-house of the City not exceeding five days, or by fine not exceeding ten dollars for each offense, one or both, in his discretion. Said Mayor, or presiding officer, shall have full power and authority, upon conviction of any offender against the penal ordinances of the City, to sentence such offender to labor upon the streets or chain-gang of said City, or be safely confined in the guard-house of said City for a term not to exceed thirty days, or to pay a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars into Court; either one or all of said penalties may be imposed, in the discretion of the Mayor or presiding officer. All sentences and judgments shall contain an alternative. Any fine imposed may be collected by execution issued as other executions in favor of said City out of the estate of the defendant, both real and personal. That the rules of evidence, procedure and practice in said Mayor's Court shall conform to, as near as practicable in said Court, the rules of evidence, procedure and practice in the State Courts in misdemeanor cases, where rules to the contrary are not otherwise provided for herein or by City ordinances. The City of Ocilla shall be made plaintiff in all such cases.
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, the term Mayor's (or Police) Court has been changed to Municipal Court. The penalty for ordinance violations in the above section are superseded by Charter § 29.
Sec. 15. - [Appearance bonds.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor, or other presiding officer provided for in this Charter, when any person or persons are arranged before the Municipal Court of said City, charged with the violation of any of the ordinances, regulations or rules of said City, may, for good cause shown by either side, continue the hearing to such other time as the case may be adjourned to, and the accused and any witness, or witnesses, shall be required to give bond and security, to be approved by the presiding officer at the time, or to deposit with the Court a bonus to be prescribed by the presiding officer, to insure or compel his, her or their appearance and attendance upon said Court at the time appointed for trial, or in default of making such appearance bond, to be ordered to the City guard-house, and there securely imprisoned to wait trial or hearing. If such bond is given and the principal or principals therein shall fail to appear at the time fixed therein, such bond shall be forfeited by the Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem., and execution shall be issued on the judgment or order entered up in said case by the City Clerk, as other executions in favor of the City, and collected as other executions in favor of said City; provided, a rule nisi shall first issue and a copy served on each of the principals and securities in such bond or bonds at least five days before entering a final judgment or order in any case, or forfeiture of bonds. Said rules nisi shall be served by the marshal of said City, the Sheriff of Irwin County, or any constable of the same.
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, the term Police Court has been changed to Municipal Court.
Sec. 16. - [Authority to issue arrest warrants.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem. shall be to all intents and purposes ex officio justice of the peace, so far as to enable them to issue warrants for offenses committed within the Corporate Limits of said City, which warrants shall be issued as warrants issued by State officers, and may be served by an arresting officer of said City. Said Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem., may commit to the jail of Irwin County, or admit to bail, offenders for their appearance at the next term of the Court sitting in Irwin County that has jurisdiction of such offense, and it shall be the duty of the jailor of said County to receive all such persons so committed, and safely keep them until discharged by due process of law; either of said officers may issue warrants for parties violating any ordinance of said City.
Sec. 17. - [Prohibited interests in municipal contracts.]
Be it further enacted, That it shall not be lawful for the Mayor or Aldermen of said City to be interested, either directly or indirectly, in any contract with the City, the Mayor and Council, or any one of them, having for its object the public improvement of said City, or any part thereof, or the expenditure of its money; nor shall it be lawful for any member of the Council to vote on any question of appropriation for improvements of the City, or the payment of any account or claim against the City in which he or they are pecuniarily interested. Any violation of the first clause of this section by any of said officers, on conviction thereof, may be punished as for a misdemeanor under the laws of Georgia.
State Law reference— Officer or employee selling to government or political subdivision. O.C.G.A. § 16-10-6.
Sec. 18. - [Registration of voters required.]
Be it further enacted, That after the first election held under this Charter on the first Tuesday in January, 1903, for Mayor and Aldermen of said City, no person shall be allowed to vote in any election held in and for said City for any purpose or purposes herein provided for, who has not been duly registered as hereinafter provided; that it shall be the duty of the Clerk of the City Council to open and to keep open at his office each day, except Sundays, and at such hours as the Mayor and Aldermen may prescribe, a book for the registration of all voters, alphabetically arranged, in which book all qualified voters of said City may register at any time up to the closing of said book, ten days prior to each election. Said books shall be opened thirty days prior to the day of any such election and remain open for twenty days, after which time no one shall be allowed to register until after said elections. Before registering his name, as aforesaid, each person shall take the following oath, which oath may be written or printed at the beginning of said registration book, or at the top of the page on which said registration is had, to wit: "I —, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am twenty-one years old (or will be on the — day of— next); have resided in this State one year (or will have so resided in this State one year on the — day of — next), and that I have resided in said City of Ocilla six months (or will have so resided in said City six months on the — day of— next), and am now a bona fide citizen of the City of Ocilla, Georgia: I have paid all taxes due said City, State and County, which have been required of me, and which I have had an opportunity to pay, except for the present year; so help me God."
Editor's note— The above section is superseded by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-210 et seq.
Sec. 19. - [Jail.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall provide for a safe and suitable jail or guard-house for the keeping and detention of all City prisoners and convicts, and the City marshal shall be the jailer and custodian of the same.
Sec. 20. - Compensation of Mayor and Aldermen.
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen of said City shall each receive such salary, as such officers, as the preceding or outgoing Mayor and Aldermen shall prescribe before the day of election of their successors, and upon their failure to so fix said salary or compensation, the new Mayor and Aldermen shall only receive the same last prescribed as herein provided, and such compensation or salary shall not be increased during their term of office.
Sec. 21. - [City Clerk.]
Be it further enacted, That the offices of the City Clerk and Treasurer may be held by the same person. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to receive tax returns, collect the taxes, business or special taxes, to issue licenses and tax receipts and to collect all fines and assessments made by the Mayor or Mayor and Aldermen, by execution or otherwise. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to keep the different funds separate, and show the same in all reports required of him by the Mayor and Aldermen. It shall be the further duty of the Clerk to attend all meetings of the Board of Mayor and Aldermen and to keep a record of all minutes of their meetings, and he shall be the custodian of the seal of the City and books and records of the same.
Sec. 22. - [Animals.]
Be it further enacted, That the said Mayor and Aldermen shall have power and authority to regulate the keeping and prevent running at large, within said City of Ocilla, animals of all kinds and descriptions; also to impound said animal or animals when found upon the streets of said City, and to charge such fee for same as they may prescribe, and in addition thereto to charge for the keep of any animal or animals so impounded; and when the owner or owners of any animal or animals shall refuse or fail to pay the impounding fee and cost of keeping said impounded animal or animals, said animal or animals may be sold at public outcry, and the proceeds applied to the payment of said fee and cost of keeping said animal or animals, under rules and regulations prescribed by the Mayor and Aldermen.
Sec. 23. - [Fire department.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall have authority to create and organize a fire department or company, and shall have complete control of same, whether the same be a paid or volunteer company, and shall have power to enact all ordinances and regulations necessary to perfect and maintain said fire department or company.
Sec. 24. - [Fire limits.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall have the authority to prescribe a fire limit in said City and prescribe the kind of material to be used in erecting or repairing buildings in such limit, and to grant permits for all buildings or repairing of buildings within said limit, upon specifications submitted to the Council of such buildings or repairing, and from time to time enlarge or change said limit.
Sec. 25. - [Investigations into City affairs.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall be empowered and authorized, through a committee or by themselves, in their discretion, whenever they may deem necessary, to examine into the working of and business of any officer or conduct of any officer, and said committee, or the Mayor and Aldermen conducting said examination, shall have power to send for such persons and papers, and to compel the attendance of persons so summoned, swear witnesses, compel the production of such papers and all disclosures pertinent to such investigations.
Sec. 26. - [Removal of certain officers.]
The officers heretofore mentioned in section 13 shall be eligible to hold office under this Act regardless of whether said person is eligible to vote or not at the election of said City and any officer in this incorporation, who shall be guilty of malpractice or abuse of powers confided in him shall be subject to indictment in Superior Court, and on conviction shall be fined as for a misdemeanor and on conviction removed from office.
(1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 726), page 3806 , § 1)
Sec. 27. - [Franchises.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen of said City shall have the authority to grant right of ways over and through the streets and lanes of said City to railroad companies and street railroad companies, and to grant franchises, by proper ordinances, to electric light companies, water-works companies or sewerage companies, or to other like utilities, or to grant same to any person or corporation under such restrictions and for such times as they may see proper.
Sec. 28. - [License revocation.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen are authorized to revoke at any time any license that may be granted by their authority, for the violations of the ordinances, rules and regulations granting the same, or when it shall to them appear that it is to the best interest of the City to do so.
Sec. 29. - [Authorized penalty for ordinance violations.]
Be it further enacted that the Mayor and Aldermen shall have power and authority to prescribe by ordinance adequate penalties for all offenses against the ordinances of said City (and penalties and forfeitures for violations of all rules, orders and regulations for the government of officers or employees of the same), and to punish by fines not to exceed two hundred ($200.00) dollars, or labor on the streets of said City, or confinement in the guardhouse or jail, not to exceed sixty (60) days. The Mayor or the officer trying any offender of said ordinances, etc., may, on conviction of said offender, impose any one or all of said penalties, at his discretion.
(1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 965), page 2532 , § 1)
Sec. 30. - [Legislative power vested in Mayor an Aldermen; meetings generally.]
Be it further enacted, That the legislative department of said City of Ocilla shall be vested in the Mayor and Aldermen. They shall meet once in every month for the transaction of business, and not oftener, unless in the discretion of the Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem., it becomes necessary to hold extra sessions, and in that event the Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem., may convene the Council at once. The Mayor and Council may adjourn their meetings from time to time to meet at some future time. The Mayor and three Aldermen, or the Mayor Pro Tem. and three other Aldermen, shall constitute a quorum to transact business.
Sec. 31. - [Ordinance enactment procedure.]
Be it further enacted, That before any ordinance shall become a law it shall be read at two separate meetings of the Mayor and Aldermen before its passage; provided, that any ordinance may be passed at the first meeting and reading by unanimous consent of the Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem., if he is presiding in place of the Mayor, and all the Aldermen present; provided, a quorum is present at said meeting. All rules, resolutions and regulations, not ordinances, may be read and adopted at the same meeting of Council. All ordinances or rules made and enacted by the Mayor and Aldermen of said City to be observed by the public generally shall first be advertised or published once in some newspaper published in said City, or by posting the same at the door of the Council chamber of the City, before the same shall become operative.
Sec. 32. - [Lien for taxes and fines.]
Be it further enacted, That there shall be a lien on all property of any citizen or inhabitant of said City, both real and personal, or any other person or persons having property in this State, for any and all municipal taxes due said City, and for fines and penalties assessed upon the owners thereof from the date the same is due and assessed or imposed, which shall have a priority over all other liens due the State and counties therein, and of senior liens in favor of other municipal corporations of this State.
Sec. 33. - [Business license and registration.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen of said City shall have full power and authority to require any person, company, firm or corporation engaged in or carrying on, or who may engage in or carry on, prosecute or have any trade, business, calling, vocation, profession or avocation within the Corporate Limits of said City, to register their names, calling, vocation, profession or avocation, before beginning or entering upon the same, in a book to be kept for said purpose, and to require such person, firm, company or corporation to pay such fee for said registration, and for a license to engage in, carry on or prosecute such business, trades, etc., in said City as the Mayor and Aldermen may prescribe by ordinance. Said Mayor and Aldermen shall have the right and power to prescribe by ordinance a penalty for the violation of this section as provided in section - - of this Charter, which shall be in addition to their right to enforce collection of any tax execution for such special tax due the City for the privileges herein enumerated.
Sec. 34. - [Officers' fees.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall have the power to establish a fee bill for the officers of said City elected or appointed by them, and said fee bill may be collected and turned into the treasury of the City, or may be paid to the officers so earning said fees, as the Mayor and Aldermen shall, by ordinance, direct.
Sec. 35. - [General police powers.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen of said City shall have full power and authority to pass or enact all ordinances or by-laws respecting public buildings and grounds, streets, sidewalks and alleys, chain-gang, work-houses, public houses, vehicles of all kinds, bicycles, wells, springs, fire or other engines, mills, lakes or ponds, care of the poor, prevention of disorderly houses, houses of ill fame, for the prevention of disorderly or immoral conduct, and conduct liable to destroy the peace and tranquility of any citizen thereof, or a sojourner therein, and every other by-law, resolution and ordinance that may seem necessary and proper for the security of the peace, health, order and good government of said City, and make all needful rules for the government of their body and procedure of business.
Sec. 36. - [Street duty or commutation tax.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen may compel all persons residing within said City, who may be subject to road duty under State laws, to work on the streets, lanes and walks of said City for a time not exceeding fifteen days in each year, but may levy and collect in lieu of said work a commutation tax from such person not to exceed five dollars, to be paid at such time or times as the Mayor and Aldermen may direct, and the Mayor of said City shall have the same power to punish street defaulters as the road commissioners of this State now have, with the right of appeal to the general Council, and the Mayor and Aldermen shall, by ordinance, provide for the enforcement of this section.
Sec. 37. - [How writs and processes issued and executed.]
Be it further enacted, That all writs, processes, subpoenas, rules nisi, etc., for the forfeiture of bonds; all executions issued in behalf of said City for the collection of taxes, forfeitures, or for other purposes, shall be directed to the marshal of said City, and all and singular the Sheriffs and deputy Sheriffs of said State, signed by the Clerk of Council, bearing test in the name of the Mayor of said City, and such Sheriffs and their deputies are empowered and required to execute all such writs, processes, subp[oelig]nas, rules nisi, executions, etc., issuing as aforesaid, when the property or the parties to be proceeded against are without the Corporate Limits of said City of Ocilla, and the marshal of said City shall serve all writs, processes, subp[oelig]nas, rules nisi, executions, etc., issuing as aforesaid, when the property or the parties to be proceeded against are within the Corporate Limits of said City of Ocilla.
Sec. 38. - [Chain gang.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall have the right to establish a chain-gang for said City for the purpose of working the streets and lanes, or other highways of the City or any public work or improvement in the City, and in case any person escapes or attempts to escape from the party in charge of the City convicts or chain-gang, or in case any person aids, assists or advises any such attempt or escape of any such convict, may be arrested and punished by fine, etc., as prescribed in section 14 of this Charter.
Sec. 39. - [Tax sales.]
Be it further enacted, That the time, place and manner of sale of property, both real and personal, for taxes due the City of Ocilla or for any other indebtedness due said City for any purpose whatever by any person or persons, shall be the same as that provided by law for Sheriff sales for State and County taxes in this State; provided, such sale may be conducted and had before the door of the Council chamber, or the usual place of meeting of the Mayor and Aldermen of said City, and said sale may be conducted by the marshal of said City, but if the property seized is without the limits of Irwin County the Sheriff, or his lawful deputies of the County where the property is seized, may conduct such sale and sell as at Sheriffs sales. All officers making sales under the provisions and authority of this Charter shall have the same rights and authority to make deeds and deliver possessions of all property sold by them at such sales, and to pass titles to purchasers, as the State laws give to Sheriffs of this State, and the Sheriffs and their deputies shall receive the same fees as allowed them for making sales for State and County taxes.
Sec. 40. - [Ad valorem tax.]
Be it further enacted, That for the purpose of raising revenue for the support and maintenance of the government of said City, the Mayor and Aldermen shall have full power and authority and they shall provide by ordinance or resolution for the assessment, levying and collecting of an ad valorem tax on all property, both real and personal, within the Corporate Limits of said City, not exceeding one and one-half per cent., or one dollar and fifty cents on the one hundred dollars exclusive of taxation for public schools of said City and for bond indebtedness.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 11)
Sec. 41. - [City market.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall have power and authority to establish a City market in said City for the sale of, and at which shall be sold the fresh meats, beef, pork, fish, oysters and other like articles offered for sale by any one in said City. Said Mayor and Aldermen may establish a system of inspection of all said articles and merchandise sold at said market or other place in said City and prohibit the sale of the same at any other place should they see fit to do so. They may fix and provide for a fee for each inspection of said articles of merchandise, and provide regulations for keeping a record of the mark and brand of all stock or cattle butchered in said City, or sold for said purpose therein, and regulations for any butcher-pen kept or maintained therein.
Sec. 42. - [Licensing of specific businesses.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall have power and authority to pass ordinances, regulations granting of license, or refuse to grant license to shows and circuses, theatrical companies or other shows or exhibitions performing or exhibiting in said City; to tax and license billiard and pool tables or other tables kept for gaming or playing of games of any kind, tenpin-alleys or games played with any other number of pins, throwing of knives, rings or other like games; any person or persons doing a brokerage business, or pawnbrokers in said City; or insurance companies or insurance agents, sewing-machine agents, book agents, peddlers or itinerant traders, hotels, boardinghouses, livery or other stables, drays, hacks or any other business, trade or profession carried on in said City of Ocilla, and they shall pass all ordinances necessary to carry into effect this section.
Sec. 43. - [Bond issues generally.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Ocilla shall have power and authority to issue bonds of said City, not to exceed the sum of one hundred thousand dollars in the aggregate, of such denomination or denominations, payable at such time or times not more than thirty years from the date of the issue thereof, as said Mayor and Aldermen shall determine, with such rate of interest not exceeding six per cent; and have such covenants and conditions as the said Mayor and Aldermen shall deem best. Said bonds to be issued, sold and hypothecated for the purpose of, or purposes of, establishing, maintaining and operating a system of water-works, electric light system or other light system, constructing and furnishing school buildings, one or all, in and for said City; and that the amount or quantity of bonds to be issued for said purposes shall be issued, sold or hypothecated, and the proceeds derived therefrom shall be divided and appropriated for the several purposes herein stated in such a manner as said Mayor and Aldermen may deem best, but any such bonds shall state whether they are issued for one or more of said purposes. Said bonds to be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk under the Corporate Seal of said City, and shall be negotiated in such manner as said Mayor and Aldermen shall determine to be for the best interest of said City; provided, however, that said bonds shall not be issued until the same shall have been submitted to a vote of the qualified voters of said City, and approved by a two-thirds vote of the qualified voters of said City under the Constitution and laws of this State and the provisions of this Charter not in conflict with said Constitution and laws.
(1905 Ga. Laws (Act No. 564), page 1023 , § 3; 1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 10)
Sec. 44. - [Tax appraisers.]
Be it further enacted, That said Mayor and Aldermen shall each year elect three freeholders, residing in said City, as tax appraisers, who shall hold office one year unless removed by the Mayor and Aldermen. All vacancies in the Board of Tax Appraisers shall be filled by said Mayor and Aldermen, who shall also fix the compensation of said appraisers, which shall not exceed twenty-five dollars each.
Sec. 45. - [Property tax returns.]
Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of every citizen of said City, or any other person owning property therein, to make annual returns under oath, to said Board of Tax Appraisers, or to the City Clerk, as the Mayor and Aldermen may direct, within the time prescribed by said Mayor and Aldermen, a full and complete schedule of all their taxable property held in their own right or in behalf of other persons as agents or representatives, for the purpose of taxation by said municipality. In case any person shall refuse or fail to make such returns, or shall make a return deemed by the Board of Tax Appraisers incorrect, said Board of Tax Appraisers shall assess the property of such person and fix the valuation of such property not returned, or incorrectly returned, as they may deem just and correct. Said Board of Tax Appraisers shall assess and fix the true value of all property subject to taxation by said municipality for the purposes herein contemplated, whether such property is returned for taxation to said Board or to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall be Clerk of the Board of Tax Appraisers, and shall perform such duties as they may require of him, and a majority of said Board shall constitute a quorum.
Editor's note— The above section is superseded by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 46. - [Waterworks and electric utilities authorized.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Ocilla shall have power and authority to establish, operate and maintain a system of water-works, electric lights or other lights for said City, and they shall have power and authority to acquire any property rights within or without the City limits necessary to operate electric lights and necessary to afford a complete and sufficient supply of water for said City, and for conveying and distributing it in said City, and when it becomes necessary to take or use private property or private rights for the purposes herein stated and contemplated, said Mayor and Aldermen may, if they can not agree upon the price to be paid to the owner or owners for such privileges, then the said compensation or damages shall be assessed as provided in section 52 of this Charter.
Sec. 47. - [Waterworks regulations authorized.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall have power to make rules and regulations respecting the introduction of water in or upon all premises, and from time to time to regulate the use thereof in such manner as shall seem to them proper, and they and their employees or inspectors in their service are hereby authorized to enter at all reasonable hours any dwelling or other place where said water is taken and used, and where unnecessary waste thereof is found, to inspect, examine and inquire as to the cost thereof. They shall have power also to examine all service pipes, stop-cocks and other apparatus in connection with said water system, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the same are of the character and dimensions and fixed in the manner directed in the permit used therefor, and if any person or persons refuse to permit such examination, or oppose or obstruct such officer or employee in the performance of his duty, he, she or they so offending shall be liable to such damages and penalties as said Mayor and Aldermen may prescribe.
Sec. 48. - [Regulation of water and electric systems and charges therefor.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall have power to regulate the distribution and use of water in all places and for all purposes where the same may be required, and from time to time shall fix the price for the use of both water and lights, and the time of payment, and require the same to be paid in advance for the use and rent of both water and lights furnished by them in or upon any building, place or premises, and in case prompt payments shall not be made, they may shut off either or both from such places, building or premises, and shall not be compelled to again supply such place, building or premises with water until all such arrears, with interest, shall be paid; and may erect such number of public hydrants and in such places as they shall see fit, and direct in what manner and for what purpose they shall be used, and all of which they may change at their discretion.
Sec. 49. - [Interference with water system.]
Be it further enacted, That if any person or persons shall maliciously or wilfully divert the water or any portion thereof from said water-works, or shall corrupt or render the same impure, or shall destroy or injure any canal, aqueduct, public conduit, machinery or other property used or required for procuring or distributing said water, such person or persons, their aiders and abettors, shall forfeit to the Mayor and Aldermen, to be recovered in an action for damages treble the amount of damages which shall appear on the trial to have been sustained, and all such acts are hereby declared to be misdemeanors, and the parties found guilty thereof may be further punished as for a misdemeanor under the laws of Georgia.
Sec. 50. - Bond issue elections.
Be it further enacted, That whenever it is deemed expedient or desirable by the Mayor and Aldermen of said City. they shall order an election to be held in said City for the purpose of determining whether any or all of said bonds as such order may require shall be issued, and shall give notice thereof for the space of thirty days next preceding the day of election, in the newspaper in which the Sheriffs legal advertisements appear at that time notifying the qualified voters that on the day named an election will be held to determine the question whether bonds shall be issued by said City, which notice shall specify the amount of bonds to be issued by said City, for what purpose, and what rate of interest they shall bear, when the interest is to be paid, how much of principal and interest shall be paid annually, and when said bonds shall be fully paid off. Said election shall be held on the day published in said notice at the place for holding elections for Mayor and Aldermen, and shall be held by the same persons and in the same manner and under the same rules and regulations that elections for Mayor and Aldermen for said City are held; and the same qualifications of voters of said election shall be required as at the time of said election for Mayor and Aldermen; that the voting shall be by ballot and the ballots cast at said election shall contain the words "For Bonds," or "Against Bonds," and unless "For Bonds" shall receive two thirds majority of all the votes cast at said election, said bonds shall not be issued, but if "For Bonds" shall receive said two-thirds vote, said bonds may be issued.
Sec. 51. - [Property tax returns.]
Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of said appraisers to scrutinize carefully each and every return made by any taxpayer to themselves or to the Clerk of said City, and assess the true market value of all such property so returned, and complete said work not later than thirty days from the time of beginning and turn the tax digest, or the returns made to them by the taxpayers, over to the City Clerk. Whenever the appraisers have raised the valuation at which the taxpayer has returned his or her property, said appraisers shall give such person written notice of their assessment, which notice may be served or given by an officer of said City or by mail five days before the expiration of the time for assessing property, or before the time expires for making said returns, and it shall be the taxpayers' privilege, if dissatisfied with the assessment so made, to appear before said Board of Tax Appraisers, under rules and regulations to be prescribed by said Appraisers, and show cause, if any he can, why said assessment should not stand, and in all cases the decision of such appraisers shall be final.
Editor's note— The above section is superseded by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 52. - [General Powers as to streets and alleys.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen of said City of Ocilla shall have full power and authority to open and lay out new streets and alleys, to widen, straighten, close or otherwise change any of the streets and alleys of said City, and to regulate the width of sidewalks and prescribe rules for erecting awnings over streets and sidewalks, and the planting out, protection and growing of shade trees on all of said streets, alleys and sidewalks. Whenever, in the exercise of said powers, it shall be necessary to take private property, said Mayor and Aldermen may condemn the same as herein provided and make proper compensation to the owner or owners thereof, as provided in title 2, chapter 9, articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Code of 1895 of Georgia [see now O.C.G.A. title 22].
Sec. 53. - [Liability for unauthorized arrests or false imprisonment.]
Be it further enacted, That in no case shall the corporation herein created be liable in damage to any person or persons for any unlawful or unauthorized arrests, or false imprisonment made or effected by the marshal or any of the policemen of said City.
Sec. 54. - [Convict labor.]
Be it further enacted, That it shall be unlawful for any person or persons or corporation to keep or work any State or County convicts within the limits of said City on any private works, and the Mayor and Aldermen are authorized to prescribe penalties for the violation of this section and enforce the same against any such person or persons, or the manager or superintendent of any corporation or other such person having in charge such convicts for each day such convicts are kept or worked therein.
Sec. 55. - [Unauthorized voting.]
Be it further enacted, That any person voting at any City election, who is not qualified to vote according to the provisions of this Charter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof in any Court of Irwin County having jurisdiction of the same, he shall be punished as prescribed in section 1039 of the Code of this State of 1895 [see now O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3].
Sec. 56. - [Appeals from decisions Municipal Court.]
Be it further enacted, That any person convicted in the Municipal Court may appeal to the City Council, who shall hear the case anew, and shall acquit or make such change in the original sentence or fine imposed on the appellant as they may see proper, with the right of certiorari before or after appeal.
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, the term Mayor's Court has been changed to Municipal Court.
Sec. 57. - [Elections; Board of Registrars.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall have the authority to appoint three citizens of said City, who are qualified voters thereof, as a Board of Registrars, whose duty it shall be to examine the registration books and to strike from the list of persons registered therein all who are disqualified to vote in the approaching election to be held for any purpose whatever in said City, and to have all such persons served with notice of the striking of their names from said registration book at least three days before the holding of said election, and if there is a protest made to such striking by any person the same shall be made to said Board, and after hearing all the evidence and the grounds of protest so made, said Board may reinstate such name or names so stricken or not as the facts may justify. The final decision of said Board as to the qualification of any such voter registering shall be conclusive as to his or their qualifications and right to vote in said election. The notice herein provided for may be served by either member of said Board or by the marshal of said City, and after said registration books shall have been purged as herein provided for the Clerk of said City shall make, or cause to be made and delivered to the manager of each election, an accurate alphabetical list of all the qualified registered voters for that election. The managers of all elections herein provided for shall have the right to require any voter to make the oath contained in the registration book before allowing him to vote; provided, a challenge is made to such voter voting in said election by any citizen of said City. The Clerk of said City shall give notice through a newspaper published therein, if one is so published, and also post such notice at the door of the Council chamber at or before the time of opening the registration books, giving notice of the time of opening and closing of the same.
Editor's note— The above section appears superseded by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-210 et seq.
Sec. 58. - [Electrical regulations and charges for electricity.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen of said City shall have full power and authority to make rules and regulations and pass all ordinances they may deem necessary, regulating and furnishing of electric lights in stores, residences and other places by the electric light plant of said City, and for the protection of the lamps and other fixtures and appurtenances of any electric light plant or system. They shall have the right and power to regulate the charges for the use of said lights as well as for the use of water from the water-works of the City.
Sec. 59. - [Additional ad valorem tax to pay off bonds.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen shall have full power and authority to levy and collect annually an ad valorem tax in addition to that already provided for, not exceeding four and one-half mills or forty-five cents on the hundred dollars, for the purposes of raising a revenue for the payment of the principal on all bonds issued by said City and to create a fund for the payment of all interest on the same.
(1920 Ga. Laws (Act No. 476), page 1370 , § 12)
Sec. 60. - [Sale of bonds.]
Be it further enacted, That all bonds issued by said City may be used by the Mayor and Aldermen thereof for the purpose of paying for said school buildings, water-works and light plant or system under contracts to be made by said Mayor and Aldermen; but if said Mayor and Aldermen shall at any time, or from time to time, prefer to sell said bonds, or any of them, then the same shall be sold only after advertising the same for thirty days in the official organ of Irwin County, and in such other newspaper or papers as to them may seem best. Said advertisement shall provide for sealed bids for such bonds as offered for sale, and at the expiration of the time so advertised, and on the day named and fixed, said bonds shall be sold to the highest and best bidder, with the right on the part of the Mayor and Aldermen to reject any or all bids; but under no circumstances shall any of said bonds be sold and delivered to any person or corporation except for cash.
Sec. 61. - [Fi. fa. claims.]
Be it further enacted, That when any fl. fa. shall issue as provided in the preceding provisions of this Charter, and shall be levied, and the property levied on shall be claimed by a third person, such claimant shall interpose his claim thereto as now provided by law for claims under tax fl. fa. for the State and County tax; such claim to be returned to and heard in the Irwin County Superior Court.
Sec. 62. - [Smallpox and yellow fever.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Ocilla shall have power and authority to establish such quarantine regulations against persons who have been exposed to smallpox or yellow fever as it may deem proper, and establish a smallpox hospital or pest-house; and in case of smallpox or yellow fever within said City, to cause to be removed to said hospital or pest-house all persons afflicted with such diseases, except such persons as shall, at their own expense, provide suitable and sufficient guards to successfully quarantine the premises where said case or cases of smallpox or yellow fever may be located.
Sec. 63. - [Municipal judge.]
Be it further enacted, That the Mayor and Aldermen of said City may at any time they see proper elect a recorder who shall act in the place of the Mayor in presiding at the Municipal Courts, who shall have all of the power and authority of the Mayor so far as trying offenders against the penal ordinances of said City and enforcing the penalties prescribed for the violation of the same. Said recorder to hold his office for such time as the Mayor and Aldermen may designate, not exceeding one year at a time, and to receive such compensation or fee as the Mayor and Aldermen may prescribe, and shall take and subscribe to such oath before entering upon the duties of his office as recorder as may be prescribed by the Mayor and Aldermen. In the absence or disqualification of such recorder, the Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem., or any other Aldermen of said City, may preside as the trial officer in said Mayor's Court, as provided for elsewhere in this Charter.
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, the term Police Court has been changed to Municipal Court.
Sec. 64. - [Churches and cemeteries.]
Be it further enacted, That said Mayor and Aldermen shall have power and authority to protect places of divine worship and cemeteries of said City; to provide a cemetery or cemeteries for the burial of the dead, either within or without the City; to regulate interments therein, and to expend annually a sufficient sum for the proper keeping of said cemetery or cemeteries; but white and colored people shall be buried in different cemeteries and not the same.
Editor's note— Provisons in the above section requiring racially segregated cemeteries is unconstitutional.
Sec. 65. - [Repealer.]
Be it further enacted, That all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be, and the same are, hereby repealed.
[Secs. 66—100. - Reserved.]
