Chapter 70 - WATER AND SEWAGE SERVICES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 70-1—70-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER SERVICE

Secs. 70-19—70-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT

Sec. 70-40. - Short title.
This article shall be known, referred to, and may be cited as the "On-Site Sewage Management Law of Bleckley County."
(Ord. of 10-21-1999(2), § 1)
State Law reference— Standards for on-site sewage management systems, O.C.G.A. § 31-2-7; regulation of on-site sewage management systems, O.C.G.A. §§ 31-3-5, 31-3-5.1.
Sec. 70-41. - Purpose and intent.
It is the intent and policy of the sole commissioner to:
(1)
Promote the health, safety, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the county and its residents;
(2)
Protect the natural resources, the environment, and the public health of the county;
(3)
Facilitate the adequate provision of on-site sewage management for all development in the local jurisdiction;
(4)
Protect significant groundwater recharge areas from pollution by spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections, and other development;
(5)
Promote the wise use of wetlands and protect them from alterations that will significantly affect or reduce their primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, groundwater recharge, aesthetic natural areas, and wildlife habitat areas;
(6)
Establish measures to preserve an adequate supply of safe drinking water and a quality for state waters which is necessary to protect the health and welfare of the public as well as to provide for future growth;
(7)
Protect the environment, including the soils, air quality, and water resources, from pollution and inappropriate development; to assist in the orderly, efficient, and integrated development of the county; and
(8)
Require permits for new development or location within the county.
(Ord. of 10-21-1999(2), § 2)
Sec. 70-42. - Responsibility for administration.
The sole commissioner, because of the need for coordination, charges the county health department with the responsibility for administering this article and ensuring compliance with its provisions.
(Ord. of 10-21-1999(2), § 5)
Sec. 70-43. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Hazardous waste means any solid waste that has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the federal act codified as 40 CFR 261, and as amended.
Lot means the contiguous land in the same ownership which is not divided by any public highway or alley, including any part thereof subject to any easement for any purpose other than a public highway or alley, but excluding any part thereof severed from another lot where the severance creates any nonconformity of size or use.
Perennial river or stream means a river/stream or section of a river or stream that normally flows continuously throughout the whole year.
Protected river corridor means all land, inclusive of islands, in areas of a protected river within a distance of 100 feet horizontally on both sides of the river measured from the uppermost part of the riverbank; the area between the top of the bank and the edge of the water is included in the protected area.
Riverbank or streambank means the rising ground, bordering a river or a stream, which serves to confine the water to the natural channel during the normal course of flow.
Section 404 refers to section 404 (33 USC 1344) of the U.S. Clean Water Act, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
Septic tank means a subsurface impervious tank designated to temporarily retain sewage or similar waterborne wastes, together with:
(1)
A sewer line constructed with solid pipe, with the joints sealed, connecting such impervious tank with a plumbing stubout; and
(2)
A subsurface system of trenches, piping, and other materials constructed to drain the clarified discharge from the tank and distribute it underground to be absorbed or filtered.
Subdivision means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale, legacy, or building development, whether immediate or future. This shall include all divisions or resubdivisions of land involving a new road or change in existing roads. Excluded from this definition is the combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased.
Utility means public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and railroads or other utilities identified by a local government.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. The ecological parameters for designating wetlands include hydric soils, hydrological vegetation, and hydrological conditions that involve a temporary or permanent source of water to cause soil saturation.
(Ord. of 10-21-1999(2), § 3)
Sec. 70-44. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
Violators. Violation of these provisions, prohibitions, and installation restrictions by any private individual, landowner, builder, remodeler, contractor, licensed electrician, licensed plumber, septic tank dealer or installer, mobile or manufactured home dealer or mover, or developer, or installation and delivery of any utility services by a public or private utility to any property which holds a septic tank system installed against these prohibitions and restrictions, shall be a violation of this article.
(b)
Penalty. Any person violating, neglecting, or refusing to comply with any provision of this article shall be subject to penalties as set forth in section 1-7.
(Res. of 6-20-1986(2), § 7; Ord. of 10-21-1999(2), § 10)
Sec. 70-45. - Permit.
(a)
Septic tanks permitted. No septic tank shall be installed where a public sewer is accessible to the premises involved, nor in any place where the health inspector deems the use of a septic tank to be a menace to human health or a nuisance to the general welfare of the county.
(b)
On-site sewage management permit required. Prior to the construction of any house or building, or alteration or addition thereto, and prior to the location or relocation of any mobile home in the county from which sewage must be disposed of by means of a septic tank or alternative system, an on-site sewage management permit must be obtained from the county health department, in addition to any other required building or relocation permits.
(c)
Subdivisions. Where private systems for the disposal of sewage and other liquid wastes are proposed in any planned subdivision, before any person may develop the subdivision and before the sale of any lots therein or the erection of any buildings thereon, the owner or his designee shall file such plats, plans, and specifications as the health inspector may deem necessary to evaluate the permissibility of the planned subdivision sewage systems. Upon approval, the health inspector shall issue a permit as set forth in this article.
(d)
Permit coordination. The permit shall not be issued, and no construction, erection, move, or other activity regulated by this article may proceed, until the county health department issues an on-site sewage management construction permit or a site approval letter, whichever is appropriate, so that all lots proposed to be used or subdivided would satisfy the requirements of this article, including the rules of the state department of human resources for on-site sewage management systems.
(e)
Form and contents of application. The application for the permit shall be made on the form prescribed by the health department and shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant;
(2)
The address of the location of the building or mobile home for which the permit is sought;
(3)
For residential structures, the number of bedrooms contained or to be contained therein; and
(4)
For commercial or industrial structures, the amount of the anticipated water usage.
(f)
Duties of health department. It is the duty of the county health department to evaluate the proposed structure and to issue the on-site sewage management permit for those sites that comply with the rules and regulations promulgated by the county health department for on-site sewage management systems.
(g)
Duties of applicant. It shall be the duty of the property owner or building contractor, or the applicant, if different from the property owner or building contractor, to request evaluation by the health department, prior to beginning construction or prior to locating or relocating a mobile home, for purposes of determining if the septic tank system complies with the rules and regulations promulgated by the county health department for on-site sewage management systems.
(h)
Minimum lot size. All lots intended for residential or other use within the county shall be of such size as is specified by the county health department according to the Rules of Georgia Department of Human Resources Public Health for On-Site Sewage Management Systems Manual for On-Site Sewage Management and/or this article, whichever is more stringent; provided, however, that if the lot includes or will include a septic tank, it shall be:
(1)
Not less than 1.5 acres if a water well is used on the same lot; or
(2)
Not less than 0.75 acre if there will be no water well and the lot will use the public water supply system.
(i)
Requirements are minimum. The regulations and requirements set by this article shall be the minimum requirements.
(j)
Preexisting uses. The provisions of this article regarding minimum lot size shall not apply to lots that are the subject of a plat recorded prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived or a deed conveying ownership to the current owner recorded prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(k)
Compliance with state and federal regulations. All developments, structures, and uses within the county shall also meet the requirements of all other local, federal and state regulations in effect, including but not limited to department of transportation regulations, state fire marshal regulations, the state's uniform construction codes, state department of natural resources, and state environmental protection division environmental rules and regulations. Issuance of a permit under this article does not constitute certification of compliance with such codes or regulations, and does not abrogate responsibility of the owner to so comply.
(l)
Map interpretation. If there is any uncertainty as to whether a lot, portion of lot, or a proposed construction or location impacts an environmental resource regulated by this article because of interpretation of the applicable map, the decision of the sole commissioner or the county health department shall take precedence and be considered correct and final, but may be appealed as set forth in this article.
(m)
Appeal. Any person who feels aggrieved by a decision of the sole commissioner or the county health department, as appropriate, regarding map interpretation may at his own expense request reconsideration. Such reconsideration shall include submission of scientific evidence for reversal of the alleged error in map interpretation, and such evidence must be documented by a state registered engineer, geologist, or soils scientist. To obtain a reversal of the decision of map interpretation, the evidence must be acceptable to the state department of natural resources' environmental protection division, and the sole commissioner, and/or the county health department. Any costs for submission of evidence to the state department of natural resources' environmental protection division shall be borne by the person requesting reconsideration.
(n)
Coordination with zoning and other regulation. The provisions of this article shall be coordinated with any zoning or other regulations adopted by the sole commissioner, and if there is any conflict with those zoning or other regulations, the stricter provisions shall apply. If zoning is or has been adopted, the provisions of this article shall be considered an overlay, or additional requirements to the requirements of underlying zoning regulations and district.
(o)
Fees. Any fees for applications, inspections, and the issuance of permits or certificates required or issued under the provisions of this article shall be paid by the person seeking such permit at the time of application in advance of the issuance of such permits or certificates. The amount of such fees, if any, shall be those established by the sole commissioner from time to time.
(Res. of 6-20-1986(2), §§ 1, 2; Ord. of 10-21-1999(2), §§ 4.1—4.10)
Sec. 70-46. - Variances.
When due to a particular hardship or extraordinary circumstance of the property involved which is not easily corrected, it is impractical for an owner or developer to comply with all of the requirements of this article, the sole commissioner shall be authorized to vary such requirements (under its jurisdiction) only to such extent as to provide fairness to the owner or developer and as to not violate the intent and purposes of this article. Such variances shall only be granted in an official public meeting, and the reasons for granting them shall be entered into the minutes of the public meeting.
(Ord. of 10-21-1999(2), § 9)
Sec. 70-47. - Jurisdiction.
The sole commissioner or the county board of health, as appropriate, may bring complaints of violation of any provision of this article before the magistrate court of the county.
(Ord. of 10-21-1999(2), § 11)
