APPENDIX E - BROADBAND READY COMMUNITY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the county's broadband ready community ordinance as set forth in Ord. of 11-6-2020(1) , adopted by the board of commissioners on January 16, 2018. Amendments to the ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This ordinance shall be titled the "Putnam County Broadband Ready Community Ordinance."
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this ordinance, the following terms, phrases, words and derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely dicta.
Applicant means a person applying for a permit for a broadband network project.
Broadband network project means any deployment of broadband services.
Permit means any local permit, license, certificate approval, registration, or similar form of approval required by policy, administrative rule, regulation, ordinance, or resolution with respect to a broadband network project.
Political subdivision means a county, municipal corporation, consolidated government, or local authority.
Sec. 3. - Single point of contact.
Putnam County, Georgia shall appoint a single point of contact for all matters related to a broadband network project:
(a)
The single point of contact shall be:
County Manager
Paul Van Haute
Putnam County
706.485.5826
pvanhaute@putnamcountyga.us
https://www.putnamcountyga.us/administration
(b)
The single point of contact shall be available for matters related to a broadband network project or a related liaison who may direct such inquiry in real time, with general scope and responsibilities to include permitting and right-of-way; and
(c)
The single point of contact information must be current to maintain designation, by updating with such change in contact information on web pages and associated sources, within 15 calendar days of change.
Sec. 4. - Application completeness review.
Putnam County shall determine whether an application is incomplete and notify the applicant, by email, of the determination by Putnam County within ten business days of receiving an application.
Sec. 5. - Notification of incomplete application.
If Putnam County determines that an application is not complete, the notification by email to the applicant shall specify all required components of the submitted application that were considered "incomplete."
(a)
Putnam County's response shall include a checklist of sequenced items that resulted in the application being deemed "incomplete" and the review timeline shall be as follows:
(1)
The applicant has up to 40 business days from the date of notification of incompleteness to respond back with corrections; and
(2)
If the applicant does not respond back within 40 business days, the application is deemed canceled.
(b)
Putnam County shall require a new submission and reset the process and application fees, should an application be deemed incomplete a second time.
Sec. 6. - Approval or denial notification.
(a)
If an application is deemed complete, Putnam County shall approve or deny an application within 15 business days unless a joint meeting between the applicant and Putnam County is deemed as necessary. If a joint meeting is deemed necessary, the joint meeting must occur within 15 business days of notification.
(b)
Following a joint meeting between the applicant and Putnam County, Putnam County shall deny or approve the application within ten business days.
(c)
Upon final approval, any required permits shall be deemed issued.
Sec. 7. - Related fees.
(a)
Any fee imposed by Putnam County to review an application, issue a permit, or perform any other activity related to a broadband network project shall be reasonable, cost based, and nondiscriminatory to all applicants.
(b)
Any application fee that exceeds $100.00 shall be considered unreasonable unless Putnam County can provide documentation justifying such fee based on a specific cost.
Sec. 8. - Other information.
(a)
Double fee. No city or county shall require an application or permit(s) when already approved by an authorized state or federal jurisdiction. Provider shall notify and provide a copy of the approved permit to the single-point-of-contact at the city or county prior to access of right-of-way within the city or county jurisdiction.
(b)
Application validity timeline. Any approved application shall be valid for six months from the date of approval. Should a provider not commence the service request qualified in the approved application within six months, the application shall expire, and it shall require a new permit approval and any associated fees, as applicable.
(c)
Single service drop. A city or county shall not require a permit for a broadband service provider to perform an installation of broadband service at an individual customer's service address as long as the facility being utilized only transverses a deminimis portion of the public right-of-way to reach the customer's property. The provider must still comply with the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 25 ch. 9.
Sec. 9. - Acknowledgements.
Putnam County acknowledges:
(a)
A Georgia Certified Broadband Ready Community has an affirmative duty to notify the Georgia Department of Community Affairs of any changes to the information submitted as part of its application; and
(b)
Failure to notify Georgia Department of Community Affairs of changes may result in revocation of Putnam County's Broadband Ready Certification, should the certification be granted.
