I-M INDUSTRIAL-MANUFACTURING DISTRICT

Sec. 66-111. - Purpose.
This district is intended to provide areas for industries that manufacture, fabricate, change, or alter materials to form a product or subassemblies. Uses that in the normal course of business must store materials outdoors, have vehicles, equipment, and liquids parked or stored in containers or that the nature of the industry necessitates outdoor assemblage of all or part of the goods produced should be in this district.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4))
Sec. 66-112. - Uses allowed.
The uses allowed in the I-M zoning district as a matter of right are subject to section 66-34, general requirements, of this article, to performance standards of article III, and to the requirements and development standards of this district. Uses not listed herein are not permitted in this district, except as provided in section 66-36, undefined uses, of this article. Consult article III, performance standards, or the other zoning districts if the use you seek is not listed in this district.
(a)
Allowed uses.
Adult entertainment.
Agricultural processing.
Assembly halls.
Automobile maintenance.
Automobile repair.
Automobile sales and rentals.
Automobile service stations.
Boat sales.
Boat yard.
Brewery/distillery/winery.
Fairgrounds and amusement parks.
Fuel oil/gas distributor clinic.
Commercial truck or equipment rental sales.
Contractor services, general.
Contractor services, limited.
Convenience store.
Crematorium.
Extractive industry funeral service.
Heavy equipment sales, rental, repair, and storage.
Helipad.
Junkyards.
Landing strip, private.
Manufacturing, heavy.
Manufacturing, general.
Manufacturing, limited.
Meat processing and packaging facilities.
Racetracks.
Recreation outdoor.
Restaurants.
Retail sales or service (outdoor).
Sawmill, portable/temporary or permanent.
Scrap and salvage service.
Mini warehouses.
Sewage treatment plant (subject to article III, performance standards).
Slaughterhouse.
Solar energy system. See chapter 53.
Truck or freight terminal.
Transmission/communication towers.
Towing facility.
Truck or freight terminal.
Truck stop.
Vehicle rentals.
Vehicle and other storage.
Wholesale and warehousing, limited.
Wholesale and warehousing, general.
Water treatment plant, private.
Workshop, limited.
Zoos.
(b)
Accessory uses and structures: Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to any permitted use.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4); Amend. of 4-17-2012(2); Ord. of 12-4-2020(1) ; Ord. of 12-3-2021(1) )
Sec. 66-113. - Development standards.
(a)
Minimum lot size: 43,560 square feet (one acre).
(b)
Minimum lot width at the building setback line: 100 feet.
(c)
Minimum setback requirements are as follows:
(1)
Front setback: 100 feet.
(2)
Side setback: 20 feet.
(3)
Rear setback: 50 feet.
(4)
Setback from Lake Sinclair, Lake Oconee, creek, or river: 100 feet.
(5)
Setbacks of the I-M when adjacent to an R, RM, or MHP zoning district or to a property on which a residential use is located shall be set back 200 feet. The setbacks may be reduced by 50 percent if, in the opinion of the director, a buffer or berm would provide equal or better protection.
(d)
Maximum height of structures: 45 feet from the highest point of the grade.
(e)
Basic parking requirement: One space per each 200 square feet of space designated for retail sales. See chapter 28, development regulations, for other commercial or recreational uses.
(f)
Maximum lot coverage by buildings: 35 percent.
(h)
Maximum floor area is computed at 15,000 square feet per acre, excluding exterior storage spaces and structures.
(i)
Reserved.
(j)
This zoning district is prohibited adjacent to, and within 500 feet of Lake Sinclair or Oconee.
(k)
Solar energy farm applicants shall demonstrate that the use will not have an adverse effect on neighboring properties by providing a detailed site plan to include aerials of the site, graphic renderings and site lines. Appropriate vegetated buffers and/or plantings may also be required to help limit the visual impact of the site and possible glare issues. The site shall be restored to as natural condition as possible within six months of decommissioning. See chapter 53 for additional information.
(l)
Minimum buffer abutting all property lines: 50 feet.
(Res. of 7-17-2007(4); Amend. of 4-17-2012(2); Amend. of 9-17-2013(2) ; Ord. of 12-4-2020(1) )
