ARTICLE I. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 1. - Statement of Purpose.
For purposes of this ordinance, the area of Dooly County outside the incorporated communities of Byromville, Dooling, Lilly, Pinehurst, Unadilla and Vienna is divided into the land use districts or zones as set forth herein below, the boundaries of which are shown on the official zoning map maintained by the Zoning Administrator.
Sec. 2. - Land Use Zones or Districts.
EXPAND
NAME SYMBOL
1. Agriculture AG
2. Community Commercial C-1
3. General Commercial C-2
4. Flood Hazard FH
5. Industrial I
6. Residential, Single Family R-1
7. Residential, Multi-Family R-2
8. Reserved R-3
9. Residential, Mobile Home Park R-4
10. Residential, Mobile Home Subdivision R-5
11. Wildlife Preservation WLD
  Sec. 2. - Interpretation of District Boundaries.
1.
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following street lines, land lot lines, militia district lines, private lot lines or corporate limit lines, such lines existing at the time of passage of the zoning resolution shall be construed to be such boundaries.
2.
Where a district boundary divides a parcel, location of the district boundary shall be determined by use of the map scale appearing on the official zoning map, unless clearly indicated otherwise by dimensions on the zoning map.
3.
Where a public right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the vacated property shall be considered as being within the same zoning district as the adjoining property.
4.
Where district boundaries are shown so as to indicate they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of roads or highways, such boundaries shall be construed as being measured from or being parallel to the center lines of such roads or highways. If no distance is provided, dimensions shall be determined by the use of the map scale appearing on the official zoning map.
5.
Where a zoning district boundary divides a lot, tract or parcel of land at the time such district boundary is established, the use classification of the less-restrictive district may be extended to the property line of said lot, tract or parcel, but shall not be extended a distance of more than 100 feet without the permission of the Planning Commission.
Sec. 3. - Restrictions Upon Land, Building, and Structures.
Except as hereinafter provided:
1.
Use - No building or land shall be used or occupied, and no structure, or part thereof, shall be moved or altered, except in conformity with this resolution, as amended.
2.
Percentage of lot occupancy - No structure shall be erected, moved or altered, nor shall any open space surrounding any structure be encroached upon or reduced in any manner, except in conformity with requirements established herein.
3.
Density of dwelling units - No building or structure shall be erected or altered, nor shall any property be occupied or used so as to exceed the density of dwelling units allowed under the requirements of this resolution.
4.
Yard use limitation - No yard or other space required herein for any building or structure shall be considered for use in satisfying the yard or other space requirement for any other building or structure.
5.
Screening - A solid, visual buffer, e.g., a wall or evergreen, extending six feet above ground may be required by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission to lessen adverse and negative impacts of noise and/or bright lights on surrounding properties, or to secure privacy when a commercial or industrial establishment is located in proximity to existing residences. Such a buffer must extend eight feet high along the perimeter of a salvage yard. The Planning Commission may impose this requirement, if it is determined conditions warrant, after the commercial or industrial establishment begin operations.
