ARTICLE V. - SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL R-1

Sec. 1. - Statement of Purpose.
The Single-Family Residential zone is established to encourage development of single-family detached housing and to discourage developments which would generate traffic levels and patterns on neighborhood roads in conflict with single-family residential development.
All structures used as dwellings constructed in an R-1 District shall have a minimum frontage, of not less than 30 feet and a minimum depth of not less than 30 feet.
Sec. 2. - Permitted Uses.
1.
Single-family residence constructed on-site.
2.
Accessory buildings or uses (swimming pool, greenhouse, etc.) incidental to permitted use(s) when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation.
Sec. 3. - Conditional Uses.
1.
Bed and Breakfast Inn.
2.
Churches, exclusive of cemeteries.
3.
Clubs and fraternal organizations (non-profit) provided:
A.
Buildings are constructed at least 50 feet from all property lines, and
B.
A buffer strip at least ten feet wide is planted along side and rear lot lines.
4.
Home occupations.
5.
Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, nursing homes, rest homes, residences for aged persons, orphanages, group homes, half-way homes and personal care homes.
6.
Public (governmental-owned) buildings and structures.
7.
Recreational developments including, but not limited to lakes, swimming pools, golf courses, and golf driving ranges, subject to Planning Commission approval of the developer's comprehensive site development plan which must include:
A.
Site map of not less than 1" = 400' scale.
B.
The location and function of all buildings.
C.
Proposed modifications of the natural landscape.
D.
Location and surface treatment of all roadways.
E.
Appropriate details of drinking water and sanitary facilities.
F.
A timetable for build-out.
8.
Schools (State certified/licensed) from nursery and day care through high school.
9.
Towers for radio transmission and reception, not to exceed 180 feet high, and limited to the sole use of the resident.
Sec. 4. - Minimum Lot Size
