Chapter 54 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county saved from repeal, § 1-6(6); any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-6(9); any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county saved from repeal, § 1-6(15); land development standards, ch. 38; planning, ch. 50; traffic and vehicles, ch. 70; utilities, ch. 74.
State Law reference— Probate court's jurisdiction involving the removal of obstructions from roads, O.C.G.A. § 15-9-30.1; damaging public property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 et seq.; governmental authorization for construction or maintenance of any private road unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-8; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; grants for construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.; inspection of and reports on roads and bridges by county police, O.C.G.A. § 36-8-6; power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 54-1—54-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ENCROACHMENTS ON PUBLIC ROADS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Forms referred to in this article for an application for encroachment on public road and a land disturbing permit have been omitted from this codification but are available from the Pickens County Land Development Office, 213 North Main Street, Suite 202, Jasper, Georgia, 30143.
State Law reference— Damaging public property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.

Sec. 54-31. - Requirements of encroachment; applicability.
Any person, firm, company, sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership, organization, individual or government who desires to encroach and/or cross any public road/right-of-way in the unincorporated areas of the county, maintained by the county, shall be required to follow the procedures and fulfill the conditions set forth in this article. This article shall apply to all land disturbing activities, including, but not limited to, installation of utility pipes and lines, and any activities which are conducted upon the public roads/rights-of-way of the county.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XIII, § I; Res. of 4-19-2018(2))
Sec. 54-32. - Procedures and conditions.
(a)
A permit for such activity must be obtained from the county planning and development office prior to any land disturbing activity.
(1)
Applications for permits shall be in writing, shall contain a detailed description of the project, shall state the beginning and completion dates for such project, and shall have sketch drawings attached.
(2)
Applications for permits shall be made at least 72 hours prior to the time the encroachment is to be made.
(b)
Applicants shall be required to make a damage deposit/bond with each application unless waived by county due to applicants prior good work and repair record. Deposit/bond amounts for the following operations shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges:
(1)
To cut a plant mix road when cutting is necessary.
(2)
To bore under a roadway.
(3)
To cut a surface treatment road when cutting is necessary.
(4)
To install along the side of county road.
(5)
To install a meter.
(6)
Additional bonds may be required for major projects.
(7)
Deposits/bonds are partially or fully refundable upon proper repair as determined by county inspection.
(c)
All installations other than crossing a roadway must be a minimum of 48 inches from the edge of existing pavement or edge of existing gravel roadbed.
(d)
Cutting of roads will be permitted only if it cannot be bored; the final determination of whether the road can be bored or not being in the sole discretion of the county.
(e)
Any cut or disturbance across or on paved roadway, if approved, and any other disturbance of a county road/right-of-way must be repaired in accordance with the most current department of transportation regulations and specifications of the county.
(f)
Applicant must call for an inspection by the county planning and development office during the repair when the:
(1)
Road is cut.
(2)
Cut is backfilled.
(3)
Concrete is poured.
(4)
Job is completed.
(g)
Applicants must complete all repairs and submit completed job for inspection by county planning and development office in not more than 14 days after the work is commenced unless an extension is granted.
(h)
Any permit issued under this article may be revoked upon finding by the planning and development office and/or county commissioners that the holder is not in compliance with this article.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XIII, § II; Res. of 8-13-1999; Res. of 4-19-2018(2))
Sec. 54-33. - Indemnify and hold harmless the county.
All permits issued under this article shall require a signed acknowledgement by the holder of the permit that:
(1)
The holder shall indemnify and hold harmless the county from any claim, suit, damage or legal action for damages to any third party as a result of the work performed under such permit; and
(2)
The county shall not be responsible, financially or otherwise, for future relocation cost in the event of future road widenings or upgrades, and that applicant has no vested right to permanent location of the land disturbing activity regulated in this article.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XIII, § III; Res. of 4-19-2018(2))
Sec. 54-34. - Penalty for violation.
Any person, firm, company, sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership, organization, individual or government who violates this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XIII, § V; Res. of 4-19-2018(2))
Secs. 54-35—54-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TIMBER HARVESTING[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Damaging public property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.

Sec. 54-66. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this article is to regulate the use of county or county-maintained roads in the county by those transporting commercially harvested timber, whether such timber is harvested in the county, any adjoining county or from any other location. It is not the intent of this article to regulate timber harvesting in any environmental context. A county governing authority may by ordinance or resolution require all persons or firms harvesting standing timber in any unincorporated area of such county for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, or wood chips to any woodyard or processing plant located inside or outside this state to provide notice of such harvesting operations to the county governing authority prior to entering onto the property and in no event later than 24 hours after entering onto the property. Such persons shall give notice of cessation of cutting within 24 hours after the job is completed.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XII, art. I, § 1.1; Res. of 4-19-2018(2))
Sec. 54-67. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County-maintained road means any road which is used for U.S. Postal delivery or school bus routes and is maintained on a regular basis by the county whether or not such road is officially a county road.
County road means any road which is shown on the most current state department of transportation maps as a county road of Pickens County, Georgia.
Letter of credit means a valid irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or other financial institution.
Person means any individual or corporation transporting logs for commercial purposes in the county.
Property owner means the person or persons who own the property from which the transported timber is harvested.
Surety bond means either a cash bond or a bond posted by a licensed bonding or insurance company.
Timber means pulpwood or logs.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XII, art. II, § 2.1; Res. of 4-19-2018(2))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 54-68. - County permit and surety bond or letter of credit.
(a)
Prior written notice shall be required of any person or firm harvesting such timber for each separate tract. The application form shall be maintained in the planning and development office of Pickens County and shall conform to the following:
(1)
A map of the area which identifies the location of the tract to be harvested and, as to those trucks which will be traveling to and from such tract for purposes of picking up and hauling loads of cut forest products, the main point of ingress to such tract from a public road and, if different, the main point of egress from such tract to a public road;
(2)
A statement as to whether the timber will be removed pursuant to a lump sum sale, per unit sale, or owner harvest for purposes of ad valorem taxation;
(3)
The name, address, and daytime telephone number of the timber seller if the harvest is pursuant to a lump sum or per unit sale or of the timber owner if the harvest is an owner harvest; and
(4)
The name, business address, business telephone number, and nighttime or emergency telephone number of the person or firm harvesting such timber;
(b)
Notice may be submitted in person, by transmission of an electronic record via fax, email, or such other means as approved by the governing authority, or by mail;
(c)
Persons or firms subject to such notice requirement shall be required to deliver a bond or letter of credit as provided by this paragraph, in which case notice shall not be or remain effective for such harvesting operations unless and until the person or firm providing such notice has delivered to the governing authority a valid surety bond, executed by a surety corporation authorized to transact business in this state, protecting the county, against any damage caused by such person or firm in the amount of $5,000.00 or, at the option of the person or firm harvesting timber, a valid irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or financial institution, in the amount of and in lieu of such bond. Pickens County shall require no more than one bond from each person or firm harvesting timber regardless of the number of tracts harvested in unincorporated Pickens County by each such person or firm so long as the bond remains in effect. Otherwise, a valid replacement bond must be obtained and delivered to the governing authority no later than the close of business on the fifth business day following the day that Pickens County filed a claim to recover damages against the then-existing bond. Upon filing such claim, Pickens County shall immediately provide notice thereof, including the date such claim was filed, to the person or firm causing the damage. Such notice may be given in person, by transmission of an electronic record via fax, or by email. For purposes of this paragraph, any such surety bond or letter of credit shall be valid only for the calendar year in which delivered;
(d)
Notice shall be effective for such harvesting operation on such tract within such unincorporated area of the county upon receipt of the same by the governing authority and until such time as the person or firm giving such notice has completed the harvesting operation for such tract; provided, however, that any subsequent change in the facts required to be provided for purposes of such notice shall be reported to the governing authority within three business days after such change.
(e)
Pickens County shall not require a fee of any kind for receiving a notification of timber harvesting.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XII, art. III, §§ 3.1—3.4; Res. of 2-26-2009, § 1(Exh. A); Res. of 4-19-2018(2))
Sec. 54-69. - Liability for damages; violations.
(a)
The timber harvester/transporter and/or the property owner shall be liable to the county for damage to county or county maintained roads caused by the transport of timber in an amount necessary to return such roads to their normal and usual condition, together with all court costs in the event such issue is litigated in any manner.
(b)
Violation of the notice requirements of this section shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500.00.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XII, art. IV, §§ 4.1, 4.2; Res. of 4-19-2018(2))
Sec. 54-70. - Safety regulations.
Any person harvesting or transporting timber in the county shall adhere to the following safety regulations:
(1)
No equipment, trucks, trailers or machinery shall be allowed to park on the county road or its right-of-way.
(2)
Any logging operation in the county, or within 1,000 feet of the county line if outside the county but utilizing a county road for access to the property, shall post at least two signs in both directions of the truck road entrance as follows: one sign 500 feet from such entrance stating "SLOW, TRUCK ENTERING HIGHWAY" and one sign 1,000 feet from such entrance stating "WARNING LOGGING OPERATION AHEAD." Each of the four signs shall be 42 inches × 42 inches, orange in color, and posted at least three feet from the travel surface of such road. Such signs shall be maintained in such a manner so as to be easily visible by approaching traffic.
(3)
Each logging operation shall furnish their own signs, which must be in substantial compliance with the regulations stated in this section.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. XII, art. V, § 5.1; Res. of 2-26-2009, § 1(Exh. A); Res. of 4-19-2018(2))
Sec. 54-71. - Reserved.
Editor's note— The second resolution adopted on April 19, 2018, repealed § 54-71, which pertained to revenue generated by policy in this article and the distribution thereof and derived from an ordinance of August 8, 1997, ch. XII, art. VI, § 6.1.
