ARTICLE XI. - COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Sec. 38-850. - Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to protect the public health, safety and general welfare by establishing minimum development standards for commercial property.
(Res. of 8-6-1999, § 5)
Sec. 38-851. - Definition.
Commercial development is defined as the construction of any structure for use as a commercial, business, industrial, or manufacturing facility.
(Res. of 8-6-1999, § 5)
Sec. 38-852. - Conformance to other rules and regulations.
In addition to the minimum standards outlined in this chapter, all proposed commercial development shall comply with all applicable local and state resolutions, regulations and statutes. The county development officer shall withhold approval of any commercial development which is known to be in conflict with state and/or local regulations or statutes. For all developments abutting a state or interstate highway, no building permit shall be issued until the approval of the Georgia Department of Transportation has been obtained by the applicant on entrances and exits, turn radii, drainage and other matters that are the appropriate concern of that department.
(Res. of 8-6-1999, § 5)
Sec. 38-853. - Commercial development approval process.
All commercial development in the unincorporated areas of Pickens County shall be submitted to the county development officer for review and approval. All commercial development shall submit a site plan which complies with the provisions of section 38-854. The county development officer shall review the proposed development for compliance with this chapter.
(Res. of 8-6-1999, § 5)
Sec. 38-854. - Information in commercial site plan.
The following information is required to be included on the commercial site plan:
(1)
The drawing shall contain a graphic scale, north arrow, date, acreage, and owner/developers name, address and telephone number.
(2)
The names of adjoining property owners shall be shown in relation to the proposed development.
(3)
The names of all streets or roadway abutting or crossing the property with width of all rights-of-way shown.
(4)
The boundary of any flood hazard areas.
(5)
A detailed access plan to enter county or state right-of-way.
(6)
A location sketch map shall be provided which shows the location of the site in relation to existing public roads, streams power transmission lines, etc.
(7)
A detailed and scaled drawing of the location of the commercial building on the property, together with all other improvements which will not be attached to the main structure.
(8)
A detailed and scaled drawing of all public parking spaces provided as well as access lanes for emergency vehicles.
(9)
A detailed and scaled drawing of buffers if buffers are required.
(10)
Approval of the county sanitation office showing site meets requirements for sewage treatment.
(11)
Utility and drainage plans shall be provided which shall include all information necessary for the appropriate county official to determine that the water, sewer, sanitary disposal and storm drainage improvements will be made and located in accordance with county requirements, and, where applicable shall also contain soil erosion and sedimentation control measures.
(Res. of 8-6-1999, § 5)
Sec. 38-855. - Building lines.
Commercial building setback lines shall be at least 40 feet from the front property line. A corner lot shall be at least 40 feet from each property line. The building shall otherwise be at least 15 feet from the side and rear property lines.
(Res. of 8-6-1999, § 5; Res. of 2-26-2009, § 1(Exh. A))
Sec. 38-856. - Buffer requirements.
(1)
If the proposed commercial development adjoins residential property, appropriate buffers shall be erected to protect the enjoyment of the residential property.
(2)
Buffers shall be located within and along the outer perimeter of the parcel which abuts the residential property. Buffers shall not be located on any portion of existing, dedicated or reserved public or private street right-of-way.
(3)
No building permit shall issue for any development requiring a buffer until such time as that buffer, as specified herein, shall be substantially in place.
(4)
All buffers required by this section shall conform to the following specifications:
(a)
Prior to development, a buffer plan shall be required to show the types and location of all screening devices within a required buffer.
(b)
Screening is a method of visually shielding or obscuring one use from another by fence, walls, berms or densely planted vegetation. Screening shall provide a year round visual screen from the ground to a minimum of six feet in height. The fence or wall shall be placed on the other edge of the buffer.
(c)
Landscaping within buffer areas shall be used to screen objectionable views or nuisances, such as parking and service areas, refuse containers, air conditioning units and transformers.
(d)
A buffer shall have not less than a 12-foot base width and shall consist of plantings having a year round foliage, or a fence, or a wall, or a berm, or any combination thereof, with a total minimum height of six feet. The required buffer shall provide not less than 90 percent visual blockage. If a buffer consists of plantings only, then said planting shall be an evergreen species which under normal growing conditions will attain a minimum height of six feet.
(5)
Responsibility for maintenance of a required buffer shall remain with the owner of the commercial property. Maintenance is required to ensure the proper functioning of a buffer as a landscaped area which reduces or eliminates nuisances and/or conflict.
(Res. of 8-6-1999, § 5)
Sec. 38-857. - Access to county roads; interior streets; design standards.
(1)
All commercial development accessing a county road must meet minimum AASHTO standards for accel/decel lanes, entrances, and paving.
(2)
All streets established in connection with the commercial development must meet minimum AASHTO standards.
(Res. of 2-26-2009, § 1(Exh. A))
Sec. 38-858. - Penalties.
Violations of this section shall be subject to penalties as set forth in section 38-9.
(Res. of 8-6-1999, § 5)
