ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access means the right to cross between public and private property, thereby permitting pedestrians and vehicles to enter and leave property.
Accessory building means a subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that of a main building and located on the same lot as the main building.
Alley means a public or legally established thoroughfare, other than a street, which affords a secondary means of access to abutting property.
Alteration of building means any change in the support members of a building except such change as may be required for its safety; an addition to a building; or any change in use from that of one district classification to another or of a building from one location to another.
Area of special flood hazard means the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equalled or exceeded in any given year.
Best management practices (BMP's) means a collection of structural measures and vegetative practices which, when properly designed, installed and maintained, will provide effective erosion and sedimentation control for all rainfall events up to and including a 25-year, 24-hour rainfall event.
Block means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the subdivision, or a combination of such boundaries with a river or lake.
Board means the board of natural resources.
Bond means a legal instrument with a clause which establishes a sum of money fixed as a penalty, binding the parties to pay the penalty; conditioned, however, that the payment of penalty may be avoided by the performance by the part of certain acts.
Buffer means the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Buffer strip means a land area of appropriate design providing a visual and noise separation between incompatible land uses.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, including tents, lunch wagons, dining cars, mobile homes, and similar structures whether stationary or movable.
Building setback line means a line delineating the minimum allowable distance between the property line and a building on a lot, within which no building or other structure shall be placed except as otherwise provided.
Campground means a parcel of land used or intended to be used, let or rented for occupancy by campers or for occupancy by camping trailers, tents, or movable or temporary dwellings, rooms or sleeping quarters of any kind.
Commission means the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission. (To replace earlier definition of Committee.)
Crosswalk means a right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, intended primarily for pedestrian use, and designed to provide access to adjacent roads and lots.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as excavation.
Department means the department of natural resources.
Design standards means the specifications to land owners or subdividers for the preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other things, the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of such items as rights-of-way, blocks, easements, and lots.
Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
Development officer means a person appointed by the county commission who is charged with the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
Director means the director of the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
District means the Limestone Valley Soil and Water Conservation District.
Division means the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys waters from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Dwelling means a building or portion thereof, exclusive of mobile homes as defined in this section, used for residential purposes.
Dwelling; multiple means an attached building designed for occupancy by two or more families living independently of each other.
Dwelling; single-family means a detached building designed to be occupied exclusively by one family.
Dwelling unit means one or more rooms and a single kitchen designed as a unit for occupancy by only one family for cooking, living, and sleeping purposes.
Easements means a grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the specified purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities; including, but not limited to sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice, or gravity.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan for the control of soil erosion and sedimentation resulting from a land disturbing activity. Also known as the "plan".
Escrow means a legal agreement between a developer and the county or the appropriate agency or utility in lieu of actual performance and intended to assure performance.
Existing grade means the vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground.
Filling means the placement of any soil or other solid material either organic or inorganic on a natural ground surface or an excavation.
Final plat means a finished drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the requirements of these regulations in such form as required by the local jurisdiction and showing, completely and accurately, all legal design and engineering information, and certificates necessary for recording.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
Flood means an overflow of lands not normally covered by water that results in significant adverse effects in the vicinity.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means the official map issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency where the areas of special flood hazard have been designated as zone A.
Floodway fringe areas means areas lying outside the floodway district but within the area which would be flooded by the regional flood.
Floodways means the natural channel and the portion of the floodplain along the channel which must be retained solely for the passage of floodwaters to prevent an undue increase in flood heights upstream. Water travels at a high velocity in the floodway.
Frontage means all the property on one side of a street between two intersecting streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or if the street is dead ended then all the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Hospitals or convalescent homes means any publicly or privately owned medical treatment facility, rest home, or convalescent home.
Individual sewage disposal system means a septic tank, seepage tile sewage disposal system, or any other sewage treatment device other than a public treatment system approved by the county health department.
Issuing authority means the governing authority of any county or municipality which has been certified by the director of the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources as an issuing authority, pursuant to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, as amended, or the division in those instances where an application for a permit is submitted to the division.
Land-disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in section 38-706(1)e.
Local planning commission means the Pickens County Planning Commission.
Lot means a piece, parcel, or plot of land in one ownership, which may include one or more lots of record.
Lot area means the total surface area of land included within lot lines.
Lot corner means a lot of which at least two adjoining sides abut their full lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of two such sides is less than 135 degrees.
Lot depth means the average distance from the street line of the lot to its rear line, measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
Lot, double frontage means a lot other than a corner lot abutting two streets.
Lot frontage means that dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
Lot; interior means a lot other than a corner lot.
Lot lines means the boundary dividing a given lot from the street, an alley, or adjacent lots.
Lot of record means a lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the superior court clerk's office, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the superior court clerk's office prior to the date of passage of the resolution from which this chapter derived.
Lot width means the width of a lot at the building setback line measured at right angles to the centerline of its depth.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, useable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor.
Manufactured home/mobile home/trailer means a detached unit with any or all of the following characteristics:
(1)
Designed for longterm occupancy with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems.
(2)
If the metal frame is completely removed from a unit and the unit meets the building codes, it shall be classified as a modular unit. If the entire metal frame cannot be removed, it shall be classified as a trailer (mobile home).
(3)
Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a complete unit and ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation supports, connection to utilities and the like.
(4)
Designed to be freestanding and does not require a foundation for occupancy.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means a state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Minimum floor elevation means the lowest elevation permissible for the construction, erection, or other placement of any floor including a basement floor.
Mobile home park means a plot of ground upon which three or more mobile homes occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
Mobile home space means a plot of ground within a mobile home park designated for the accommodation of not more than one mobile home of single-family occupancy.
Modular home means a factory fabricated dwelling over 32 feet in length and at least 24 feet wide designed and constructed without carriage of hitch collar as stationary house construction for placement upon permanent foundation, to be permanently connected to utilities, for yearround occupancy. It can consist of two or more components that can be separated when transported but designed to be jointed into one integral unit. Modular homes shall meet the minimum standards for house construction as specified in the Southern Standard Building Code, the FHA Minimum Property Standards, the State Factory Built Housing Rules, and have a roof with at least a 3/12 pitch.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
Percentage of grade means on street center line, the distance vertically (up and down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct a land disturbing activity under the provisions of this article.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of this state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Planning commission means the county planning commission whose membership is appointed by the county commissioner.
Plat; preliminary and final:
(1)
Preliminary means a tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision meeting requirements enumerated in this chapter and showing the proposed layout in sufficient detail to indicate unquestionably its workability.
(2)
Final means the final map or as built drawing and accompanying materials, described in this chapter, on which the subdividers plan of the subdivision is presented to the planning commission for approval and which, if approved by the commission is recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court.
Poultry house means any type of structure used for the raising and growing of fowl, including, but not limited to, chickens, turkeys, keeping laying hens for commercial or profit making uses.
Preapplication review means an initial and informal stage of subdivision review at which the developer may make known preliminary plan proposals and the county may respond and/or advise the developer concerning the subdivision regulations.
Private street means a street over which the general public has no right of use and is not maintained by the county road department.
Project means the entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Property owners association means a legally constituted association of property owners who commonly owns and is responsible for the maintenance of commonly owned property and improvements in a development.
Protective covenants means contracts made between private parties or conditions recorded with an approved plat and running with the land, specifying the manner in which land may be used, developed, or improved with the view to protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Public water system means any water distribution system which has 15 or more service connections or serves more than 25 people.
Recreation park or center means any public property used for recreational activities including, but not limited to ball fields, swimming pools, gymnasiums, tennis courts, walking trails and picnic areas.
Reserve strip means a strip or parcel of land along, around, or between properties, the purpose of which is to restrict access.
Residence means any structure used to house any individual who intends this structure to be his place of abode.
Resubdivision means a change in a map of any approved or recorded subdivision plat altering the number of lots incorporated within the confines of the original plat.
Right-of-way means a strip of land designated, reserved, dedicated, or purchased for the purpose of pedestrian or vehicular access or utility line installation.
Roadway means the actual road surface including necessary road shoulders and drainage facilities including ditches and curbing and guttering, which is utilized to transport motor vehicles.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such materials that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other site.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
Setback line (or building line) means a line beyond which no foundation wall, eave, or other part of any building shall project, unless specified exceptions are made elsewhere in these regulations.
Slope means the degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually expressed in percent or degree.
Soil and water conservation districted approved plan means an erosion and sedimentation control plan approved in writing by the Limestone Valley Soil and Water Conservation District.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation and/or mulch or other ground cover and/or in combination with installing temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Start of construction includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not as part of the main structure. For a structure (other than a mobile home) without a basement or poured footings, the "actual start" includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure or any part thereof on its piling or foundation. For mobile homes not within a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision, the "actual start" is the date on which the construction of facilities for servicing the site on which the mobile home is to be affixed (including at a minimum the construction of streets, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and installation of utilities) is completed.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership or corporation.
Storm waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural and artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Street means a right-of-way for vehicular traffic whether designated as street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, drive, expressway, boulevard, lane, place, circle, alley, or otherwise.
(1)
Arterials mean those roads which are designed to carry rapid, continuous traffic to major magnets within the urban area. Routes will usually pass through or near the heart of the city, connecting residential, commercial, industrial and public activity areas.
(2)
Bypass means a highway designated for fast, continuous movement of all types of traffic between highways and widely separated parts of the urban area. Bypasses generally have limited or controlled access and are usually grade separated at railroads and major crossings.
(3)
Collector streets mean those streets which bring traffic to arterials, or interconnect arterials. They provide for relatively easy movement at moderate speeds from homes and businesses to arterials.
(4)
Local streets mean those streets which provide direct access to abutting properties.
(5)
Alley or service drive means a minor access way used for service access, or property access under specified circumstances, to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
(6)
Marginal access street means a residential street parallel and adjacent to major thoroughfares or arterial streets and which provides access to abutting properties with protection from through traffic.
(7)
Cul-de-sac means a local street or road with only one outlet and having an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
(8)
Half street means a street or road adjacent to a subdivision tract boundary where only half the required right-of-way and road improvements are provided within the proposed subdivision and the responsibility for the other half is undecided or is left to the adjacent property owner.
Street line or right-of-way line means a dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and a contiguous street.
Structural alterations mean any change in the supporting members of a building such as bearing walls or bearing partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
Structural erosion and sediment control practices means measures for the stabilization of erosive or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps, land grading, etc. Such measures can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Structural practices mean soil and water conservation measures, other than vegetation, utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating, or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss; including but not limited to riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps, land grading, etc.
Structure means anything constructed or erected which requires location on the ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground. The term shall include such things as gasoline pumps, signs, mobile homes, and other portable vehicles or structures from which products are vended, and similar objects.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for any purpose, whether immediate or future, including but not limited to divisions for sale, rental, legacy, or building development. This definition shall include resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided.
(1)
Minor subdivision means a subdivision of land in which there are no new roads developed, no utility extensions and developments which contain seven or less lots.
(2)
Major subdivision means all subdivisions of land which are not classified as a minor subdivision.
Substantial improvement means for a structure built prior to the enactment of this chapter, any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure either:
(1)
Before the improvement or repair is started; or
(2)
If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration on any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
(3)
Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
Swine operation means any type of structure or pen used for the growing, raising, or breeding of swine for commercial or profit making uses.
Trout streams mean all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Game and Fish Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
Vegetative erosion and sediment control practices mean measures for the stabilization of erosive or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover; or
(2)
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands mean those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Yard means an open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upwards, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
Yard; front means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot and located between the street line and the front line of the most protruding portion of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard; rear means an open space on the same lot with a principal building, unoccupied except by a permitted accessory building, extending the full width of the lot and located between the rear line of the most protruding portion of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard; side means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building located between the side of the most protruding portion of the building and the side line of the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. II, art. II; ch. IV, art. II; ch. X, art. I; Res. of 12-29-2000, § 3; Res. of 11-14-2003, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 38-2. - Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and general welfare by establishing minimum development standards and administrative procedures for insuring compliance with these standards.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. I, art. I, § 1.100)
Sec. 38-3. - Authority.
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in Ga. Const. art. XI, § IV (O.C.G.A. § 32-6102).
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. I, art. I, § 1.101)
Sec. 38-4. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall apply to the unincorporated areas of the county and to any incorporated area electing to adopt the chapter.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. I, art. I, § 1.102)
Sec. 38-5. - Development officer—Position created.
The county land development chapter shall be administered by the county development officer. The development officer shall be appointed by and report to the county commissioner. The development office shall coordinate his activities with the county planning commission, county sanitarian, tax assessor, county commissioner and all other interested parties.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. VIII, art. I, § 8.100)
Sec. 38-6. - Same—Duties.
The duties of the county development officer shall be as follows:
(1)
Review and approve all subdivisions of land as defined in section 38-1 of this chapter.
(2)
Coordinate the review of all soil erosion and sediment control plans, issue land disturbing permits and inspect the on-site erosion control measures.
(3)
Review and approve access permits as required in section 38-546 et seq. of this chapter.
(4)
Review and issue building permits.
(5)
Review and approve mobile home parks.
(6)
Issue noncompliance and stop work orders.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. VIII, art. I, § 8.101)
Sec. 38-7. - Same—Powers.
The county development officer shall have the power to enforce the provisions of this chapter. He shall have the authority to issue stop work orders and to cite violators of the chapter to court. The county development officer shall have the power to conduct investigations as reasonably deemed necessary to carry out his duties of enforcing the chapter, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating and inspecting the site.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. VIII, art. I, § 8.103)
Sec. 38-8. - Development permits required.
This chapter will be administered through the use of development permits. All of the permits except the septic tank permit will be issued by the county development officer. A permit fee, in an amount established by the county commissioner, shall be charged to partially defray the cost the county incurs in administering this chapter. The permits required in the county are as follows:
(1)
Minor subdivision certificate;
(2)
Major subdivision certificate;
(3)
Land disturbing permit;
(4)
Access permit;
(5)
Building permit;
(6)
Mobile home park certificate;
(7)
Septic tank permit;
(8)
Cell tower permit;
(9)
Sign permit; and
(10)
Permit for on site wastewater treatment and disposal facilities in excess of 10,000-gallon capacity.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. VIII, art. I, § 8.102; Res. of 12-29-2000, § 3; Res. of 8-8-2006, § 2)
Sec. 38-9. - Fines for noncompliance.
Any person who violates any provision of the county land development chapter or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in section 1-11. In addition to other penalties set forth in the various chapters, any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be liable for a civil monetary fine of up to $2,500.00 for each violation or failure or refusal to comply with such standards, the amount of such fine to be imposed by the land development office as part of its duties to enforce such standards.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. VIII, art. I, § 8.104)
Sec. 38-10. - Administrative appeals.
Any party aggrieved by any decision of the county development officer may within 30 days thereafter appeal therefrom to the county planning commission. The appellant shall furnish the development officer a written notice of appeal specifying the judgment of decision from which appeal is taken. If any party does not agree with the decision of the county planning commission, he may appeal to the county commissioner. A decision by the county commissioner shall be the final administrative appeal and his decision shall be carried out by the county development officer.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. VIII, art. I, § 8.105)
Sec. 38-11. - Legal appeals.
Any party, aggrieved by a decision or order of the county commissioner, shall have the right to appeal de novo to the superior court of the county.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. VIII, art. I, § 8.106)
Sec. 38-12. - Variances.
The developer shall make a request in writing for a variance from the land development regulations described in this chapter 38 to the county development office. The county development office shall make a study of the variance request and make a recommendation to the board of appeals who shall have the authority to grant the variance.
The county development office shall have the authority to grant variances at the administrative level on matters regarding the distances required between a building and the boundary lines of the property as well as vegetative buffers. A denial of this type of variance request may be appealed to the board of appeals.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. IX, art. I; Res. of 2-26-2009, § 1(Exh. A))
Sec. 38-13. - Liability.
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this chapter, nor the compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law or impose any liability upon the county.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. IX, art. III)
Sec. 38-14. - Public notice.
A public hearing shall be held on the adoption of all proposed amendments to this chapter. The notice of the time, date and place of the hearing shall be published in the newspaper of general circulation within the county. The public hearing must be advertised for at least 15 calendar days prior to the public hearing.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. IX, art. IV)
Sec. 38-15. - Adoption and amendments.
The county commissioner shall have the power to adopt and amend this chapter after the public hearing required by section 38-14 is held.
(Ord. of 8-8-1997, ch. IX, art. V)
Secs. 38-16—38-45. - Reserved.
