Chapter 46 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 26.
State Law reference— State parks, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-1 et seq.; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; recreation boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-5; Georgia state games commission, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.; power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 46-1. - Alcoholic beverages prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, consume, or serve any alcoholic beverage within a county park or county recreational area.
Sec. 46-2. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Res. of July 1, 2010, repealed § 46-2 which pertained to firearms prohibited and bore no history notes.
Sec. 46-3. - Provisions saved from repeal.
The resolution adopted September 12, 1977 which created the Pickens County Park and Recreation Board is not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect pending a revision of the subject matter by the county.
Secs. 46-4—46-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Authorities, boards and commissions, § 2-66 et seq.

Sec. 46-36. - Department of parks and recreation created; duties.
There is hereby created a Department of Parks and Recreation for Pickens County, referred to in this article as the department of parks and recreation, to be organized and funded through and under the office of commissioner of the county. The department of parks and recreation shall have the responsibility and duty of providing and maintaining a parks and recreation program for the citizens of the county. The department of parks and recreation shall consist of a director of parks and recreation and a parks and recreation advisory board.
Sec. 46-37. - Office of director created; duties.
There is hereby created the office of director of parks and recreation; such director of parks and recreation to be employed by the commissioner of the county and to serve at the discretion of such commissioner.
(1)
The director of parks and recreation shall organize and manage a parks and recreation program.
(2)
The director of parks and recreation may employ personnel necessary for maintenance of the program with the approval of the commissioner.
(3)
The director of parks and recreation shall prepare and submit to the commissioner an annual budget for the program and a quarterly report of all income and expenditures for such program.
(Res. of 2-1-1993, § II)
Sec. 46-38. - Parks and recreation advisory board created; duties.
There is hereby created a Parks and Recreation Advisory Board for Pickens County, Georgia, referred to in this article as the parks and recreation advisory board.
(1)
The parks and recreation advisory board shall consist of nine members, appointed by the commissioner of the county, who shall serve one-year terms beginning January 1 and ending December 31 and who can be reappointed.
(2)
The parks and recreation advisory board shall meet regularly, and at the call of the director of parks and recreation, to advise and assist in planning and implementing the parks and recreation program; to advise and assist in the preparation of the annual budget and the quarterly reports of income and expenditures; to assist in maintaining an inventory and accounting of all property utilized or owned by the department of parks and recreation; and to do such other things as necessary for the department of parks and recreation.
(3)
The parks and recreation advisory board shall select from its members a chairperson to preside and a secretary to keep accurate minutes and records. The director of parks and recreation shall act as treasurer. The parks and recreation advisory board may select other officers and committees from its members or the general public as it deems necessary.
(Res. of 2-1-1993, § III; Res. of 2-12-98)
Sec. 46-39. - Monies regulated.
Any accounts maintained by the department of parks and recreation separate from the general fund of the office of commissioner shall be in a banking institution designated by the commissioner and shall require the signatures of the director of parks and recreation and one other member of the parks and recreation advisory board. Any such account shall be in the name of "Department of Parks and Recreation of Pickens County, Georgia" and have an address of the office of commissioner.
(Res. of 2-1-1993, § IV)
