Chapter 42 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - RESERVED

Sec. 42-1. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CRIMES AGAINST PERSONS

Sec. 42-2. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following acts or things within the unincorporated area of Pickens County, Georgia, shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and shall be punished in accord with the provisions of this section. Such acts or things which shall constitute disorderly conduct are more particularly described as follows:
(1)
Fighting or quarreling or acting in such a manner as to annoy or disturb the peace, quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, school building, hospital or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
(2)
Using any indecent, vulgar, obscene, threatening or abusive language in or near a public place that has a direct tendency to cause acts of violence by the person to whom or of whom the remarks are addressed.
(3)
Striking or attempting to strike another.
(4)
Assemble or congregate with another or with others to cause, provoke, or engage in any fight or brawl.
(5)
Collect in bodies or in crowds and engage in unlawful activities and fail to withdraw from the assembly on being lawfully commanded to do so by a peace officer.
(6)
Create by or in any manner loud noises which disrupt, disturb, or otherwise interfere with the peace and tranquility of the public.
(7)
Interfere, by acts of violence, with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation.
(8)
Without provocation, uses obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace.
(9)
Defecating or urinating or exposing genitals or female breast; on or adjacent to any street or sidewalk or in any public or quasi-public parking lot or in the halls, elevators, stairways, or any other area designated for public passage within any public or commercial buildings or on any property open to public view.
(10)
Knowingly and willfully harass or attempt to harass or mislead any E-911 operator or law enforcement officer or firefighter or emergency medical technician by false alarms or repeatedly dialing 911 and hanging up or any unauthorized use of any device of whatever nature to summon law enforcement, firefighters, or emergency medical provider aid without reasonable cause.
(11)
Knowingly and willfully strike, fight, oppose, interfere or prevent the lawful discharge of official duties of the county sheriff, his or her lawful deputies, the county marshal, his or her lawful deputies, a county code enforcement or land development officer, animal control officer, animal shelter staff, firefighter, emergency medical technician, paramedic or other arresting officer.
(12)
Knowingly and willfully provide a false name, address, date of birth or social security number or any personal identification information in an effort to mislead as to his or her identity or personal identification the county sheriff, his or her lawful deputies, the county marshal, his or her lawful deputies, a county code enforcement or land development officer, animal control officer, animal shelter staff, firefighter, emergency medical technician, paramedic or other arresting officer.
(13)
For any person to peddle or sell door to door his or her service or the services of another or any item without a county, state, business, professional or other legal and binding license or permit; unless said individual is raising money for a local not for profit event such as for his/her school, church, etc.
(14)
Knowingly invite, allow, permit, a person(s) under the age of 21 to gather collect, assemble in any building or upon any land for the purpose of consuming alcoholic beverages in violation of state law and or any person(s) to keep and maintain a common, ill-governed, disorderly place which encourages gaming, drinking, misbehavior or disturbance any neighborhood or orderly citizen(s).
(15)
Any person who shall throw any bottle, paper, can, glass, stick, stone, missile or any other debris on public property.
(16)
Any person who shall commit an act of public indecency tending to debauch the morals of any person.
(17)
Any person who shall be found in a state of drunkenness or intoxication upon the public rights-of-way, county or other publicly owned property or any public park.
(18)
Any person who commits any act against public safety, morality and decency, or who exhibits any other conduct that is manifestly disorderly that tends to disturb other persons anywhere in the county.
(b)
Upon conviction of a violation of a section of this chapter, a person shall be punishable in accordance with section 1-11 of this Code. Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Res. of 1-28-2010; Res. of 6-23-2011, § A)
ARTICLE III. - TRUANCY

Sec. 42-3. - Purposes.
The commissioner of the county has determined that an increase in juvenile violence and crime by persons under the age of 16 in the county can be avoided. It is known that persons under the age of 16 are particularly susceptible by their lack of maturity and experience to participate in unlawful activity and to be victims of older perpetrators of crime; and that there has been a significant breakdown in the supervision and guidance normally provided by parents for minors resulting in crimes and other unacceptable behavior, such as illiteracy, juvenile pregnancy, increased school drop-out rate. The county has an obligation to provide for the protection of minors from each other and from other persons, for the enforcement of parental control over and responsibility for children, for the protection of the general public, and for the reduction of the incidence of juvenile criminal activities which are not easily controlled by existing laws and ordinances. The commissioner of the county has determined a truancy ordinance for those of school age will be in the interest of the public health, safety, and general welfare and will help to attain the foregoing objectives and to diminish the undesirable impact of such conduct on the citizens of the county and will promote the public good, safety and welfare. Parental responsibility for the whereabouts of children is the accepted norm and legal sanctions to enforce such responsibility have had demonstrated effectiveness in many communities. The commissioner of the county has determined that a truancy ordinance will increase parental responsibility for minors within their control and decrease minor delinquency.
(Res. of 6-23-2011, § B(42-3.1))
Sec. 42-4. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
Emergency errand. A mission that results from an unforeseen combination of circumstances that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
Minor. Any unemancipated person under the age of 17.
Public place. Any place to which the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, alleys or rights-of-way, to include sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, malls, or other places or buildings open to the public; any cemeteries, school yards, bodies of water or watercourses; any privately or publicly owned places of amusement, entertainment or public accommodation including parking lots, and any vacant lot or land.
School day. Any day of the week in which school is in session and students are normally expected to attend. This term does not include any religious holidays for which a student's professed religion prohibits such student from school attendance.
(Res. of 6-23-2011, § B(42-3.2))
Sec. 42-5. - Minors prohibited from being upon streets and other public places at certain daytime hours; exceptions.
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 16 years to loiter, wander, stroll, or play in or upon any public place unsupervised by a parent, guardian or other adult 21 years of age or older having the lawful care and custody of the minor and having the lawful authority to be at such places between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. on any school day; provided, however, that the provision of this section shall not apply in the following incidents:
(a)
When the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his/her parent, guardian, or other adult person 21 years of age or older having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(b)
When the minor is traveling directly from home to lawful employment or returning directly home from lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in above referenced places during the proscribed period of time;
(c)
When the minor is engaged in interstate and intrastate vehicular travel through the county with parental consent;
(d)
When the minor is enrolled in a valid home study program as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690, and has written consent from a parent or legal guardian to be outside the home;
(e)
When the minor has graduated from high school;
(f)
When the minor is married pursuant to state law;
(g)
When the minor has written proof from school authorities that he/she is excused from school attendance at that particular time; or
(h)
When the minor is participating in an approved school or study activity which requires the minor to be off school property.
(Res. of 6-23-2011, § B(42-3.3))
Sec. 42-6. - School attendance required.
It shall be unlawful for any child who is subject to compulsory school attendance requirements as established under O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690.1 to be absent from school without a valid excuse. Such excuse must be provided to a school official within five school days of the absence. This section shall also apply to those persons who are required to attend school as part of a court order.
(Res. of 6-23-2011, § B(42-3.4); Ord. of 5-18-2017)
Sec. 42-7. - Parental responsibility.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the parent or legal guardian of a minor under the age of 16 years to permit, or by insufficient control, to allow a minor to violate a section of this chapter. A person charged with a violation of this subsection (a) for the first time shall be issued a citation and upon appearance, the court may inquire as to the cause of the violation and take such action that may be necessary to aid the parent or guardian in addressing the cause. Such action may include but is not limited to the making of referrals to social service agencies or other entities who can provide resources for addressing the cause(s) of the violation. If appropriate and in the best interest of the child, the court may withhold adjudication on a first offense and require reviews with the parent or guardian for a period of the remainder of the school year in which the violation occurred. The school district shall notify the court if there are no further violations during the period of absence and if none occur, the court shall dismiss the case with no further action. Upon any subsequent violation in the same school year, the person shall be issued a new citation for each such violation. Each subsequent violation shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished in accordance with section 42-12. Citations for this subsection can be served upon the parent(s) by the sheriff or a lawful deputy, the marshal or a lawful deputy or by a constable of the magistrate court.
(b)
All parents or legal guardians seeking to enroll a student in the county school district shall be required to provide the following information to the district:
(1)
Proof of residency in a form acceptable to the district;
(2)
Copy of student's birth certificate, passport, or other proof of age acceptable to the district;
(3)
Copy of social security card and/or notarized waiver form;
(4)
Completed state public health immunization form and/or notarized religious objection form as supplied by the district;
(5)
Completed state eye, ear, dental, and nutrition form as supplied by the district;
(6)
Such other information that the district has requested in writing.
Failure to provide said information within 30 days of enrollment or notice by the district shall be punishable pursuant to section 42-12.
(Res. of 6-23-2011, § B(42-3.5); Ord. of 5-18-2017)
Sec. 42-8. - Responsibility of parent or guardian for supervision of minors expelled or suspended from school.
If a minor is suspended or expelled from school, that minor's parent or legal guardian, for the duration of the suspension or expulsion, shall:
(a)
Personally supervise the minor or arrange for a responsible adult 21 years of age or older to supervise the minor at the times that the minor would have been required to be in attendance at school had he/she not been expelled or suspended; and
(b)
Prohibit the minor from being in any public place at the times the minor would have been required to be in attendance at school had he/she not been suspended or expelled unless:
(1)
The minor is accompanied by his/her parent or legal guardian or a responsible adult, 21 years of age or older, selected by the parent or legal guardian to supervise the minor; or
(2)
The minor is actually and lawfully employed or traveling directly to or from the job site.
(Res. of 6-23-2011, § B(42-3.6))
Sec. 42-9. - Jurisdiction of juvenile and magistrate courts.
Any minor under the age of 17 who violates a section of this chapter is subject to the jurisdiction of the juvenile court. Any person who has attained the age of 17 and violates any section of this chapter shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the magistrate court.
(Res. of 6-23-2011, § B(42-3.7))
Sec. 42-10. - Disposition of violating minors.
A law enforcement officer shall transport any minor found in violation of this chapter to a designated school district facility. A minor transported to the school district facility will be released to the custody of the school officials or to the custody of his/her parent or legal guardian.
(Res. of 6-23-2011, § B(42-3.8))
Sec. 42-11. - Each violation deemed separate offense; affirmative defense for violation of section of this chapter.
Each violation of any section of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. It shall be an affirmative defense if the parent or legal guardian has initiated a petition of delinquency in the juvenile court against the minor under age 17, prior to the time that the minor was found in violation of section 42-5.
(Res. of 6-23-2011, § B(42-3.9))
Sec. 42-12. - Punishment for violation of chapter.
Upon conviction of a violation of a section of this chapter, a person shall be punishable in accordance with section 1-11 of this Code. Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Res. of 6-23-2011, § B(42-3.10); Ord. of 5-18-2017)
Sec. 42-13. - Educational incentive fund.
(a)
There is created a special fund by the county. The fund shall be known as the "educational incentive fund." Said fund shall be for the educational benefit of school aged children of the county who are deemed indigent and are found in need of basic educational supplies, basic personal supplies or special educational incentives while enrolled in the county schools. Monies from said fund may also be used to aid in meeting the objectives of the attendance protocol committee as they relate to compulsory school attendance.
(b)
All fines and administrative fees for violations of this article shall be collected by the clerk of court charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the governing authority upon receipt of the fine and assessment if paid in full at the time of sentencing or upon receipt of the final payment if the fine is paid in installments. Those sums paid over to the governing authority shall be deposited thereby into a special account to be known as the "educational incentive fund." All monies paid into the special fund shall be segregated from the general funds of the county and shall be subject to audit as required by law. Nothing in this section shall prohibit any court from directing monies to be paid into this fund for violation of any part of the Code of Ordinances or as a result of the buy-out of any community service. The clerk of court shall transmit with the monies showing the style of the case and the case number from which the monies were collected.
(c)
Monies may be paid from the fund only upon request and approval. All requests for use of said funds must be either endorsed by or made by the county school district or its agent. For purpose of this section, the agent of the schools shall be considered the school superintendent, school attendance officer or the school social worker. Upon endorsement of the request for said funds, the application shall be transmitted to a judge of a court of competent jurisdiction. Upon review, the judge may approve in whole or in part the application and shall issue an order directing the governing authority to pay out approved expenditures.
(d)
For purposes of this section, a court of competent jurisdiction shall be any court with jurisdiction to try offenses involving section 42-3 of this Code.
(Res. of 6-23-2011)
Editor's note— A resolution adopted June 23, 2011, did not specifically amend the Code and has been included herein as § 42-13 at the discretion of the editor.
Secs. 42-14—42-16. - Reserved.
