Chapter 30 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; courts, ch. 34.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.; authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 30-1—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 30-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or their imminent threat, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons for stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out these functions.
(Code 1991, § 9-111(1))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-32. - Office of emergency management director.
In agreement with the governing officials of the incorporated cities within the county, there is established the county emergency management agency. The chairman of the county commissioners, with concurrence of the mayors of the incorporated cities within the county, shall nominate for appointment by the governor a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the county and the cities in the county on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 30-31. Such plan will be in accordance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity.
(6)
To obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Code 1991, § 9-111(2))
Sec. 30-33. - County emergency management agency.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments, and the emergency functions are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions
Chairman, county commissioners Direction and control
Administrative services
Sheriff's office and police department Communication and warning
Police services
Evacuation
Emergency management agency Search, rescue and recovery
Public information
State military support training
Damage assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
Specific hazards
Fire department Fire control
Hazardous materials control
County roads department Engineering
Office, superintendent of schools Transportation
Food services
City manager's office Petroleum and solid fuel
Utilities
County DFACS Social services
Shelter, temporary housing
Morgan Memorial Hospital Health and medical services
  (b)
Heads of departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Code 1991, § 9-111(3))
Sec. 30-34. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairman of the county board of commissioners, jointly with the mayors of the affected cities, or in their absences their legally appointed successors, vice-chairman/mayor pro tem, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise, for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
To seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 1991, § 9-111(4))
Sec. 30-35. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county and cities in the county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county and city officers and employees.
(Code 1991, § 9-111(5))
Sec. 30-36. - Penalty.
Any person violating the provisions of this article, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1991, § 9-111(6))
