Chapter 13 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Acquisition of parks, § 1.03(j).
Cross reference— Animal regulation in Armstead and Milam Parks, § 12-55.
State Law reference— Parks, playgrounds and recreation centers, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.

Sec. 13-1. - Closing hours of parks.
City parks shall be closed to all public use during such hours and on such days as shall be prescribed from time to time by the parks committee of the city council; provided, however, that such hours and days be posted on a sign at each entrance to said parks. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any park during hours posted as being closed hours; provided however, notice of possible fine and imprisonment shall be posted on a sign at each entrance of the park.
(Ord. No. 88, §§ 1, 2, 4-2-79)
Sec. 13-2. - Alcoholic beverages: Drinking or possession in parks.
It shall be unlawful to consume alcoholic beverages or possess containers of alcoholic beverages on or upon park areas within the city limits.
(Ord. No. 156, 5-1-90)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 156, adopted May 1, 1990, did not specifically amend the Code; therefore, inclusion as § 13-2 was at the discretion of the editor.
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, Ch. 3.
Sec. 13-3. - Restriction on the use of certain athletic parks.
(a)
In order to protect park visitors making use of the playground, dog park and swimming pool at Milam Park, it shall be unlawful for any person over the age of twelve (12) years to use the athletic field in Milam Park for the purpose of playing baseball or softball.
(b)
For the purposes of this section, a person shall be considered to be "playing baseball or softball" if he or she is a participant on a team which is playing or practicing baseball or softball on said field, or if he or she strikes a baseball or softball with a bat while located on that field. Throwing a baseball or softball on that field shall not constitute "playing baseball or softball" so long as such throwing is not part of an organized game or practice.
(c)
The forgoing notwithstanding, this section is not intended to prohibit any person who is acting as a coach for children twelve (12) years old and under from participating in coaching drills with such children.
(d)
The city manager shall cause signs to be posted at the subject field at Milam Park to inform the public of the restrictions as set forth in this section.
(e)
Any person who shall be in violation of this section shall be punished in accordance with section 1-7 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 167, § 1, 8-6-91; Ord. No. 452 , § 1, 10-6-20)
Sec. 13-4. - Outdoor lighting.
(a)
In order to provide for the peace, tranquility and general convenience of the citizens of Clarkston, all lighted outdoor events or activities where the lighted area exceeds two thousand (2,000) square feet must cease no later than 8:30 p.m., local time, and all such lighting shall be extinguished at that time. It shall be the affirmative duty of the owner or lessee of such property to comply with the provisions of this section. To violate the provisions of this section shall be deemed unlawful conduct subject to the penalties and punishment provided in section 1-7 of this Code.
(b)
This section shall not apply to the tennis courts in Milam Park, a city owned and operated facility, nor shall it apply to security lighting, public or private, which is left on from sundown to sunup.
(Ord. No. 259, § 1, 7-2-02)
Sec. 13-5. - Use of city property for golf practice, putting greens, or driving ranges.
No person shall use any park or other area owned and operated the City of Clarkston for recreation purposes as a field for golf practice, a putting green, or driving range. Violations of this ordinance are punishable pursuant to the provisions of section 3.06 of the charter and section 1-7 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 304, § 1, 4-4-06)
