Chapter 50 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; civil emergencies, ch. 30.
State Law reference— Adoption of rules and regulations by the state safety fire commissioner, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4; regulations as to buildings constituting special hazards on account of fire, O.C.G.A. § 22-2-13 et seq.; seats, fire escapes and building constituting safeguards in buildings over two stories in height, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Fire prevention scope.
The provisions of the Standard Fire Prevention Code, this chapter, rules and regulations, and other fire protection ordinances of the city, shall apply equally to both public and private property, and shall apply to all structures and their occupancies, except as otherwise specified.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-10, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-2. - Exercise of police power.
This act shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the City of Fayetteville for the preservation and protection of the public health, peace, safety, and welfare, and all the provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed for that purpose.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-6, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-3. - Applicability of provisions.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to both public and private property, and shall apply to all structures and their occupancies, except as otherwise specified.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-5, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-4. - Violations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this chapter, to permit or maintain such a violation, to refuse to obey any provision thereof, or to fail or refuse to comply with any such provision or regulation. Proof of such unlawful act or failure shall be deemed prima facie evidence that such act is that of the owner or other person in control of the premises. Prosecution or lack thereof of either the owner, occupant, or the person in charge shall not be deemed to relieve any of the others.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-4, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-5. - Penalties for violations.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Standard Fire Prevention Code, this chapter, or other fire-related ordinance or rule or regulation; or shall fall to comply therewith, or shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or shall build in violation of any details, statements, specifications, or plans submitted or approved thereunder; or shall operate not in accordance with the provisions of any certificate, permit, or approval issued thereunder; and from which no appeal has been taken; or shall fail to comply with such order as affirmed or modified by the city council or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed herein shall severally for each and every violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $1,000.00 and/or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days or by both such fines and imprisonment. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation nor excuse required correction or remedy of such violations or defects within a reasonable time, and when not otherwise specified, the application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-14, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-6. - Inspections.
(a)
The fire chief or his assistants and inspectors shall inspect or cause to be inspected all premises on a periodic basis for compliance with the Standard Fire Protection Code, this chapter, rules and regulations and other fire protection ordinances of the city, and shall make such orders as may be necessary for the enforcement of the laws and ordinances governing the same.
(b)
Additionally, upon complaint submitted in writing alleging a failure to comply with the Standard Fire Prevention Code, this chapter, and fire-related rules, regulations, and ordinances, the fire chief or assistants or inspectors may enter in or upon any building or premises complained of for the purpose of investigating the complaint.
(c)
Additionally, if the fire chief or assistants or inspectors has been deputized by the state safety fire commissioner pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12.1, then that person is further authorized to seek inspection warrants against noncooperating parties pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-22.1. Inspection warrants may be issued by any judge of the superior, state, municipal or magistrate court upon proper oath or affirmation showing probable cause.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-11, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-7. - Order to remove fire hazard.
Whenever the fire chief or inspector, shall find in any building, or upon any premises or other places, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous accumulations of rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes, shavings, or any highly flammable material especially liable of fire, and which is so situated as to endanger property; or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows, liable to interfere with the operations of the fire department or egress of occupants in case of fire, the fire chief or inspector shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and such order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant of such premises or buildings, subject to the appeals procedure provided for in this chapter. Any owner or occupant failing to comply with such order within a reasonable period after the service of the said order shall be liable to penalties as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-12, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-8. - Service of order to remove hazard.
The service of any such order may be made upon the occupant or owner of the premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy of same to such occupant or owner personally, or leaving it with any person in charge of the premises, or, in case no such person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of said premises, such order may be served either by delivering to and leaving with said person a copy of the order, or, if such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making the order, by mailing such copy by certified mail to the owner's last known address.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-13, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-9. - Submission of plans and specifications required.
Owners, their agents or designees, of all buildings and tenant spaces covered by this chapter are required to submit plans and specifications of the project to the city manager or his designee. The city manager or his designee shall forward all plans to the fire chief's office for approval prior to construction. A final inspection and letter of compliance must be obtained from the fire chief prior to occupation or conducting of business.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-7, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-10. - Permits.
In accordance with requirements as detailed in chapter 4 of the Standard Fire Prevention Code, a permit shall be obtained from the fire chief to conduct certain operations described therein, or to store, handle, or use those processes described therein that are considered to present an extra or unusual fire hazard to life or property. Before permits may be issued, the fire chief or assistants and inspectors shall inspect and approve the receptacles, processes, vehicles, buildings, storage places or sites to be used for any such purposes. A $10.00 processing fee to cover administrating cost shall be imposed upon each permit application. The city shall revoke or suspend an individual's or entity's business license for violation of this section. Violation of this section shall be punished by a fine of up to $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment of up to 30 days.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-15, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-11. - Fire lanes.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand a vehicle within a designated fire lane.
(b)
A fire lane shall be a 12-foot traffic lane closest to buildings and other structures, unless otherwise designated. The police chief or the fire chief shall be authorized to designate fire lanes within the city by the posting of signs or by markings upon the pavement or roadway, so designating the fire lanes, or by requiring the owner of the property to so designate the fire lane.
(c)
This section shall be enforced by any police officer of the City of Fayetteville. Citations for violations shall be issued by such officers.
(d)
Any person, corporation, partnership or other entity violating this section shall be tried before the municipal court of the City of Fayetteville and shall, upon conviction, be subject to up to the maximum fine and/or the maximum term of imprisonment as authorized by the city's Charter.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-19, 5-20-96; Ord. No. 0-55-96, § I(3), 12-16-96)
Sec. 50-12. - Building numbering and identification for emergency response.
(a)
Each one- and two-family dwelling unit shall have posted and maintained in a conspicuous place on the property, visible from the street providing general public access, the address of such dwelling unit in figures at least three inches high on a contrasting background.
(b)
Each multifamily (three or more dwelling units) building shall have posted and maintained in a conspicuous place on the building, visible from the parking lot or street providing general public access, the address(s) or number(s) of the building in figures at least six inches high on a contrasting background and each individual apartment/unit within the building shall be marked on or about its main entrance with the individual apartment/unit number and/or address in figures at least three inches high on a contrasting background. In addition to the above, where a multifamily building has more than one exterior entrance, each such entrance shall be marked, in figures at least three inches high on contrasting background, with the numbers and/or address of each and every individual apartment/unit to which access is provided through that common entrance.
(c)
Each place of business shall have posted and maintained in a conspicuous place on the property, visible from the street providing general public access, the address of the place of business in figures at least six inches high on a contrasting background. In addition to the numerals posted on the street access side of a structure, commercial occupancies shall place street address numbers and business name at the rear entrance to their establishments and at such other locations as required by the fire chief.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-16, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-13. - Outdoor burning.
(a)
No open burning shall be conducted in violation of Georgia Department of Natural Resources Environmental Protection Division Regulations, chapter 391-3-1, as revised. In addition to any environmental protection division authorizations which may be required, no open burning shall take place in the city except as otherwise provided herein without a permit issued by the fire chief, or his designee, and in full compliance with any conditions imposed by the fire chief. The fire chief may prohibit any or all burning when local conditions make such fires hazardous. Failure to obtain a permit and keep such permit at the site or follow the fire chief's requirements set forth for the permit will result in revocation of the permit and/or a fine up to $1,000.00 for each and every occurrence.
(b)
Permits shall not be required for the following:
(1)
During the months of October through April, the reduction of leaves and any other organic material by the owner or person in control of a residential occupancy, provided such burning takes place after sunrise with all fires to be completely extinguished one hour before sunset. The fire shall not create a nuisance to neighbors nor be started during an air pollution advisory in effect or in periods of high winds or any other climatic conditions that would create a hazardous condition.
(2)
Outdoor cooking of food for immediate human consumption is allowed.
(3)
Small outdoor fires using untreated wood are allowed to keep persons warm for working outdoors.
(4)
Fires set for the purpose of firefighting training are allowed.
(c)
The burning of tires, asphaltic materials, heavy oils, petroleum based products, rubber or plastic products, pressure treated wood and household garbage is prohibited under all circumstances.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-17, 5-20-96)
Secs. 50-14—50-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE

Sec. 50-41. - Fire prevention code.
There is hereby adopted by the city council of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, that certain code known as the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., being particularly the 1994 edition of Standard Fire Prevention Code. Reference to this chapter shall include said Standard Fire Prevention Code. This fire prevention code is hereby adopted in its entirety, save and except such portions are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended in section 50-43, and is hereby incorporated by reference as fully as if set out at length herein and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the incorporated area of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia. Not less than one copy of the Standard Fire Prevention Code is filed at city hall and not less than one copy is filed in the office of the chief of the City of Fayetteville Fire Department.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-1, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-42. - Adoption of state code.
In addition to above-referenced Standard Fire Prevention Code, there is hereby adopted by the city council of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, the State of Georgia minimum fire safety standards as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12 and all subsequent revisions thereof. This code is hereby incorporated by reference as fully as if set out at length herein and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the incorporated area of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia. Furthermore it is hereby resolved that pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12(b), the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, will enforce the minimum fire safety standards as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12(a).
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-2, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-43. - Fire prevention code amendments and changes
The Standard Fire Prevention Code of the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., is amended and changed in the following respect:
Amend chapter 1 of the fire prevention code by deleting sections 105, 105.1, 105.3, and substitute a new section as follows:
Sec. 1-5. Appeals.
Whenever the fire chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit when applied for, or when it is claimed the provisions of the Standard Fire Prevention Code, this chapter, or other city fire-related rules, regulations, or ordinances do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the same has been misconstrued or improperly applied, claimant may appeal the decisions to the city council of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, within 30 days from the date of decision.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-18, 5-20-96)
Secs. 50-44—50-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE DEPARTMENT[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 50-71—50-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FIRE CHIEF[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 50-96. - Position of fire chief.
The fire chief of the Fayetteville Fire Department shall be responsible for the direct administration and enforcement of the City of Fayetteville Standard Fire Prevention Code, this chapter and other fire prevention and protection rules, regulations and ordinances. The fire chief of the Fayetteville Fire Department may appoint qualified members of the fire department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The fire chief of the Fayetteville Fire Department may also designate such number of inspectors as shall from time to time be authorized by the City of Fayetteville. When used in this chapter, the term "fire chief" shall include the fire chief and the chief's lawful designees.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-3, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-97. - Duties of fire chief.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the fire chief (which shall be a concurrent duty of the police department of the city) in addition to the general duties of section 50-42, to enforce all laws and ordinances of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, covering the following:
(1)
The prevention of fires.
(2)
The storage, sale and use of combustible, flammable or explosive material.
(3)
The installation and maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm systems, and fire extinguishing equipment.
(4)
The maintenance and regulations of fire escapes.
(5)
The means and adequacy of exit in case of fire from factories, schools, hotels, lodginghouses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters, amphitheaters and all places in which numbers of persons work, live or congregate, from time to time, for any purpose.
(6)
The investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires.
(7)
The establishment of fire lanes.
(8)
Fire safety, fire prevention, and fire protection.
(b)
The fire chief shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, by which property has been destroyed or damaged and, as far as possible, shall determine whether the fire is the result of carelessness or design. Such investigations shall begin immediately upon the occurrence of such a fire, and if design is suspected, the fire chief shall take charge immediately of the physical evidence and cause a complete investigation to be initiated to include prosecution. Every fire shall be reported in writing within the fire department as soon as possible after the occurrence of the an investigated fire. Such reports shall be in such form as shall be prescribed by the fire chief, and shall contain a statement of all facts relating to the cause, origin and circumstances of such fire, the extent of the damage thereof, and the insurance upon such property and such information as may be required, including the injury, death or rescue of persons.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-8, 5-20-96)
Sec. 50-98. - Powers of fire chief.
The fire chief, his designees and fire inspectors are hereby vested with the powers of police officers while acting in their fire department capacity, and are authorized to issue citations for violations of the Standard Fire Prevention Code, this chapter, rules and regulations, or other fire protection ordinances enacted by the city protection ordinances enacted by the city.
(Ord. No. 0-25-96, § 12-9, 5-20-96)
