Sec. 18. - (Restatement) Commission's procedures.
modified
All appointments and elections by the commission shall be viva voce and this vote recorded in the journal of the commission.
(a)
The commission may determine its own rules of procedure, may punish its members for misconduct, and may compel attendance of its members in such manner and under such penalties as may be prescribed by the commission. It shall keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of all the members of the commission shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time. The affirmative vote of at least three members of the commission shall be necessary for the election of any officer, or the removal of any officer, or the passage of any ordinance or resolution. Upon request of any commissioner, the votes of all commissioners upon any question shall be recorded upon the journal. No person elected to the commission shall, during the term for which said person was elected, be elected to any other position or office of trust or profit under the city government. Except as changed or modified by the terms of this Act, all rules of procedure now in force with reference to the handling of business and passage of ordinances by the mayor and commission under the present Charter, shall continue of force until changed or modified by the commission.
(b)
Any person shall have the right to address or speak to the city commission on official actions of the city commission at regular or called meetings of the city commission, or on official actions of the city commission or other topics relating to the business and interests of the city at work sessions, by expressing his or her desire to speak no later than the beginning of the meeting at which such person desires to address or speak to the city commission. The city commission may enact reasonable restrictions on the exercise of such right, including, but not limited to, decorum and identification of speakers; provided, however, that the city commission shall not impose any requirements that such persons sign up or express their desire to speak at any earlier time or date than provided in this subsection.
(1922 Ga. Laws (Act No. 471), p. 1087, ยง 13; Ord. No. O22-07 , ยง 1, 6-7-2022)
