ARTICLE VII. - FINANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-350—2-371. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ACCOUNTING STANDARDS FOR BUREAUS, AGENCIES, ETC., RECEIVING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE CITY

Sec. 2-372. - Purpose.
The ordinance from which this division is derived is enacted for the purpose of establishing accounting standards and requirements and shall apply to any agency as defined herein.
(Code 1977, § 4½-1; Ord. No. 90-32, § 1(4.1-1), 11-6-1990)
Sec. 2-373. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agency means each bureau, authority, agency, commission, committee, organization, corporation or other body which receives financial assistance from the city.
Financial assistance means grants and payments to an agency but not payments for goods and services rendered.
Noncompliance means failure to act in accordance with the laws, regulations and contractual terms governing financial assistance that an agency received from the city.
(Code 1977, § 4½-2; Ord. No. 90-32, § 1(4.1-9), 11-6-1990)
Sec. 2-374. - Certification.
Each agency as defined in this division or in any contract with the city shall provide to the city annually, within 30 days of the commencement of the fiscal year of the city:
(1)
Certification by an agency duly authorized and elected officers that said officers are duly elected and authorized to execute the certification.
(2)
That the agency has in operation an accounting system (satisfying generally accepted accounting principles) that will safeguard assets of the agency including, but not limited to, financial assistance funds from the city.
(3)
Such other certification that may be required in this division, applicable laws, and by contract with the city.
(Code 1977, § 4½-3; Ord. No. 90-32, § 1(4.1-2), 11-6-1990)
Sec. 2-375. - Internal control structure.
Each agency as defined in this division or in any contract with the city shall adopt and enforce an internal control structure sufficient to control the use of its funds especially those which it receives from the city to ensure that said funds are used in accordance with the purposes of the city and in accordance with applicable laws. The officers of each agency shall certify compliance with this section annually at the same time that they give the certification required by section 2-374.
(Code 1977, § 4½-4; Ord. No. 90-32, § 1(4.1-3), 11-6-1990)
Sec. 2-376. - Line item budget.
Each agency shall adopt annually a line item budget showing anticipated receipts and anticipated expenditures, and giving the purpose and amount of such receipts and expenditures. Each agency shall furnish the city, within 30 days of the commencement of the fiscal year of the city, a certificate by its officers that such budget has been adopted.
(Code 1977, § 4½-5; Ord. No. 90-32, § 1(4.1-4), 11-6-1990)
Sec. 2-377. - Financial report—Quarterly.
In addition to the other requirements of this division, each agency shall provide to the city during the months of January, April, July and October of each year an accurate financial report showing actual receipts and expenditures on a quarterly and year-to-date basis as compared to the budget adopted by such agency.
(Code 1977, § 4½-6; Ord. No. 90-32, § 1(4.1-5), 11-6-1990)
Sec. 2-378. - Same—Annually.
Each agency shall prepare and file with the city within 45 days of the end of the fiscal year of the agency an annual financial report of the agency's actual receipts and expenditures together with a comparison of the actual budget with such receipts and expenditures.
(Code 1977, § 4½-7; Ord. No. 90-32, § 1(4.1-6), 11-6-1990)
Sec. 2-379. - Audits.
Each agency which is required by applicable law to cause all or part of its funds or accounts to be audited shall cause such audit to be conducted and a copy of all written audit reports, exhibits, appendices, and attachments shall be given to the city within ten days after such audit reports are completed.
(Code 1977, § 4½-8; Ord. No. 90-32, § 1(4.1-7), 11-6-1990)
Sec. 2-380. - Noncompliance.
If any agency should be guilty of noncompliance with any term or provision of this division or in violation of any applicable law or regulation requiring financial audits, statements or reports, the city shall be authorized to cease providing further financial assistance to such agency. The city shall be entitled to a refund from such agency of all such financial assistance provided to the agency during the period in which the agency is in noncompliance.
(Code 1977, § 4½-9; Ord. No. 90-32, § 1(4.1-8), 11-6-1990)
Secs. 2-381—2-403. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - FIXED ASSETS

Sec. 2-404. - Capitalization and depreciation.
Whenever the city purchases a fixed asset, the cost of which is $5,000.00 or greater, the city shall capitalize such fixed asset and depreciate the same in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Expenditure of less than $5,000.00 can be currently expended.
(Code 1977, § 4½-21; Ord. No. 01-01, § 1, 1-2-2001)
Secs. 2-405—2-421. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM

Sec. 2-422. - Short title.
This division shall be known as the identity theft prevention program.
(Code 1977, § 4½-31; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-423. - Purpose.
The purpose of this division is to comply with 16 CFR 681.2 in order to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying and detecting identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a manner that will prevent identity theft.
(Code 1977, § 4½-32; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-424. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Covered account means:
(1)
An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
(2)
Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or litigation risks.
Credit means the right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and defer payment therefor.
Creditor means any person who regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; any person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies and telecommunications companies.
Customer means a person that has a covered account with a creditor.
Identity theft means a fraud committed or attempted using identifying information of another person without authority.
Personal identifying information means a person's credit card account information, debit card information bank account information and drivers' license information and for a natural person includes their social security number, mother's birth name, and date of birth.
Red flag means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of identity theft.
Service provider means a person that provides a service directly to the city.
(Code 1977, § 4½-33; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-425. - Findings.
(a)
The city is a creditor pursuant to 16 CFR 681.2 due to its provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in arrears.
(b)
Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of city services include water, sewer, garbage, and yard trash accounts.
(c)
The city's previous experience with identity theft related to covered accounts has been limited. The city does have customers attempting to open accounts with suspicious documents.
(d)
The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing covered account and making payments on such accounts have been identified as potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
(e)
The city limits access to personal identifying information to those employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring covered accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts
(f)
The city determines that there is a moderate risk of identity theft occurring in the following ways:
(1)
Use by an applicant of another person's personal identifying information to establish a new covered account;
(2)
Use of a previous customer's personal identifying information by another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer's name;
(3)
Use of another person's credit card, bank account, or other method of payment by a customer to pay such customer's covered account or accounts; and
(4)
Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer's covered account of another person's credit card, bank account, or other method of payment.
(Code 1977, § 4½-34; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-426. - Process of establishing a covered account.
As a precondition to opening a covered account in the city, each applicant shall provide the city with personal identifying information of the customer consisting of a valid government issued identification card containing a photograph of the customer, social security card and in the case of a property owner, proof of ownership. Written authorization is required to change service.
(Code 1977, § 4½-35; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-427. - Access to covered account information.
(a)
Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be limited to authorized city personnel.
(b)
Such password shall be changed every 90 days, shall be at least six characters in length and shall contain letters, numbers and symbols.
(c)
Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to be reported immediately to the city manager and the password changed immediately.
(d)
Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is considered confidential and any request or demand for such information shall be immediately forwarded to the city manager and the city attorney.
(Code 1977, § 4½-36; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-428. - Credit card payments.
(a)
In the event that credit card payments that are made over the Internet are processed through a third party service provider, such third party service provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention program in place that is applicable to such payments.
(b)
All credit card payments made over the telephone or the city's website shall be entered directly into the customer's account information in the computer data base.
(c)
Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include only the last four digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used for payment of the covered account.
(Code 1977, § 4½-37; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-429. - Sources and types of red flags.
All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity theft and such red flags may include:
(1)
Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
a.
Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered or forged;
b.
Identification on which the photograph or physical description is inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
c.
Identification on which the information is inconsistent with information provided by the applicant or customer;
d.
Identification on which the information is inconsistent with readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check; or
e.
An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
(2)
Suspicious personal identification, such as suspicious address change. Examples of suspicious identifying information include:
a.
Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
1.
The address does not match any address in the consumer report; or
2.
The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is listed on the Social Security Administration's Death Master File.
b.
Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the customer, such as a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of birth.
c.
Personal identifying information or a phone number or address, is associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor.
d.
Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address, mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity.
e.
The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other applicants or customers.
f.
The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of applicants or customers.
g.
The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in response to notification that the application is incomplete.
h.
Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor.
i.
The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer report.
(3)
Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other reliable sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to covered accounts.
(Code 1977, § 4½-38; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-430. - Prevention and mitigation of identity theft.
(a)
In the event that any city employee responsible for or involved in restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his discretion, such employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to his immediate supervisor. If, in his discretion, such employee deems that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the finance director, who may in his discretion determine that no further action is necessary. If the finance director in his discretion determines that further action is necessary, a city employee shall perform one or more of the following responses, as determined to be appropriate by the finance director:
(1)
Contact the customer;
(2)
Close the account.
(b)
In the event that any city employee responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with respect an application for a new account, such employee shall use his discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his discretion, such employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to his immediate supervisor. If, in his discretion, such employee deems that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the finance director, who may in his discretion determine that no further action is necessary. If the finance director in his discretion determines that further action is necessary, a city employee shall perform one or more of the following responses, as determined to be appropriate by the finance director:
(1)
Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
(2)
Deny the application for the new account;
(3)
Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
(4)
Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Code 1977, § 4½-39; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-431. - Updating the program.
The city council shall annually review and, as deemed necessary by the council, update the identity theft prevention program along with any relevant red flags in order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the city and its covered accounts from identity theft. In so doing, the city council shall consider the following factors and exercise its discretion in amending the program:
(1)
The city's experiences with identity theft;
(2)
Updates in methods of identity theft;
(3)
Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;
(4)
Updates in the types of accounts that the city offers or maintains; and
(5)
Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Code 1977, § 4½-40; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-432. - Program administration.
The finance director is responsible for oversight of the program and for program implementation. The city manager is responsible for reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and with recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion of the city manager, to address changing identity theft risks and to identify new or discontinued types of covered accounts. Any recommended material changes to the program shall be submitted to the city council for consideration by the council.
(1)
The finance director will report to the city manager at least annually, on compliance with the red flag requirements. The report will address material matters related to the program and evaluate issues such as:
a.
The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of city in addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
b.
Service provider arrangements;
c.
Significant incidents involving identity theft and management's response; and
d.
Recommendations for material changes to the program.
(2)
The finance director is responsible for providing training to all employees responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account, restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered account with respect to the implementation and requirements of the identity theft prevention program. The finance director shall exercise his discretion in determining the amount and substance of training necessary.
(Code 1977, § 4½-41; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
Sec. 2-433. - Outside service providers.
In the event that the city engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more covered accounts the finance director shall exercise his discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to ensure, to the best of his ability, that the service provider's activities are conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in the performance of the service provider's activities and take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Code 1977, § 4½-42; Ord. No. 08-37, § 1, 10-21-2008)
