Chapter 18 - COURTS

Sec. 18-1. - Additional sums collected from offenders to cover jail construction and staffing.
(a)
The Jail Construction and Staffing Act is hereby placed into effect in the County.
(b)
In every case in which any court in the County shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this State or any offense against a County ordinance, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(c)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this State or a violation of a County ordinance, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any court in the County shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be collected.
(d)
The additional penalties set forth above shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 to be paid into the Judges of Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia, or by any other provision of law.
(e)
The additional penalties as herein prescribed shall be assessed and collected by the Clerk or Court Officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds. Such additional penalties shall be paid over to the Board of Commissioners by the tenth day of the month following the month in which these sums are collected.
(f)
All such sums collected and paid over to the Board of Commissioners of the County shall be deposited into a special account which shall be known as the "County Jail Fund."
(g)
All monies collected pursuant to this section and placed in the County Jail Fund shall be expended solely and exclusively for construction, operating, and staffing the Dooly County Jail, or for such other purposes as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(h)
The additional penalties provided for by this section shall not be imposed or collected in any court operated by any municipality located in the County.
(Res. of 12-14-1989)
State law reference— Fee authorized, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93.
