PART I - CHARTER AND RELATED LEGISLATION
Charter, Georgia Laws 1891, Page 474
Finances. Georgia Laws 1929, Page 907
Mayor's Court. Georgia Laws 1931, Page 707
Executions and Fi. Fas. Georgia Laws 1943, Page 1352
Elections; Payment of Taxes. Georgia Laws 1945, Page 872
Airport. Georgia Laws 1951, Page 2718
Corporate Limits. Georgia Laws 1952, Page 2714
Recorder. Georgia Laws 1953, Page 2323
Waterworks and Sewerage Administration. Georgia Laws 1953, Page 2951
City Supervisor. Georgia Laws 1961, Page 2945
Terms of Officers. Georgia Laws 1974, Page 2794
Corporate Limits Extended. Georgia Laws 1974, Page 2795
CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:

GEORGIA LAWS 1891, PAGE 474

Section I. - Corporate limits.
Editor's note— The corporate limits were completely redescribed by Ga. Laws 1952, P. 2714 to extend 1% miles in every direction from the center of the public square where the old courthouse stood and also all of the Lake Carroll Development and the property then composing the municipal airport. The corporate limits were further altered by Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2795. These limits have been altered further by subsequent action of the mayor and council. Consequently, the original description is not set out herein. An official city map is on file in the office of the city clerk.
Section II. - Composition of government; general corporate powers.
Be it further enacted, That the municipal government of the city of Carrollton shall consist of a mayor and four councilmen, who are hereby constituted a body corporate under the name and style of the mayor and city council of Carrollton, and by that name and style shall have perpetual succession; shall have a common seal and be capable in law and equity to purchase, have, hold, receive, enjoy, possess and retain to them, and their successors, for use of the city of Carrollton, any estate or estates, real or personal, of whatsoever kind or nature, within and without the jurisdictional limits of said city, for corporate purposes; and shall by the said name be capable of suing and being sued in any court of law or equity in this State, and shall succeed to all the rights and liabilities of the corporation of the city of Carrollton.
Section III. - Qualifications of mayor and councilmen; terms of office.
(a)
For the purpose of electing councilmen, the City of Carrollton shall be divided into four election wards consisting of the following territory within the City of Carrollton:
Election Ward 1
The area between a line which begins at the Northerly intersection of the center line of North Park Street with the City Limits extending Southerly to the intersection of the center line of Maple Street; thence Southwesterly on the center line of Maple Street to the intersection of the center line of South Street; thence Westerly along the center line of South Street to the center line of Matthews Avenue; thence Northerly along the center line of Matthews Avenue to the center line of Foster Street; thence Westerly along the center line of Foster Street to its intersection with the center line of South Street; thence Westerly along the center line of South Street to the center line of Brumbelow Road; thence Northerly along the center line of Brumbelow Road to its intersection with the center line of Lovvorn Road; thence Westerly along the center line of Lovvorn Road to the City Limits.
Election Ward 2
The area between the line which begins at the intersection of the center line of North Park Street with the City Limits extending Southerly to the intersection of the center line of Maple Street; thence Northeasterly along the center line of Maple Street to its intersection with the center line of Alabama Street; thence Easterly along the center line of Alabama Street across Adamson Square and continuing Easterly on the center line of Newnan Street to its intersection with the center line of Cedar Street; thence Easterly along the center line of Cedar Street to its intersection with the center line of Burns Road; thence Northerly along the center line of Burns Road to the intersection of the center line of Barnes Road; thence Southeasterly along the center line of Barnes Road to the City Limits.
Election Ward 3
The area between a line which begins at the intersection of the center line of Hays Mill Road with the Southerly City Limits of the City of Carrollton and extending Northerly along the center line of Hays Mill Road to the center line of Longview Street; thence Northeasterly along the center line of Longview Street to the center line of Maple Street; thence Northeasterly along the center line of Maple Street to the center line of Alabama Street; thence Easterly along the center line of Alabama Street and continuing across Adamson Square Easterly and along the center line of Newnan Street to the center line of Cedar Street; thence Easterly along the center line of Cedar Street to the center line of Burns Road; thence Northerly to the center line of Barnes Road; thence Southeasterly along the center line of Barnes Road to the City Limits.
Election Ward 4
The area between a line formed by the South boundary of Ward 1 and a line beginning at the intersection of the center line of Maple Street and the center line of Longview Street and thence continuing Southwesterly along the center line of Longview Street to the center line of Hays Mill Road; thence Southerly along the center line of Hay Mill Road to its intersection with the City Limits.
(b)
For the purposes of this section:
(1)
Whenever the description of any election ward refers to a names city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census maps for the United States decennial census of 1980 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
Any part of the City of Carrollton which is not included in any election ward described in this section or any territory annexed into the City of Carrollton shall be included within that election ward contiguous to such part or territory which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 1980 for the State of Georgia.
(c)
Those councilmen in office on April 1, 1985, shall serve out the remainder of the terms to which they were elected. At the city election in 1985, a councilman shall be elected from Election Ward 1 and a councilman shall be elected from Election Ward 2. At the city election in 1987, a councilman shall be elected from Election Ward 3 and a councilman shall be elected from Election Ward 4. A councilman must reside within the election ward from which he is elected and shall be elected by the electors residing within that election ward. The term of office of councilmen shall be for four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(d)
The mayor in office on April 1, 1985, shall serve out the remainder of the term to which he was elected. At the city election in 1987, a mayor shall be elected. The mayor must reside within the city and shall be elected by electors residing within the city. The term of office of the mayor shall be for four years and until his successor is elected and qualified.
(e)
If any time during his term of office the mayor moves his residence from the City of Carrollton, the office shall be declared vacant. If at any time during his term of office a councilman moves his residence from the election ward from which he was elected, the office shall be declared vacant.
(f)
This section shall superseded any provision of the charter of the City of Carrollton which is in conflict with this section, and such conflicting provision of the charter is repealed to the extent of such conflict.
(Ga. Laws 1923, p. 517, § 1; Ga. Laws 1931, p. 705, § 1; Ga. Laws 1937, p. 1036, § 1; Ga. Laws 1985, p. 3542, § 1)
Editor's note— Election to be at large without regard to ward, Ga. Laws 1945, p. 872, § 1; terms, § 2; new election dates, § VIA; terms of office staggered and in creased to four years, Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2794.
State Law reference— Terms of office, O.C.G.A. §§ 21-2-541.1, 21.2-541.2.
Section IV. - Vacancies in office.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor or councilman for any cause whatsoever, the clerk of the City of Carrollton shall call a special election as provided by law to fill the balance of the unexpired term; provided, however, if a regular election for the vacant office is to be held within six months after such vacancy occurs, the office shall remain vacant until the person elected at such regular election takes office.
(Ga. Laws 1985, p. 3542, § 1)
Section V. - Management of elections.
Be it further enacted, That all elections held under the provisions of this charter shall be superintended and managed by a justice of the peace, or some other judicial officer, and two freeholders, or three freeholders, all of whom shall be citizens of said city, and each of said managers, before entering on his duties, shall take an oath before some justice of the peace, or other officer duly qualified to administer an oath, that he will faithfully and impartially conduct said election, and prevent all illegal voting, to the best of his skill and power; and said managers shall cause to be kept two lists of voters and two tally sheets of such election.
Editor's note— Designation of managers and clerks, Ga. Laws 1923, p. 522, § 7.
State Law reference— Poll officers, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-90 et seq.
Section VI. - Time, place for elections.
All elections held in and for the City of Carrollton, Georgia shall be held at the city hall, or at such other place or places as the mayor and city council may by ordinance designate. At all such elections the polls shall be opened at seven o'clock a.m. and closed at seven o'clock p.m.
(Ga. Laws 1923, p. 517, § 3; Ga. Laws 1957, p. 2276, § 1)
State Law reference— Time for opening and closing times of polls, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-403.
Section VIA. - When elections to be held; runoff elections.
Any other provision of this Act or any law to the contrary notwithstanding, beginning with the regular election for city officials in 1979, the regular elections for officials of the City of Carrollton shall be held on the first Tuesday in September of each odd-numbered year. No candidate shall be elected to any city office in any city election unless such candidate shall have received a majority of the votes cast to fill such office. In the event no candidate for the office receives a majority of the votes cast, a runoff election shall be held as provided for in Code Title 34A, the Georgia Municipal Election Code, as now or hereafter amended, or as otherwise provided by the general laws of the State of Georgia. Any person elected to the office of mayor or councilman shall take office on the first Monday following the first Saturday in October following the date of the city election.
(Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3839, § 1)
Editor's note— Ga. Laws 1978, p. 3839, § 1, amended the Charter by adding a new § VIA, which provides for new election dates and runoff elections. Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2794, § 1, had provided for election by plurality, and § III of the Charter had provided for elections to be held on the first Saturday in October.
Section VII. - Disposition of voter list, tally-sheet, ballots.
Be it further enacted, That after the votes at an election shall have been counted by the managers, they shall certify two lists of voters and two tally-sheets and shall place one of said tally-sheets with the ballots in the ballotbox; and shall seal said ballot-box and deposit the same with the city marshal. The other list of voters and tally-sheet shall be filed by the managers with the treasurer, and said city marshal, after the expiration of sixty days, shall destroy the contents of said ballot-box without examining said ballots or allowing name to be done; provided, no notice of contest shall be filed or pending.
State Law reference— Election returns, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-490.
Section VIII. - Installation, oath of persons elected.
Be it further enacted, That on the succeeding Monday after the election, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the persons elected shall appear at the council chamber and take and subscribe the following oath before any judicial officer of this State, and shall forthwith enter upon the duties of his office, to-wit: "I, A. B., do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of mayor, or councilman (as the case may be), of the city of Carrollton, to the best of my skill and ability, without favor or affection, so help me God."
Section IX. - Qualifications of electors.
All persons qualified to vote for members of the Legislature, being registered on the voters' book of the County of Carroll who shall have paid all taxes legally imposed and demanded by authority of the city and have resided six months within the city, next prior to the election at which he or she proposes to vote, shall be entitled to registration, with the rights and privileges and under the restrictions provided by law. Persons not twenty-one years of age, being otherwise qualified, who will reach that age before an election for said city, may register a sufficient time before same to qualify for such election.
(Ga. Laws 1923, p. 522, § 11)
Editor's note— Registration of electors, Ga. Laws 1945, p. 872, § 6.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, qualifications of electors, Ga. Const. art. II, § I, ¶ II.
Section X. - Registration of electors.
That immediately upon this Act going into effect; the clerk of the mayor and city council shall open and keep a book for the registration of voters as a permanent record in his office, open at all times when his office is open for the payment of taxes or other business, except as hereinafter provided. He shall keep in said book separate lists of white and colored voters, who are entitled to vote in said city, giving the age, place of residence, occupation and date of registration of each voter. While qualified voters may register at any time, when the clerk is in his office during office hours, yet the registration lists shall be closed as to regular election thirty days prior thereto and as to any primary or special election fifteen days prior to such primary or special election, and no person shall be permitted to vote in any such election unless his or her name appears on the registration record, having been properly registered thereon a sufficient time prior thereto as herein provided. Said registration shall be permanent and all names registered as herein prescribed shall remain upon said lists and such persons shall be qualified to vote in any election of said city so long as said voter shall not become disqualified or his name or her name stricken from the registration list as hereinafter provided. It shall be the duty of the clerk to check the voters' lists from time to time and upon finding the names of any voters who have died or have become disqualified by failure to pay taxes, by removal from the city, by being stricken from the voters' list by the county registrars on account of the failure to comply with the requirements of the State laws or Constitution, or other legal cause, he shall furnish the mayor and city council with a list of such names, and it shall be their duty to revise such registration lists and determine whether the names of such voters should be stricken from the lists, after the clerk has given five days' notice to said voter, if a resident of the city, said notice to be served personally by the marshal or policeman or by the clerk or by mailing the same to the last known address of the voter. At the time fixed by the notice the voter shall have the right to be heard by the mayor and city council before final action, if desired.
(Ga. Laws 1923, p. 522, § 12)
Editor's note— Registration of electors, Ga. Laws 1945, p. 872, § 6.
State Law reference— Registration of voters, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-210 et seq.
Section XI. - Qualifications of mayor and councilmen.
Be it further enacted, That no person shall be eligible to the office of mayor of the city of Carrollton unless he be of the age of twenty-five years, a citizen of the United States of America, and shall have resided in the city one year immediately preceding his election, and no person shall be eligible to the office of councilman unless he shall have attained the age of twenty-one years, and shall have resided in the city one year immediately preceding his election, and shall have the other qualifications prescribed in the case of the mayor, and shall have paid all taxes due and demanded by said city.
Editor's note— Qualifications of mayor and councilmen, Ga. Laws 1945, p. 872, § 4.
Section XII. - Compensation of mayor, councilmen, clerk, treasurer.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and clerk and treasurer and councilmen shall have an adequate salary, to be fixed by annual ordinance; provided, that the salary of the councilmen shall not exceed six hundred dollars per annum, to be fixed by ordinance.
(Ga. Laws 1964, p. 2515, § 1)
State Law reference— Compensation and benefits for employees and members of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Section XIII. - General powers, duties of mayor.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor shall be the chief executive of the city of Carrollton; he shall see that all laws, ordinances, resolutions and rules of the city are faithfully executed and enforced, and that all officers of the city shall faithfully discharge the duties required of them; he shall have a general jurisdiction of the affairs of the city; he shall preside at all meetings of the mayor and city council of Carrollton; he shall have the right to vote in elections for officers, except as is hereinafter provided, and upon all other questions before said body, except upon questions where he is disqualified by reason of interest, relationship or otherwise.
Editor's note— Position of city supervisor authorized, Ga. Laws 1961, p. 2945.
Section XIV. - Mayor's court established.
Be it further enacted, That there shall be a mayor's court for the trial of all offenders against the law and ordinances of the city, to be held by the mayor, and in his absence or disqualification, by some councilman. Said court shall have the power to preserve order and compel the attendance of witnesses; to punish for contempt by imprisonment not exceeding two days or a fine not exceeding ten dollars, one or both.
Editor's note— Recorder authorized in lieu of mayor, Ga. Laws 1953, p. 2323.
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.
Section XV. - Jurisdiction of court.
The mayor, or in his absence or disqualification some councilman, shall, as often as may be necessary, hold a police court, to be known as a mayor's court, for the trial of all offenders against the law and ordinances of the city of Carrollton. Said mayor's court shall have full power and authority, upon conviction, to sentence such offender to labor upon the streets or other public works for a period not to exceed sixty days, or to impose a fine not the exceed five hundred dollars ($500). Either or all of said penalties may be imposed, in the discretion of the court.
The mayor and council shall have the right, within their discretion to elect a recorded in the same way they now elect other officers of said city. The recorded when so elected and qualified shall preside over the trial of cases in the police court, under the restrictions, regulations, and power so imposed upon the mayor, or a member of the city council in like capacity. He shall be the presiding officer in said court, except when disqualified or absent, when the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem., or member of the City Council of Carrollton, may preside with full powers as the city recorder. The mayor and city council shall fix the salary of the city recorded, and shall have the power to define his duties under ordinances not in conflict with this Act. Said city recorder when elected and qualified, shall have all the power and authority conferred upon him, as city recorded, as now exercised by the Mayor, or Mayor and Council of Carrollton under and by virtue of the charter of the City of Carrollton and the several amendments thereto.
(Ga. Laws 1977, p. 3946, § 1)
Editor's note— Recorder in lieu of mayor, Ga. Laws 1953, p. 2323.
Section XVI. - Mayor and councilmen to be ex officio justices of the peace.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and each of the councilmen shall be bound to keep the peace, and shall be ex officio justices of the peace, so as to enable them to issue warrants for violations of the criminal law of the State committed within the City of Carrollton, and shall have full power, on examination, to commit the offenders to jail, or to bail them, if the offence be bailable, to appear before the court having jurisdiction.
Section XVII. - Bond of clerk and treasurer; duties generally.
Be it further enacted, That the clerk and treasurer of said city shall discharge all the duties imposed by this charter and the laws and ordinances of the city, and as may be required of them by the mayor and city council of Carrollton; and shall give bond, with good security, in such sum as may be fixed by the said mayor and city council of Carrollton, conditional for the faithful performance of their duties as clerk and treasurer of said city.
Section XVIII. - Appointive officers.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have full power to appoint or elect such officers as may be deemed necessary or proper, except as hereinafter provided, and shall have power to regulate the time, mode and manner of electing or appointing such officers and agents; to fix their fees and salaries; to take their bonds; to prescribe their duties and oaths, and may, at discretion, suspend, remove or discharge them at any time, with or without cause.
Editor's note— Supervisor to appoint personnel, Ga. Laws 1971, p. 2945, § 1(b).
Section XIX. - Ad valorem tax authority.
The mayor and city council of the City of Carrollton shall in its discretion proceed to levy and collect such amount as it may deem necessary to school purposes by levy and collection of same as other taxes are collected, and provide that the rate of taxation under this Act shall not exceed two per centum per annum and the mayor and city council of Carrollton, through its collection officer, shall be required to pay the same over to the treasurer of the board of education of said city from time to time as necessary for the operation of said schools which shall then constitute a fund to be expended by said board in payment of all legitimate expenses in running, operation, and maintenance of said schools.
(Ga. Laws 1895, p. 163, § 1; Ga. Laws 1915, p. 529, § 1; Ga. Laws 1917, p. 554, § 1; Ga. Laws 1950, p. 2889, § 1; Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2417, § 1; Ga. Laws 1967, p. 2738, § 1; Ga. Laws 1981, p. 4172, § 1)
Editor's note— Additional tax for utility bond retirement, Ga. Laws 1904, p. 400; school tax, Ga. Laws 1929, p. 907; partial payment of tales, Ga. Laws 1945, p. 872, § 5; school tax, Ga. Laws 1945, p. 872, § 7.
Section XX. - Licensing, regulating businesses.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have the power and authority to license, regulate and control all taverns, hotels, cafes, restaurants, boardinghouses, livery stables, hacks, drays, and other vehicles, auctioneers, vendue-masters, itinerant traders, theatrical performances, shows, circuses and exhibitions of all kinds, itinerant lightning-rod dealers, emigrant agents, clock and stove peddlers, peddlers of all kinds, itinerant dealers in jewelry and all other traveling or itinerant vendors of articles, goods, wares and merchandise of every nature whatsoever; every keeper of a billiard, pool or bagatelle table kept for public use; every keeper of a shooting gallery, ten pin alley; upon the keeper of any other table, stand or place for the performance of any game or play, whether played with sticks, balls, rings, or other contrivance; upon the keeper of flying horses, bicycle, velocipede or skating rinks, insurance agents, life and fire insurance companies, brokers, dealers in futures, loan agents and agents for any other business or calling whatever; keepers of slaughter houses, beef markets, green groceries, dealers in fish, oysters, vegetables, fruits, breads and other articles of food; upon every junk shop, pawnbroker, and upon all other establishments, business callings or avocations not heretofore mentioned, and which, under the laws and Constitution of the State of Georgia, are subject to license.
State Law reference— Business taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.
Section XXI. - Road work or commutation tax.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and council of said town [city] shall have power to enact all ordinances necessary to compel persons liable to road duty under the laws of this State, and residing in said town, to work an equal number of days upon the streets of said town, as they are now required to work upon the public roads, or in lieu thereof to pay such commutation in money as may be prescribed by said council, and such persons shall not be liable to road duty outside said incorporation.
Sections XXII—XXV. - Repealed by Ga. Laws 1951, p. 3211.
Editor's note— The repealed sections dealt with tax assessments and were rendered obsolete by Ga. Laws 1951, p. 3211. Use of county rolls is now authorized by Ord. of June 5, 1972.
Section XXVI. - Power over streets, sidewalks, squares; condemnation.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have free and complete control of the streets, alleys, sidewalks and squares of said city, and shall have the power and authority to open, lay out, widen, straighten or otherwise change all the streets, sidewalks, alleys and squares in said city of Carrollton. Whenever the said mayor and city council of Carrollton shall exercise the power herein delegated, and shall fail to agree with the owner or owners of the property taken or damaged, as to the amount of damages, the said mayor and city council of Carrollton shall choose one appraiser, and the owner of the land to be taken or damaged shall choose another appraiser, and the two thus chosen, if they fail to agree, shall select a third appraiser, and the three appraisers thus chosen, after being sworn to do justice between the parties, shall fix the damage to the owners of the property, caused by the opening or changing of such street, alley or square, and if the property owner, after five days' notice, shall fail to name an appraiser, the treasurer shall appoint one for him, and in every case where the two appraisers chosen shall, for the space of five days, fail to agree upon the third appraiser, the said treasurer shall appoint such appraiser; provided, the said appraisers, whether chosen by the parties or appointed by the treasurer, shall be citizens of said city. The award of the appraisers shall be in writing, and shall be filed within five days in the clerk's office of the Superior Court of Carroll county, and shall thereupon operate as a judgment, and execution may issue thereon. Either party may, within ten days after the filing of the award, enter an appeal to the Superior Court of Carroll county. All costs, including the fees of the appraisers, shall be paid by the city, and at any stage of the proceedings to condemn before or after the final award, the mayor and city council of Carrollton may, by paying to the property owner all expenses actually incurred by him, withdraw the proceedings and decline to take the property or to make the change in such street, alley, sidewalk or square.
Editor's note— Public improvements generally, Ga. Laws 1919, p. 880; street improvements, Ga. Laws 1925, p. 950.
Section XXVI(A). - Telecommunications.
The City shall have the power and authority to acquire, own, hold, lease, sell, resell, build, maintain, operate and contract with respect to a telecommunications systems network in order to provide telecommunications services and similar other services, to establish and charge rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished or made available by such undertaking; to interconnect its system or services or both with the systems or services of customers and other providers, to use telecommunications to respond to community needs, encourage the development of information-based organizations in the City of Carrollton, Georgia, to finance from time to time any such telecommunications systems through the issuance of revenue bonds as then permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia; and to make any contract with respect to and furnish the services of any said systems to consumers within or outside the corporate limits of the City.
(Ord. of 12-4-00, § 1)
Section XXVII. - Powers relative to grading and drainage; maintenance of sidewalks.
The Mayor and City Council of the City of Carrollton shall have full power and authority to establish and fix such a system of grading and drainage of the streets, alleys, lanes and squares of said city as they may deem proper, and shall have full power to compel owners and lessees of property to construct, repair, repave and keep in good condition the sidewalks pertaining to their property, but this provision shall not require property owners and lessees to repave the sidewalks pertaining to their property on account of the desire of the mayor and city council to change the grade while such sidewalks are still in good and serviceable condition. If any owner or lessee shall fail to comply with the requirements of the mayor and city council in this regard, the work shall be done under the direction of the mayor and city council and execution shall be issued for the cost and expense thereof against said property, or the owner or lessee thereof or either or all, and the same shall be collected as other executions issued by the clerk of said city.
(Ga. Laws 1923, p. 517, § 2)
Section XXVIII. - Jurisdiction over water and sewers; authority to require sewer connections.
The Mayor and City Council of the City of Carrollton shall have full power and authority to establish and maintain a system of water works and sanitary sewerage for said city, and they are hereby empowered with authority and it shall be their duty to designate what closets in said city shall be connected with the sewerage system and to require owners or lessees of property having such closets, open or otherwise, to connect the same with the sewerage system, and in case such owners or lessees of property, having such closets, shall fail to make and maintain such connections when ordered so to do by the mayor and city council, the same shall be done under the direction of the mayor and city council and at the expense of such owner or lessee, and execution shall issue against the property on which such closets are located or against the owner or lessee thereof, or against either or all and the same shall be collected as other executions issued by the clerk of said city. The mayor and city council of said city are hereby empowered to condemn or purchase such property either within or without said city, as may be necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this section and in case it shall become necessary to condemn any property under this section or for other public works, the proceedings shall be as in Section 26 of the within recited Act, and nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing the mayor and city council from condemning closets not connected with the sewerage system, as nuisances and abating them as such.
(Ga. Laws 1923, p. 517, § 5)
Editor's note— Waterworks and sewerage administration, Ga. Laws 1953, p. 2951.
Section XXIX. - Fire protection generally.
Be it further enacted, That the said mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have power to fix and establish fire limits, and from time to time to enlarge, restrict or change the same; to provide a fire department and a system of fire alarms, within which fire limits as established it shall not be lawful for any person to build or cause to be built other than fire-proof buildings, except by special permission of said mayor and city council of Carrollton, which must be by majority; and in case of offence against ordinances passed in pursuance of this Act, the said mayor and city council of Carrollton, after five days' notice given, shall cause the said not fire-proof buildings to be removed at the expense of the owners or builders thereof, to be collected by execution as other execution issued by the city. And the said mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have the right to determine what are and what are not fireproof buildings.
Section XXX. - Removal of fire hazards.
Be it further enacted, That the said mayor and city council of Carrollton, shall have power to remove any forge or smith shop when, in its opinion, it shall be necessary to insure safety against fire; they shall have the power to cause any stove or stove pipe, or other thing which shall endanger the city as to fire, to be removed or remedied at the expense of the owner as its prudence shall dictate.
Section XXXI. - Collection of money due city.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have power and authority to enforce by execution the collection of any amount due or to become due to it for taxes, water rents, license fees, and assessments of every kind; for fines and forfeitures for paving streets and sidewalks, lanes and alleys, for laying sewers and drains, for cleaning and repairing privies, and for any other debt on demand due to the city, such execution to be issued by the clerk against the person, corporation or firm, by whom any such debt may be due or may become due; which execution may be levied by the marshal on the property of the owner against whom such execution shall issue and the same sold as provided by Code of 1882, sections 3656(a), 3656(b), 3656(c) and 3656 (d) for municipal sales for taxes.
Editor's note— The provisions of the 1882 Code cited in Section XXXI above appear as O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359(a), (c) and (f). For act subsequent to charter in re executions and fi. fas., see Ga. Laws 1948, p. 1352.
Section XXXII. - Third party claims on property levied upon.
Be it further enacted, That when any fi. fa. shall issue as provided in the preceding section, and shall be levied, and the property levied on shall be claimed by a third person, such claimant may interpose his claim thereto, as now provided by law, for claims under tax fi. fa. for State and county tax, such claim to be returned to and heard in Carroll County Superior Court.
Editor's note— Executions and fi. fas., Ga. Laws 1943, p. 1352.
Section XXXIII. - Misconduct by mayor or councilman.
Be it further enacted, That should the mayor or any councilman while in office be guilty of any wilful neglect, malpractice or abuse of power, he shall be subject to be indicted before the Superior Court of Carroll county, and on conviction shall be fined in a sum not exceeding five hundred dollars, and shall moreover, be removed from office.
State Law reference— Abuse of governmental office, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-1 et seq.
Section XXXIV. - Law enforcement duties of marshal.
Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of the marshal of said city to prosecute all offenders against the law of this State for crimes committed within the limits of the city of Carrollton. It shall, moreover, be his duty to arrest, or cause to be arrested, all disorderly persons, all persons committing or attempting to commit any crime, and to commit them to the guard house or other place of confinement to await trial. It shall further be his duty to execute all processes and orders of the city, and to discharge any other duties imposed on him by the laws, ordinances or rules and regulations of said city.
Section XXXV. - Levy and sale on execution.
Be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of the marshal to levy all executions in favor of the city, and after advertising for thirty days, he shall sell the property levied on, before the court-house door, in Carrollton, on a regular sheriff's sale day and between the legal hours of sheriff's sales. If the property is divisible, he shall offer it in parcels, and shall sell, at public outcry to the highest bidder, and execute titles to the purchaser, and shall have the same power to place the purchaser in possession as sheriffs of this State have.
Editor's note— Executions and fi. fas., Ga. Laws 1943, p. 1352.
State Law reference— Executions generally, O.C.G.A. § 9-13-1 et seq.
Section XXXVI. - Clerk and treasurer; general duties; misconduct in office; suspension from office.
Be it further enacted, That the treasurer shall be the custodian of the funds of the city, and shall be the keeper of the records thereof. It shall be the duty of the clerk to be clerk of the mayor's court; shall issue all processes and shall discharge all duties that shall be required of him by the laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and resolutions of the mayor and city council of Carrollton. For any willful neglect of duty, or any abuse of the powers conferred on him, not amounting to a felony, the clerk or treasurer shall be subjected to be indicted before the Superior Court of Carroll county, and, on conviction, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars, and may also be removed from office, in the discretion of the court. Pending any criminal charge against him, the clerk or treasurer may, in the discretion of the mayor and city council of Carrollton, be suspended from office, and in case of his suspension, the mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have power to appoint some person to discharge the duties of his office.
Editor's note— Supervisor to act as clerk, Ga. Laws 1961, p. 2945, § 1(i); authority to replace mayor's court with recorder, Ga. Laws 1953, p. 2323.
State Law reference— Abuse of governmental office, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-1 et seq.
Section XXXVII. - Appointment, duties, quorum of board of health; abatement.
Be it further enacted, That the said mayor and city council of Carrollton shall, before the month of April in each year, appoint three fit and proper persons, who shall constitute the Board of Health of said city. It shall be the duty of said Board of Health, two of whom shall constitute a quorum, to meet monthly, or as often as may be necessary; to visit every part of the city, and to report to the mayor and city council of Carrollton all nuisances which are likely to endanger the health of the city, and the said mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have power, upon the report of said Board of Health, to cause any such nuisances to be abated and their recommendations carried out in a summary manner at the expense of the party whose act or negligence cause such nuisance, or of the owner of the premises, or both, as the mayor and city council of Carrollton may elect; and for the amount so expended the clerk shall forthwith issue an execution against the owner of the property on which the nuisance is located, or against the party whose act or negligence caused such nuisance, or against both, as said mayor and city council of Carrollton may elect, and such execution may be collected by levy and sale, as other executions issued by the clerk. All vacancies that may occur in said Board of Health may be filled by said mayor and city council of Carrollton, as soon thereafter as practicable.
Section XXXVIIa. - Consideration of recommendations of board of health, officers of board.
It shall be the duty of the Mayor and City Council of the City of Carrollton to take definite action on all recommendations of the board of health at the next regular meeting after the filing of the same, and in case of emergency the mayor and city council shall convene at once and proceed to consider without delay the recommendations of the board of health. It shall further be the duty of the mayor and city council in appointing the board of health to designate one member as chairman and one as secretary of the said board in the order of their appointment.
(Ga. Laws 1923, p. 517, § 4)
Section XXXVIII. - Authority to protect against disease.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have power and authority to establish such quarantine regulations against persons who have been exposed to smallpox or yellow fever as it may deem proper, and establish a smallpox hospital or pest house, and, in case of smallpox or yellow fever within said city, to cause to be removed to said hospital or pest house all persons afflicted with such disease, except such persons as shall, at their own expense, provide suitable and sufficient guards to successfully quarantine the premises where said case or cases of smallpox or yellow fever may be located.
Section XXXIX. - Miscellaneous powers of city.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have power either to lay off; vacate, close, open, alter, curb, pave and keep in good order, and repair roads, streets, alleys, sidewalks, cross-walks, drains and gutters for the use of the public or any of the citizens thereof, and to improve and light the same and have them kept free from obstruction, on or above them; to regulate the width of sidewalks on the streets, and to order the sidewalks, foot-ways, cross-walks, drains and gutters to be curbed and paved and put in good order, free and clean, by the owner and occupants thereof, or of the real property next adjacent thereto; to establish and regulate market; to prescribe the time of holding the same; to prevent injury and annoyance to the public or individuals from anything dangerous, offensive or unwholesome; to prevent hogs, cattle, horses, sheep, dogs and other animals and fowls of all kinds from going at large in said city; to protect places of divine worship in and about the premises where held; to abate, or cause to be abated, anything which, in the opinion of the majority of the whole council of said city, shall be a nuisance; to regulate the keeping of gunpowder and other combustibles; to provide, in or near said city, places for the burial of the dead and to regulate the interment therein; to provide for the drainage of lots by proper drains and ditches; to make regulations for guarding against danger or damage by fire; to protect the property and persons of the citizens of said city, and to preserve peace and good order therein, and for this purpose to appoint, when necessary, a police force to assist the marshal in the discharge of his duties; to prescribe the powers and define the duties of the officers appointed by the mayor and city council of Carrollton; to fix their term of service and compensation; to require and take from them bonds when deemed necessary, payable to the mayor and city council of Carrollton, with such securities and in such penalty as said mayor and city council of Carrollton may see fit, conditioned for the faithful discharge of their duties; to erect or authorize or prohibit the erection of gas works or electric light works in said city; to prevent injury to or pollution of the same, or to the water or healthfulness of said city; to regulate and provide for the weighing of hay and coal and other articles sold or for sale in said city, and to provide a revenue for said city and to appropriate the same to its expenses; to organize a changing or workgang to work upon the streets of said city and for sanitary purposes; shall have power to drain and keep clear of all obstructions Tallapoosa river and its tributaries within the city, and for the distance of one mile from the corporate limits in any direction, and, to this end, may pass necessary rules, regulations and ordinances, and to adopt rules and regulations for the government of its own body.
Editor's note— Public improvements generally, Ga. Laws, 1919, p. 880; street improvements, Ga. Laws 1925, p. 950.
Section XL. - Further broad powers.
Be it further enacted, That the mayor and city council of Carrollton shall have power and authority to establish police rules and regulations; to pass all laws and ordinances, not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, which tend to promote the safety, health, good order, morality and general welfare of the inhabitants of said city.
Section XLI. - Referendum on charter.
Be it further enacted, That before this new Act of incorporation shall go into effect it shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the Town of Carrollton, to vote upon, for or against ratification of same, it being the duty of the ordinary of Carroll county, to call election for such purpose, to be held at the courthouse in Carrollton, to be presided over by three freeholders, selected from the citizens of Carrollton, to be appointed and sworn by said ordinary. At this election all voters qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly, resident within said town six months, shall be qualified voters. Such election shall, by the ordinary, be provided to take place not earlier than forty days and not later than one hundred days after the approval of this Act. Notice of said election shall be published in the Carrollton papers twice before said election. In said election those who favor said new Act of incorporation shall have written on ballots "for new charter," and those opposed to said new Act of incorporation shall have written upon their ballots "against new charter." The polls for said election shall be opened from 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. If the majority of lawful votes cast at said election shall be against new charter, then the said new charter shall be of no effect. But if the majority of lawful votes be for new charter, then the ordinary of Carroll county, Georgia, shall make proclamation of the result. Thereupon the said new charter shall go into effect. The managers of said election shall count the ballots cast thereat, and they or a majority of them shall forthwith certify the result to the ordinary, and shall deliver to him the ballots and a list of the voters, and the ballots shall be numbered and a list of the voters and tally sheets shall be kept as in other elections.
Editor's note— This charter was approved at referendum as required by Section XLI above.
Section XLII. - Acts repealed.
Be it further enacted, That all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed, except an Act approved ________, 189___, relating to an additional 25 percent of ad valorem tax for said Carrollton, Georgia, approved.
Approved September 9, 1891.
Editor's note— The blanks appearing in Section XLII above were not filled in the printed Georgia Laws and therefore have been left blank.
FINANCES. - GEORGIA LAWS 1929, PAGE 907

Section 1. - Charter declared amended.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority aforesaid, that immediately from and after the passage of this Act the charter of the City of Carrollton is hereby amended as follows:
(1)
The mayor. Be it enacted that the mayor of the City of Carrollton must approve all contracts and purchases to be made for and on behalf of the City of Carrollton, when and after same is authorized by the mayor and city council in a meeting assembled; and the distribution of any and all funds must be by voucher, countersigned by the mayor of the City of Carrollton, or in his absence, or his disqualification for any cause, by the mayor pro tem.
(2)
There shall be a clerk of the mayor and city council of Carrollton, who must be elected annually by the mayor and city council of Carrollton at the first meeting night after the general election held in October each year. The clerk shall have attained the age of twenty-one (21) years before he shall be qualified to act as clerk, and to take and subscribe to an oath, and shall give a bond in some surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia, in the sum of fifteen thousand ($15,000.00) dollars, payable to the mayor and city council, conditioned to faithfully, fairly, and fully discharge all duties as clerk, and to account for all funds coming into his hands as clerk.
Editor's note— Ga. Laws 1961, p. 2945 provides that the city supervisor will act as city clerk.
(2a)
The further additional duties of the clerk shall be as follows: To keep a complete, itemized, and accurate statement of all funds received, and disbursed; to keep a complete itemized, daily cash-book, showing the receipts, the source thereof, and daily disbursements, together with each daily balance, and he must deposit all funds belonging to the City of Carrollton daily in such bank, or banks as may be designated by the mayor and city council of Carrollton; and he is hereby authorized to issue executions for the nonpayment of taxes or license that may be due the City of Carrollton. The clerk must keep a permanent record of all taxes, or special license(s) paid into the City of Carrollton, and must collect all taxes and license at the time so fixed by law, or as soon thereafter as possible. He shall keep his office open from eight o'clock a. m. until five o'clock p.m., and any and all records of the City of Carrollton shall be open for inspection to any resident or taxpayer in said City of Carrollton during said hours; and it shall be the duty of the clerk to furnish any information to any taxpayer of the City of Carrollton that he may desire relative to the affairs of said City of Carrollton during office hours. The clerk must make up and submit to the mayor and city council of Carrollton at its first meeting in each month a complete, itemized, detailed statement of the income and disbursements of the City of Carrollton, and when approved must be spread upon the minutes of the City of Carrollton. A summary of the financial condition of the City of Carrollton must be published quarterly, and more often if ordered by the mayor and city council of Carrollton. The clerk must devote his entire time to the affairs of the City of Carrollton, and shall be paid such salary as may be fixed by the Mayor and City Council of Carrollton.
(Ga. Laws 1953, p. 2945, § 1)
(3)-(5).
Repealed by Ga. Laws 1931, p. 707, § 1.
Editor's note— The repealed subsections related to the collector of taxes and the recorder's coup
Section 2. - School tax.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that the last sentence in section two of the Act of the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, approved August 7, 1912 (amending the Act of November 26, 1886, establishing a system of public schools for Carrollton, Georgia), which amendatory act is headed "Carrollton, City of, Public School system amended," being No. 398 of the printed acts of 1912, pages 712 and 713, beginning with the word "provided" and ending with the words "legal claims," be and the same is hereby repealed, and that the following words are hereby enacted and inserted in lieu thereof: "Provided that the rate of taxation under this Act shall not exceed sixty-five (65) one hundredths of one percentum per annum; and that when collected the collecting officer of said mayor and city council shall pay same over to the treasurer of the board of education of Carrollton, Georgia, which shall then constitute a fund to be expended by said board in the payment of all legitimate expenses in running said schools and other legal claims."
Editor's note— Acts relating to the city school system have not been included in this compilation at the direction of the city. For subsequent amendment to the city charter pertaining to the limitation on school taxes, see Ga. Laws 1945, p. 372, § 7.
MAYOR'S COURT. - GEORGIA LAWS 1931, PAGE 707
Editor's note— Ga. Laws 1931, p. 707, relating to the mayor's court has been rendered obsolete by the enactment of Ga. Laws 1953, p. 2323, authorizing a recorder's court, and action of the council availing itself of that authority. Note, however, that the 1953 Act provides that the recorder will have the powers and jurisdiction of the mayor. Under Section 3 of the 1931 Act, the mayor has power to punish for violations of the law and ordinances of the city by labor upon the streets or other public works for a period not exceeding sixty days or by fine not to exceed one hundred dollars, either or both.
EXECUTIONS AND FI. FAS. - GEORGIA LAWS 1943, PAGE 1352

Section 1. - Authority to issue.
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid that the Mayor and Council of the City of Carrollton, Georgia, shall have and are hereby empowered with full authority and power by and through its Mayor and City Clerk, when so authorized by the said Mayor and Council of the City of Carrollton, Georgia, to issue executions or fi fas for any licenses, fees, fines or forfeitures, paving assessment, taxes, or other indebtedness due said City of Carrollton, Georgia.
Section 2. - Affidavits of illegality and claims against the property.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that should any fi fa or execution be issued by the City of Carrollton, Georgia, as herein provided, or as provided by the Charter of the City of Carrollton, for licenses, fees, taxes, fines or forfeitures, paving assessments, or other indebtedness, and/or in order to provide fully an adequate remedy at law for any person, firm or corporation that may desire to contest said execution or fi fa, said person, firm or corporation is hereby empowered to file an affidavit of illegality to said execution so issued by the authority of the City of Carrollton, which may be done under the same rules of law as now prevail in the Superior Courts of this State, and under the same rules that prevail in the State Courts governing the filing of affidavit of illegality. Any property levied upon, claimed by a person not a party to said execution is hereby permitted to interpose a claim to said property under the same rules of law applicable to the filing of claims now in force in this State. The rules, restrictions and regulations governing the filing of affidavit of illegality and claims as now prevail in the Superior Courts of this State shall govern all such cases so filed. Any or all such claims, or affidavit of illegality shall be returnable to the next term of the Superior Court of Carroll County, Georgia, then and there to be heard, tried and determined as the first term thereof.
Section 3. - Clerk ex officio marshal.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the City Clerk of Carrollton is hereby made marshal ex-officio of the City of Carrollton for the purpose of levying any fi fa or execution ordered issued by the Mayor and Council of the City of Carrollton, Georgia, on any property of any resident of said City of Carrollton and he is vested for the aforesaid purpose with all the powers of the marshal of the City of Carrollton, Georgia.
ELECTIONS; PAYMENT OF TAXES. - GEORGIA LAWS 1945, PAGE 872

Section 1. - Charter amended.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority aforesaid that, from and after the passage of this Act, the charter granting corporate authority to the City of Carrollton, Georgia heretofore shall be amended, revised and changed as hereinafter provided and set forth.
Section 2. - Election of mayor and councilmen at large.
That the Mayor and four councilmen shall be elected by the duly registered and qualified voters of said City from the qualified residents of said City at large without regard to place of residence, or with reference to any ward in said City. The purpose being that the Mayor and each Councilman shall be bona fide residents of said City and qualified for the office regardless of whatever part of said City each may so reside, and to restore the election of the Mayor and City Councilmen as provided in the Acts of 1891, granting charter to said City. That the candidate receiving the highest number of votes polled in any primary, nomination or election on the date as now prescribed or herein prescribed by law to be held shall be declared the nominee, or elected to the respective offices.
Section 3. - When elections held; terms.
That the next general election shall be held on the first Saturday in October, 1945, and biennially thereafter; the Mayor and each councilman in said next regular primary who are elected shall be elected for a full term of two years.
Editor's note— Terms of office have been staggered and extended to four years by Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2794.
State Law reference— Terms of office, O.C.G.A. §§ 21-2-541.1, 21.2-541.2.
Section 4. - Qualifications.
Be it further enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is-hereby enacted by the authority aforesaid that no person shall be eligible to the office of the Mayor of the City of Carrollton unless he shall have attained the age of thirty (30) years and is a citizen of the United States, a freeholder and shall have resided in said City of Carrollton two (2) years continuously immediately preceding his nomination or election.
No person shall be eligible to the office of councilman unless he shall have attained the age of twenty-five (25) years, a freeholder, and a citizen of the United States and shall have resided within said City of Carrollton twelve (12) months continuously immediately preceding his election or nomination.
Each of the aforesaid officers shall have paid all of his taxes due and demanded of him by the State and County, and the City of Carrollton, except for the year in which said election shall be held, and who shall have paid all legal assessments, license fees and business taxes required of him or her for either of the aforesaid offices.
Section 5. - Partial prepayment of taxes; tax delinquencies.
Be it further enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority aforesaid, that from and after the passage of this Act any taxpayer, person, firm or corporation having due, or becoming due, taxes payable to the City of Carrollton in any year may pay said taxes quarterly, or semi-annually, or any part of his annual taxes, using the amount of his taxes as assessed for the prior year as a basis. When any taxpayer so elects to make payment prior to due date of his city taxes due the City of Carrollton the Clerk of the City of Carrollton is hereby authorized to issue a written receipt to said taxpayer, setting forth the amount so paid and credit same on the tax account of said taxpayer for the year in which said payment shall be made; on said due date on which all taxes become annually due said City of Carrollton, the Clerk shall accept said receipt, or receipts, from the taxpayer upon presentation and return of said receipt heretofore issued to said taxpayer and credit said amount on said annual tax receipt, or deliver said annual tax receipt to said taxpayer, marking same paid in the event full payment had been made. The purpose being to enable the City of Carrollton to accept prepayment of taxes due, or to become due in order to permit the City of Carrollton to operate as nearly as possible on cash basis but it is in no wise intended to extend, or change the due date of taxes due said City which are due and payable annually on the 20th day of December of each year. Further, the granting of partial payment on the annual taxes of any such taxpayer is in no wise to restrict the Mayor and City Councilmen as to levy of assessment made for any year, it is only to enable the taxpayer to make prepayment and have an accounting on the payment of the final assessment when the rate has been duly fixed and the tax receipts properly issued, at which time the taxpayer shall have the right to have credited on his annual tax receipt such prepayment if any has been made. Be it further enacted that all taxes shall be declared to be due the said City on the 20th day of December of each year and shall bear interest at the rate of seven per centum (7%) per annum from said date if not paid. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to issue tax fi. fas. on all taxes not paid on said date and on the first day of January of the succeeding year to deliver all said tax fi. fas. which have been issued for taxes so due said City to the Marshal of said City for collection, including the cost of fi. fas. fifty cents (50¢) each. All of said tax fi. fas. so issued and delivered to the Marshal shall be delivered under written receipt from the Marshal, setting forth the name of each taxpayer, and the amount of taxes due thereon, and when said tax fi. fas. are so delivered the receipt for said fi. fas. so delivered shall be signed by the said Marshal and kept on file in the Clerk's office and there remain. When each of said tax fi. fas. are paid and delivered it shall be the duty of the Marshal to make a return to the Clerk's office of the amount so collected, at which time the Clerk should credit, mark, or cancel said name from the list of unpaid tax fi. fas. held in his office. Be if further enacted, that the Marshal, or any other officer to whom said tax fi. fas. have been delivered shall within seventy days thereof make a written report to the Mayor and City Councilmen on each of said fi. fas. in his hands, showing all collections on any and all fi. fas. that shall be turned over to him and he shall make weekly written reports thereafter to the Clerk of the Mayor and City Council of Carrollton which shall be kept on file in the Clerk's office.
Section 6. - Registration of voters.
Be it further enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority aforesaid that, from and after the passage of this Act, the Clerk of the Mayor and City Council of Carrollton shall open and keep a book for the registration of voters as a permanent record in his office as now required by law; yet, the registration list shall be closed prior to any general or special election or primary sixty days prior thereto and no person shall be permitted to vote on any such general, special or regular election or primary unless his or her name appears upon said registration record, having been properly registered thereon in sufficient time as herein provided.
State Law reference— Registration of voters, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-210 et seq.
Section 7. - School taxes.
Be it further enacted, that the Board of Education of the City of Carrollton shall determine as early as practical, after the beginning of each scholastic year, the amount of money that will be necessary to defray the expenses of running said public schools for the ensuing scholastic year, and shall lay the same before the Mayor and City Council of Carrollton.
The mayor and city council of the City of Carrollton shall in its discretion proceed to levy and collect such amount as it may deem necessary for school purposes by levy and collection of same as other taxes are collected, and provide(d) that the rate of taxation under this Act shall not exceed one and eighty one-hundredths (1.80) percentum per annum and the mayor and city council of Carrollton, through its collection officer, shall be required to pay the same over to the treasurer of the board of education of said city from time to time as necessary for the operation of said schools which shall then constitute a fund to be expended by said board in payment of all legitimate expenses in running, operation and maintenance of said school.
(Ga. Laws 1945, p. 972, § 7; Ga. Laws 1951, p. 2618, § 1; Ga. Laws 1963, p. 2925, § 1; Ga. Laws 1967, p. 2736, § 1)
AIRPORT. - GEORGIA LAWS 1951, PAGE 2718
Editor's note— Ga. Laws 1968, p. 2769, provides for the West Georgia Airport Authority. Said act has not been set out in this compilation at the direction of the city.

Section 1. - Powers.
The Act, approved September 9, 1891, as amended, (Ga. Laws 1891, pp. 474, 478), entitled "An Act to amend, revise and consolidate the several Acts granting corporate authority to the City of Carrollton; to confer additional power upon the mayor and city council of Carrollton; to extend the corporate limits of said city, and for other purposes", with the Acts amendatory thereof, be and the same is hereby amended by adding thereto the following:
A.
The mayor and city council of Carrollton, shall after the passage of this Act be authorized to purchase property outside the city limits for the purpose of constructing and maintaining an airport; to accept, receive and disbursed grants of funds or other things of value from the United States, or other persons, firms or corporations, in aid of such project; to operate such airport for the benefit and use of the public and to pass such ordinances necessary to carry out this Act.
CORPORATE LIMITS. - GEORGIA LAWS 1952, PAGE 2714
Note— See note following Ga. Laws 1893, p. 474, § 1.
RECORDER. - GEORGIA LAWS 1953, PAGE 2323

Section 1. - Authorized.
The mayor and council shall have the right, within their discretion to elect a recorder in the same way they now elect other officers of said city. The recorder when so elected and qualified shall preside over the trial of cases in the police court, under the restrictions, regulations, and power so imposed upon the mayor, or a member of the city council in like capacity. He shall be the presiding officer in said court, except when disqualified or absent, when the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem., or member of the City Council of Carrollton, may preside with full powers as the city recorder. The mayor and city council shall fix the salary of the city recorder, and shall have the power to define his duties under ordinance not in conflict with this Act. Said city recorder when elected and qualified shall have all the power and authority conferred upon him, as city recorder, as now exercised by the Mayor, or Mayor and Council of Carrollton under and by virtue of said charter of the City of Carrollton and the several amendments thereto.
Editor's note— Judicial powers and authority of mayor, Ga. Laws 1931, p. 707.
State Law reference— Appointment of municipal judge, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2.
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE ADMINISTRATION. - GEORGIA LAWS 1953, PAGE 2951

Section 1. - Water and light commission act repealed.
That the Act approved August 9, 1904, creating a Water and Light Commission for the City of Carrollton (Ga. Laws 1904, p. 401), and all amendatory Acts thereto are hereby repealed.
Editor's note— The act of 1904 repealed above is not set out in this compilation.
Section 2. - Operation by city.
Be it further enacted that from and after the effective date of this Act the Mayor and City Council of Carrollton by and through such engineers, servants and employees as may in their discretion be necessary shall be chargeable with the full duties to operate, maintain, extend, enlarge and repair the water works system and the sewerage system of the City of Carrollton so as to provide the City of Carrollton with a complete and adequate water works system and sewerage system.
Section 3. - Finances; use of proceeds.
Be it further enacted that all funds received from the water and sewerage systems shall be kept separate from the other funds of the City of Carrollton and made available to the Mayor and City Council of the City of Carrollton: First, to maintain, operate and repair the said systems; second, to meet payment of any and all legal revenue anticipation certificates, outstanding as of the effective date of this Act or to be legally incurred in the future, or other valid indebtedness of the said water and sewerage systems; third, to such extensions, improvements, or enlargement of the said systems as may in the discretion of the said mayor and city council be necessary; fourth, any surplus to be turned over to the general fund of the Mayor and City Council of Carrollton, to be used to meet general obligations of the City of Carrollton: Provided that no funds shall be paid into the general fund of the City of Carrollton under this last provision unless the same shall be unanimously approved by the mayor and city council at a regular meeting of the said mayor and city council.
Section 4. - Effective date.
Be it further enacted that this Act shall become effective on October 5, 1953.
CITY SUPERVISOR. - GEORGIA LAWS 1961, PAGE 2945

Section 1. - Authorized; powers, duties; removal; compensation.
The Act entitled "An Act to amend an Act establishing a new charter for the City of Carrollton, Georgia", approved September 9, 1891, (Ga. L. 1891, pp. 474, 478) is hereby amended by adding thereto the following:
Be it enacted that from and after the effective date of this Act, the mayor and city council of Carrollton are authorized to create the office of "City Supervisor" who shall be the administrative head of the municipal government and who shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all departments. He shall be appointed without regard to his residence, political beliefs or affiliations. During the absence or disability of the city supervisor, the mayor and city council may designate some qualified person to execute the functions of the office. The powers and duties of the city supervisor shall be:
(a)
To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced.
(b)
To appoint and remove all subordinate officers and employees in all departments, all appointments to be upon merit and fitness alone.
(c)
To exercise control over all departments and divisions created therein, or which may be hereafter created by the mayor and council.
(d)
To attend all meetings of the mayor and council, with the right to take part in all discussions, but having no vote.
(e)
To recommend to the mayor and council for adoption such measures as he may deem necessary and expedient.
(f)
To prepare and submit to the mayor and council an annual budget and act as treasurer of the city.
(g)
To keep the mayor and council fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city.
(h)
To supervise the performance of all contracts made by any person, firm or corporation for work done for the city, and to make all purchases of material and supplies for the city, and to see that the same are received as contracted for.
(i)
To act as and perform the duties of clerk of the City of Carrollton.
(j)
To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein, or required of him by ordinances or resolution of the mayor and council.
The city supervisor may be removed from his office or employment by a majority vote of the mayor and city council and his compensation shall be fixed by the mayor and city council.
TERMS OF OFFICERS. - GEORGIA LAWS 1974, PAGE 2794
Editor's note— Ga. Laws 1974, p. 2794 was subject to and approved at a referendum held June 11, 1974.

Section 1. - Councilmen to run for posts.
The Act entitled "An Act to Amend An Act Establishing A New Charter for the City of Carrollton, Georgia" approved September 9, 1891 (Ga. Laws 1891, pp. 474, 478) is hereby amended as follows:
Beginning with the regular election for city officials of the City of Carrollton in 1975, all candidates for the office of Councilmen shall designate in their notice of candidacy whether or not they are offering for either Post 1, Post 2, Post 3 or Post 4 and the candidate for each separate post receiving the highest number of votes in said general election and all subsequent elections shall be elected as a councilman of the City of Carrollton.
Section 2. - Staggering of terms of officers elected in 1975.
The two (2) councilmen receiving the smallest number of votes of the four (4) councilmen thus elected in the 1975 regular city election shall serve for a period of two (2) years or until their successor is elected and qualified. The mayor and two (2) councilmen elected in said 1975 regular election receiving the highest number of votes from those elected shall serve for a period of four (4) years or until such time as their successor is elected and qualified.
Section 3. - Four year terms declared after 1975.
Following the regular city election in 1975, and all subsequent elections for mayor and councilmen of the City of Carrollton, those elected shall serve for a period of four (4) years or until such time as their successor is elected and qualified.
State Law reference— Terms of office, O.C.G.A. §§ 21-2-541.1, 21.2-541.2.
CORPORATE LIMITS EXTENDED. - GEORGIA LAWS 1974, PAGE 2795
Note— See note following Ga. Laws 1893, p. 474, § 1.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
EXPAND
Year Page Section Disposition
1891 474 I-XLII I-XLII
1895 163 1 XIX
1904 400 XIX(note)
1915 529 1 XIX
1917 554 1 XIX
1919 880 XXVI(note)
XXXIX(note)
1923 517 1 III
2 XXVII
3 VI
4 XXXVIIa
5 XXVIII
11 IX
522 12 X
1925 950 XXVI(note)
XXXIX(note)
1929 907 XIX(note)
1931 705 1 III
1937 1036 1 III
1943 1852 XXXI(note)
XXXII(note)
XXXV(note)
1945 872 4 XI(note)
5 XIX(note)
6 IX(note)
X(note)
7 XIX(note)
1950 2889 1 XIX
1951 2417 1 XIX
8211 XXII-XXV
1953 2823 XIV(note)
XV(note)
XXXVI(note)
1957 2276 1 VI
1961 2945 XIII(note)
1(i) XXXVI(note)
1964 2515 1 XII
1967 2738 1 XIX
1971 2945 1(b) XVIII(note)
1977 3946 1 XV
1978 3839 1 VIA
1981 4172 1 XIX
1985 3542 1 III, IV
  CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - ORDINANCES
EXPAND
Date Section  Section
this Code
12- 4-00 1       Added XXVI(A)
