Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, City of Carrollton, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1975, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council.
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Carrollton, Georgia.
Code. The word "Code" means the Code of Ordinances, City of Carrollton, Georgia, as cited in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Carroll, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be implied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provisions imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Joint authority. Whenever a joint authority is given to three or more persons or officers, it shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of them.
Mayor and council; council; city council. The words "mayor and council," "council" or "city council" shall mean the Mayor and Council of the City of Carrollton.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Number. The singular number shall include the plural and the plural number shall include the singular.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Officials or officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments or other municipal agents by title only, such reference shall be read as though followed by the words "of the City of Carrollton, Georgia."
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner" applied to real estate shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint interest or other fee interest in the whole or a part of such real estate.
Person. The word "person" shall include firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, as well as natural persons.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list compiled and published by the city which contains rates for utility and other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the mayor and city council, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk, where it is available for reference and review during normal business hours.
Signature or subscription. "Signature" or "subscription" shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
Shall, may. "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to include streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public ways in the city and shall include all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
Tense. Words in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" shall mean seven days.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1975, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or to be any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section, and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code, are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1975, § 1-3)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect; provided that upon the repeal or invalidity of any ordinance levying taxes or establishing any fee or charge, the next earlier ordinance levying taxes or establishing the same fee or charge shall continue in effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding for violation of such ordinance pending at the time of the repeal.
(Code 1975, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions considered continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-6. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(3)
Any administrative ordinance of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salaries or providing for the retirement of officers or employees of the city.
(5)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the city council to any person; and any regulations relating to franchises.
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for the same.
(11)
Any ordinance annexing property in the city.
(12)
Any ordinance regulating zoning in the city.
(13)
Any ordinance regulating the erection, alteration, repair, demolition, moving or removal of buildings or other structures.
(14)
Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not inconsistent with this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance fixing utility rates and charges.
(16)
Any ordinance creating and establishing the West Georgia Regional Library.
(17)
Any ordinance creating and establishing the West Georgia Regional Airport Authority.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1975, § 1-5)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code of Ordinances which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code of Ordinances, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code of Ordinances and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Carrollton, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: ___________." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of Carrollton, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which said section reads as follows: ___________." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, with reference to the subject matter, as the case may be.
(Code 1975, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code.
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City of Carrollton to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1975, § 1-7)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty.
(a)
In addition to any other penalties allowable under state law, any person violating or failing to comply with any provision of this Code or committing any act or omission to act declared to be an offense or unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, shall be punished by fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(b)
There shall be imposed for every fine levied by the municipal court, for violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or ordinance of the city, a penalty equal to ten percent of the fine levied including costs.
(c)
At the time of the posting of any bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or ordinance of the city an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted and if the bail or bond is forfeited the ten percent shall be paid over as provided in subsection (d) of this section.
(d)
All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting monies arising from fines and forfeited bonds and paid over to the mayor and council of this city by the tenth of each month following the month in which the fines are collected. All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in a special fund designated as the county jail fund.
(e)
All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be expended as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
State Law reference— Additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; display of drivers license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
Sec. 1-12. - Liability for violations by corporations, other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
