Chapter 11 - POLICE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority to establish a police agency, § 1.13(24).
Cross reference— Administration, Ch. 2.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to provide police protection, Ga. Const. 1983, Art. IX, Sec. II, Para. III(a)(1); law enforcement officers and agencies, O.C.G.A. Title 35.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 11-1. - Disposition of seized and forfeited money or property.
(a)
All property and/or money and currency received by the city as a result of seizure or forfeiture under either federal or state law shall be:
(1)
Retained by the city for official use by the city police department; or
(2)
If said property is not required to be destroyed by law and is not harmful to the public, that said property be sold and the proceeds of sale be used as allowed by Georgia or federal laws.
(b)
Should the city receive money or currency which is forfeited or which is realized from the sale or disposition of forfeited property in accordance with state and federal law, the city shall expend or use such funds for the police department to defray the cost of investigations, to purchase equipment, to provide matching funds to obtain federal grants or for such other law enforcement purposes as the mayor and council of the city shall deem appropriate except that no such money and currency shall be used for rewards or to pay all or part of the salaries of the law enforcement personnel of the city.
(c)
A separate savings account and a separate checking account shall be established by the city business office for the purpose of depositing funds subject to the provisions of this section. The chief of police or assistant chief of police shall be authorized to make withdrawals from the savings account or to sign checks drawn on said checking account. All such withdrawals and/or checks shall also require the signature of the mayor or mayor pro tem. Should the city police department receive money and currency which is covered by the provisions of this section, said money shall be promptly deposited into said savings account and transferred into said checking account as needed to carry forth the provisions of this section. The city auditor shall submit an annual report to the mayor and council of the city on or before the first day of May itemizing the money, currency and proceeds of forfeited property during the previous twelve (12) months and the purposes for which said property or money was used.
(d)
All property and/or money and currency received by the city as a result of seizure and forfeiture under the federal and state laws shall be used in accordance with all state and federal laws applying to said property. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the use of said property and/or money and currency as allowed by law, and should any provision of this section be found to be in conflict with any state or federal law governing use of said property and/or money and currency, said state or federal laws shall be deemed superior and the city shall comply with said state or federal law.
(Ord. of 11-26-90; Ord. of 3-23-92; Ord. of 6-14-93)
Secs. 11-2—11-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RESERVE POLICE FORCE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Special police, O.C.G.A. § 35-9-1.

Sec. 11-26. - Created, scope, oath.
There is hereby established in the city a reserve police force, which force shall be operated under the supervision and direction of the chief of police. The members of the reserve police force shall take and subscribe the same oath of office as regular police officers of the city. The members of the reserve police force shall be subject to call to service by the chief of police at such times as their assistance shall be required by the chief of police.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(4), § 1; Ord. of 8-12-91)
Sec. 11-27. - Approval, certification of members.
No person shall be permitted to serve upon the reserve police force until such time as such person's service in such capacity has been approved by the chief of police and such person's name is certified as a member of the reserve police force.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(4), § 2; Ord. of 8-12-91)
Sec. 11-28. - Training.
The chief of police shall establish such training programs as deemed necessary in order to properly train the members of the reserve police force.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(4), § 3(a); Ord. of 8-12-91)
Sec. 11-29. - Compensation, expenses.
Member's of the reserve police force shall receive no compensation, except that when a member has completed the required program of training, and such fact is certified to by the chief of police a member shall be authorized to receive from the city any reimbursement of any cost incurred in the purchase of a uniform, equal to the cost of uniforms for the regular police force of the city.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(4), § 3; Ord. of 8-12-91)
Sec. 11-30. - Authority.
Whenever the reserve police force, or any member thereof, has been called to official duty by the chief of police, such reserve police force and any member thereof shall be authorized to exercise all powers of law enforcement which may be exercised by regular police officers of the city, and such law enforcement powers shall continue in any instance until such time as the reserve police force, or any member thereof, has been relieved from assignment to which called.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(4), § 4; Ord. of 8-12-91)
Sec. 11-31. - Workers' compensation.
Members of the reserve police force shall be covered by workers' compensation coverage the same as is provided for employees of the city.
(Ord. of 7-10-06)
Secs. 11-32—11-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Disposition of unclaimed property, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-90.

Sec. 11-51. - Authority to sell at auction.
The police department shall have the authority to sell, at public outcry, to the highest bidder for cash, any and all articles of personal property that have come into its possession and which, after diligent and faithful effort has been made to ascertain the true owner thereof without success, remain unclaimed for a period of six (6) months.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 1)
Sec. 11-52. - Records required.
It shall be the responsibility of the police department to maintain a complete record in a log book of all property coming into its possession. This property shall be identified in detail by its usual name, make, model, manufacturer's name and serial number, if any, and if no identifying name or numbers, shall be fully described in this log as to its physical properties and appearance. This record shall also show the dates the property came into the possession of the police department and the final disposition thereof.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 2)
Sec. 11-53. - Attempt to find owner.
It shall be the responsibility of the police department to make a faithful and diligent effort to find the true owner of any article of personal property coming into its possession, and if such owner can be found, to return the property to that owner. In the event that the rightful owner of the article cannot be found, and the article remains unclaimed for a period of not less than six (6) months next preceding the date of sale as hereinafter provided, the police department may proceed to sell the article as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 3)
Sec. 11-54. - When sales to be held.
The police department may hold a public sale of all unclaimed articles of personal property held by it for at least six (6) months immediately preceding the date of sale on any day or days as determined by the chief of police provided the advertisement of sale as set forth in section 11-55 has been published.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 4; Ord. of 4-12-04)
Sec. 11-55. - Advertisement of sales.
The sale of unclaimed property under this article shall be advertised in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipal boundaries of the city, at least fifteen (15) days and not more than sixty (60) days preceding the next sale date. The advertisement shall be of sufficient size and type to be easily read and understood by the general public and shall state the specific time and place of the sale; that the sale shall be open to the public; and that all sales are to the highest bidder for cash. This advertisement shall state that only unclaimed property which has come into the possession of the police department, and which has been in possession of the police department for a period in excess of six (6) months, shall be offered for sale; and that the police department makes no warranties of any kind, either expressed or implied, as to the merchantability, title, quality or performance of the property, and that all articles are sold in an "as is" condition.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 6; Ord. of 4-12-04)
Sec. 11-56. - Conduct of sale.
The police department may sell property pursuant to this article either by sealed bid or by auction to be conducted at a set time or place or to be conducted through use of an on-line auction process. If the sale is conducted through an on-line bidding process, the advertisement for the sale shall state how persons may access the on-line auction process and the time period in which the on-line auction process will be available to the public. If the auction is conducted through an on-line auction process, no property shall be delivered to the purchaser until the city has verified that good funds equivalent to cash have been received by the city. The city shall not be responsible for any shipping or delivery cost associated with any sale through an on-line auction process.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 7; Ord. of 4-12-04)
Sec. 11-57. - Terms of sale.
All articles sold under this article shall be sold for cash (U.S. currency) to the highest bidder in an "as is" condition. No warranties of any nature, either expressed or implied, either as to merchantable title, quality or performance are to be made by the police department. All purchasers shall sign a release form documenting that they have been advised of the provisions of this section.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 4)
Sec. 11-58. - Public disclaimer at sale.
It shall be the responsibility of the person conducting a sale under this article to make a public announcement prior to opening the sale that neither the police department, the city government nor any employee or agent thereof does warranty title to any article, nor is there any other warranty, either expressed or implied, as to any article sold, and that all sales are final and all articles are sold in an "as is" condition. It shall be the duty of this individual in charge to make this announcement at intervals during the progress of the sale.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 8)
Sec. 11-59. - Disposition of proceeds.
It shall be the responsibility of the police department to make a true accounting to the city council of all property sold and monies collected from the sales conducted as provided herein, which money shall be made available to the city.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 9)
Sec. 11-60. - Purchase of property for resale.
No property shall be purchased under the provisions of this article for the purpose of resale.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 10)
Sec. 11-61. - Firearms excluded from public sale.
No rifle, handgun or firearm of any kind shall be sold at public sale under this article. Firearms may be converted to use of the police department when such firearm has not been claimed within the six-month period, and after a faithful and diligent attempt to return the firearm to the true owner has failed, or firearms may be sold by the police department to a licensed firearms dealer provided the value of the firearm does not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). Illegal firearms, such as handmade guns or "sawed off shotguns," will be destroyed and a record thereof retained.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 11)
Sec. 11-62. - Charitable donations.
Any unclaimed property which is offered for public sale and is not sold may be, depending on its condition, donated to a charitable purpose or discarded at the discretion of the chief of police.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 12)
Sec. 11-63. - Conversion to city use.
The city council may elect to convert unclaimed property to city governmental use at its discretion rather than offer it for sale at auction.
(Ord. of 4-9-90(3), § 5)
Secs. 11-64—11-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance of May 10, 2010, amended the Code by repealing former art. IV, §§ 11-81—11-83, and adding a new art. IV. Former art. IV pertained to alarm systems, and derived from an ordinance of April 8, 1985.
Cross reference— False fire alarms, § 6-13.

Sec. 11-81. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this ordinance, shall have the meanings ascribed to them, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alarm signal means a detectable signal; audible or visual, generated by an alarm system, to which law enforcement is, requested to respond.
Alarm system means any single device or assembly of equipment designed to signal the occurrence of an illegal or unauthorized entry or other activity requiring immediate attention and to which law enforcement is requested to respond, but does not include motor vehicle or boat alarms, fire alarms, domestic violence alarms, or alarms designed to elicit a medical response.
Alarm user means any person, corporation, partnership, proprietorship, or any other entity owning, leasing or operating an alarm system, or on whose premises an alarm system is maintained for the protection of such premises.
Automatic dial protection device means an automatic dialing device or an automatic telephone dialing alarm system and shall include any system which, upon being activated, automatically initiates to the city police department a recorded message or code signal indicating a need for law enforcement response.
Cancellation means the process where response is terminated when the alarm company (designated by the alarm user) notifies the city police department that there is not an existing situation at the alarm site requiring police response after an alarm dispatch request. If cancellation occurs prior to police arriving at the scene, this is not a false alarm.
City means the City of Duluth.
False alarm means the activation of an alarm system through mechanical or electronic failure, malfunction, improper installation, or the negligence of the alarm user, his/her employees or agents, and signals activated to summon law enforcement personnel unless law enforcement response was cancelled by the alarm user or his/her agent before law enforcement personnel arrive at the alarm location. An alarm is false within the meaning of this article when, upon inspection by the city police department, evidence indicates that no unauthorized entry, robbery, or other such crime was committed or attempted in or on the premises which would have activated a properly functioning alarm system. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a false alarm shall not include an alarm which was activated due to an electrical storm, severe winds or a power outage.
(Ord. of 5-10-10)
Sec. 11-82. - Duties of the alarm user.
(a)
Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a method that will reduce or eliminate false alarms; and
(b)
Provide and maintain with the alarm company the updated and accurate contact information for the person or persons responsible for the alarm, including name, phone numbers where the person may be reached and home address.
(c)
Must respond or cause a representative to respond to the alarm system's location within thirty (30) minutes when notified by the city police department to deactivate a malfunctioning alarm system.
(d)
Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than an occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report or to perform routine maintenance as prescribed by alarm system provider.
(Ord. of 5-10-10)
Sec. 11-83. - Prohibited acts.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to activate an alarm system for the purpose of summoning law enforcement when no burglary, robbery, or other crime dangerous to life or property is being committed or attempted on the premises, or otherwise to cause a false alarm, except as provided by subsection 11-82(d).
(b)
It shall be unlawful to install, maintain, or use an automatic dial protection device that reports, or causes to be reported, any recorded message to the city police department.
(c)
Excessive false alarms. It is hereby found and determined that three or more false alarms within a calendar year is excessive, constitutes a public nuisance, and shall be unlawful. Fines and incarceration for false alarms within a calendar year may be imposed against an alarm user as provided in section 11-84.
(Ord. of 5-10-10)
Sec. 11-84. - Enforcement of provisions.
(a)
Upon a finding of a violation of any provision of this article the city police department shall be authorized to issue a citation of violation which shall be thereafter prosecuted in the city municipal court.
(b)
Violations of section 11-83 shall be punished by up to thirty (30) days of incarceration and/or fines in the following amounts:
Third false alarm in any one calendar year .....$50.00
Fourth false alarm in any one calendar year .....50.00
Fifth false alarm in any one calendar year .....100.00
Sixth false alarm in any one calendar year .....100.00
Seventh false alarm in any one calendar year .....125.00
Eighth or greater false alarm in any one calendar year .....150.00
(c)
No fine issued for any violation under this article shall exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(d)
Other penalty(ies). Except as provided in subsection (c) above, violations of this article may be enforced through the assessment of fines in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per violation.
(Ord. of 5-10-10; Ord. of 10-14-13)
Sec. 11-85. - Appeals.
Decisions and orders of the municipal court under this article are subject to review in the county superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari.
(Ord. of 5-10-10)
Sec. 11-86. - Severability.
The provisions of this ordinance are severable. If a court determines that a word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, subsection, section, or other provision is invalid or that the application of any part of the provision to any person or circumstance is invalid, the remaining provisions and the application of those provisions to other persons or circumstances are not affected by that decision.
(Ord. of 5-10-10)
