ARTICLE III. - REGULATORY CODES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance of February 24, 2014, repealed the former §§ 5-55—5-61.7, and enacted new §§ 5-55—5-61.5 as set out herein. The former §§ 5-55—5-61.7 pertained to similar material. See the Code Comparative Table for the ordinance history of these sections.
State Law reference— Municipal authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. 1983, Art. IX, Sec. II, Para. III(a)(12).

Sec. 5-55. - Building code.
The International Building Code, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with all appendices (with the exception of appendix A, B, D and K), and with Georgia Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-56. - Property maintenance code.
The International Property Maintenance Code, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with Georgia Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-57. - Electrical code.
The National Electrical Code, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with annex. A, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-58. - Mechanical code.
The International Mechanical Code, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with all appendices (with the exception of appendix B), and with Georgia Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-59. - Fuel gas code.
The International Fuel Gas Code, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with all appendices, and with Georgia Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-60. - Plumbing code.
The International Plumbing Code, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with all appendices (with the exception of appendix A), and with Georgia Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-61. - Residential code for one- and two-family dwellings.
The International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with all appendices (with the exception of appendix I and L), and with Georgia Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-61.1. - Energy conservation code.
The International Energy Conservation Code, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with all appendices, and with Georgia Supplements and Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-61.2. - Fire code.
The International Fire Code, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with all appendices, and with Georgia Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-61.3. - National green building standard.
The National Green Building Standard, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with Georgia Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-61.4. - Existing building code.
The International Existing Building Code, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with Georgia Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-61.5. - Swimming pool code.
The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, current edition as adopted by the Department of Community Affairs, with Georgia Amendments, is hereby adopted in and for the city.
(Ord. of 2-24-14; Ord. of 3-13-17 )
Sec. 5-62. - Enforcement officer generally.
The enforcement officer shall be the chief building inspector for the city who shall have all of the rights, powers and authorities corresponding to those of the named officials in any of the foregoing standard codes identified in sections 5-55 through 5-61 inclusive wherever such named official in such standard codes shall be identified as the responsible official insofar as inspecting and enforcing the provisions of such codes. In addition, the chief building inspector shall have all the rights, powers and authorities as provided for the zoning enforcement officer under the zoning ordinance of the city as the provisions may relate to the power of the zoning enforcement officer in connection with construction of improvements on real property within the city limits.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 121, 11-23-83)
Sec. 5-63. - Enforcement authority of inspector.
The chief building inspector, of the city shall have the authority to issue stop work orders and to revoke any permit issued pursuant to any of the codes adopted by this article as provided for in such codes. The chief building inspector shall further be an ex-officio police officer of the city and shall have authority to issue summonses and complaints for violations of this chapter. The building enforcement officer shall not have the power of arrest.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 122, 11-23-83)
Sec. 5-64. - Notice of deficiency, warning notice.
The chief building inspector, upon determining that work on any building or structure or part thereof is being done contrary to the provisions of any of the codes adopted by and in force in the city, shall issue a written notice of deficiency which shall be given to the owner of the property or to his agent or to the person doing the work and shall state the nature of the deficiency and the corrections required. The owner, his agent or the person doing the work shall have ten (10) days from the date of such notice of deficiency to correct such deficiency. Upon correcting the deficiency, the owner, agent or the person doing the work shall request a reinspection of the deficient work. If upon reinspection such work is still deficient, the chief building inspector shall advise wherein such work is still deficient and the chief building inspector may require a lesser amount of time for the correction of such deficiency. After the first reinspection of such deficient work where such deficient work does not comply with the provisions of the applicable building code, an additional reinspection fee shall be charged and shall be paid at the time that the owner or owner's agent, or person doing the work requests the second reinspection.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 123(a), 11-23-83)
Sec. 5-65. - Stop work order; revocation of building permit.
If any deficient work is not cured within the times provided in section 5-64, the chief building inspector shall have the authority to issue an order in writing which will stop all work on any building or structure and such written stop work order shall be given to the owner of the property or to his agent or to the person doing the work and shall state the reasons for the issuance of such stop work order and shall further state the conditions under which work on such building may resume. In the event that the deficient work giving rise to the stop work order is not corrected within ten (10) days from the date of the stop work order, the chief building inspector shall have the authority to revoke the building permit and all permits related to such building permit (electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating and air conditioning and other such permits related to the same job) and shall issue a summons charging a violation of this chapter and the related building codes applicable to the violation requiring the owner and any individual contractor or subcontractor who has applied for any related building code permit relating to the primary building permit whose work is deficient and has not been corrected and is the cause of the issuance of the stop work order to be and appear in answer to such summons in the recorder's court of the city subject to the provision of section 5-72.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 123(b), 11-23-83)
Sec. 5-66. - Emergency stop work orders.
Where an emergency exists, the written notice herein shall not be required to be given by the chief building inspector and the chief building inspector may orally order all work stopped until such emergency condition is cured provided, however, that the chief building inspector shall follow up with a written stop work order.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 123(c), 11-23-83)
Sec. 5-67. - Corrective work allowed after issuance of stop work order.
After the issuance of a stop work order and/or the revocation of the building permits, the only work allowed to be performed shall be that work which is necessary and required to correct the deficiencies in construction which have lead to the issuance of a notice of deficiency and the stop work order. Upon correction of such work, the building permits may be reissued so that work on the building or structure may be completed as in the case of an original permit provided, however, that the owner shall be required to pay an additional building permit fee equal to one-half the amount of all original permit fees in connection with such work.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 123(d), 11-23-83)
Sec. 5-68. - Right of appeal from decisions of inspector.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the chief building inspector shall have a right of appeal to the mayor and council. A written notice directed to the mayor and council must be filed in the office of the city clerk by any person aggrieved by a decision of the chief building inspector prior to the expiration of ten (10) days from the date of the decision of the chief building inspector in the issuance of any notice of deficiency, stop work order or revocation of a building permit or other decision of the chief building inspector authorized under the terms and provisions of any of the codes adopted by the city or under the terms and provisions of the zoning ordinance of the city. Such written notice of appeal to the mayor and council shall identify the building permit number as well as any other permit number applicable, the resident's address, shall identify the decision of the chief building inspector complained of and shall state the reasons why the aggrieved party believes that the chief building inspector is in error in his decision.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 125, 11-23-83)
Sec. 5-69. - Hearing on appeal.
The mayor and council shall hold a hearing on the appeal within fourteen (14) days from the date that the notice of appeal is filed with the office of the city clerk unless the fourteenth day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, when the appeal shall be heard not later than the next regular business day following such Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. At such hearing, all matters relating to the decision of the chief building inspector shall be inquired into and the mayor and council shall have the authority to reverse the decision of the chief building inspector, to affirm the decision of the chief building inspector or to modify and make such other decision and order as the mayor and council deem best in the exercise of their sound discretion.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 125(a), 11-23-83)
Sec. 5-70. - Attendance at hearing.
The chief building inspector, the aggrieved party filing the appeal and any contractor or subcontractor whose work has been questioned shall be personally present and in attendance at the hearing on appeal before the mayor and council from any decision of the chief building inspector. Any party may call such other witnesses as they may desire and if requested any party may obtain subpoenas from the office of the city clerk demanding and requiring that a witness be and appear at the hearing before the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 125(b), 11-23-83)
Sec. 5-71. - Notice of hearing.
The city clerk shall give notice to the chief building inspector and the aggrieved party filing notice of appeal at least seven (7) days prior to the date of the hearing before the mayor and council which notice shall be in writing and shall be deemed delivered if such notice is personally delivered, or if it is placed in the United States mail with sufficient postage thereon to ensure delivery to the party to whom such notice is directed.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 125(c), 11-23-83)
Sec. 5-72. - Penalties for violation.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall be considered to be and shall constitute a separate offense. The judge of the municipal court shall assess a fine under the provisions of this section equivalent to the total number of days from the date of the issuance of the summons that such offense continues, and may impose an additional fine for each day past the regularly scheduled court date that such violation is not corrected without the necessity for additional summonses or citations to be issued.
(Ord. No. 83-11-4, § 124, 11-23-83)
Secs. 5-73—5-100. - Reserved.
