ARTICLE VI. - DRUG DISPENSATION CONTROL ORDINANCE

Sec. 22-215. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
Ambulatory surgery centers means health care facilities where surgical procedures not requiring an overnight hospital stay are performed.
Assisted living facility means a facility that provides supervision or assistance with activities of daily living; coordination of services by outside health care providers; and monitoring of resident activities to help to ensure their health, safety, and well-being.
Dispense means to issue one or more doses of any drug for subsequent administration to, or use by, a patient.
Hospital means an institution for health care providing patient treatment by doctors, physician assistants and nurses, which doctors, physician assistants and nurses are licensed by the State of Georgia, and further that the institution provides for inpatient care overnight with bed facilities or longer-term patient stays in rooms designed for the provision of medical services.
Medical establishment means, for the purposes of this article, any person, sole proprietor, corporation, or entity proposing to offer the following services: general and family medicine, medical specialists, chiropractic services, physical therapy, physical rehabilitation, urgent care, medical clinics, or any other similar healthcare services offered to the general public, including clinics which treat patients for pain.
Outpatient facilities means facilities which are staffed by physicians licensed by the State of Georgia which are owned or operated by a hospital.
Pharmacy, in-house or pharmacies means any commercial enterprise or enterprises with individuals licensed by the State of Georgia to practice pharmacy employed thereby, which engage in the practice of pharmacy and which derive 25 percent or less of its gross revenues from the sale of Schedule II, III or IV Drugs.
Practice of pharmacy means the interpretation, evaluation, or dispensing of prescription drug orders; participation in drug and device selection, drug administration, drug regimen reviews, and drug or drug related research; provisions of patient counseling and the provision of those acts or services necessary to provide pharmacy care, and the responsibility for compounding and labeling of drugs and devices, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 26-4-4.
Professional samples means complimentary doses of a drug, medication vouchers, or medical devices provided by the manufacturer for use in patient care.
Schedule II, III or IV Drugs means drugs defined in O.C.G.A. §§ 16-13-26 through 16-13-29.
(Ord. No. 2011-1674, § I, 8-22-2011)
Sec. 22-216. - Exceptions.
(a)
The following businesses or entities and practices are exempt or partially exempt from the provisions of this article VI:
(1)
Hospitals,
(2)
Ambulatory surgery centers, but ambulatory surgery centers are exempt from the provisions of this article VI only with respect to those patients who have undergone surgery in such center within the last year of being prescribed drugs,
(3)
Assisted living facilities, but only as to those living therein,
(4)
Outpatient facilities operated or owned by a hospital, and
(5)
Pharmacy, in-house pharmacy and pharmacies.
(b)
The dispensation of professional samples shall also be exempt from the provisions of this article VI.
(Ord. No. 2011-1674, § I, 8-22-2011)
Sec. 22-217. - Prohibition of dispensing.
No medical establishment, person or entity shall dispense Schedule II, III or IV Drugs in the City of Woodstock for payment or compensation of any nature whatsoever unless such medical establishment, person or entity is specifically exempted from the effect of this article VI as set forth in section 22-216 above or except with respect to the dispensation of professional samples as set forth in section 22-216 above. This provision does not prohibit medical establishments from prescribing Schedule II, III or IV drugs for patients to pick up at pharmacies.
(Ord. No. 2011-1674, § I, 8-22-2011)
Sec. 22-218. - Inspection allowed.
The city shall from time to time make an inspection of each medical establishment for the purposes of determining that the provisions of this article are fully complied with. It shall be unlawful for any medical establishment to fail to allow such inspection officer access to the premises or hinder such officer in any manner, provided, however, such inspection officer shall not have the right to access any patient's personal information in violation of the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as the same may have been amended or modified. The inspection officer or officers shall be appointed by the city manager or the chief of police, as either may see fit.
(Ord. No. 2011-1674, § I, 8-22-2011)
Sec. 22-219. - Violation.
Any person in violation of this article shall be subject to the provisions of section 1-7 of the Code of Woodstock, Georgia. Any person in violation of the provisions of this article shall be subject to arrest provided that arrest is permissible under O.C.G.A. § 17-4-20.
(Ord. No. 2011-1674, § I, 8-22-2011)
Note: O.C.G.A. § 17-4-20 provides that "an arrest for a crime may be made by a law enforcement officer either under a warrant or without a warrant if the offense is committed in such officer's presence or within such officer's immediate knowledge; if the offender is endeavoring to escape; if the officer has probable cause to believe that an act of family violence...has been committed; if the officer has probable cause to believe that an offense involving physical abuse has been committed against a vulnerable adult...or for other cause if there is likely to be [a] failure of justice for want of a judicial officer to issue a warrant." This Code section applies to municipal ordinances. See e.g., Schroder v. State, 261 Ga.App. 879, 881 (2003) ("Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 17-4-20 a warrantless arrest is legal if any crime is committed in an officer's presence or within his immediate knowledge. This Code section also applies to violations of municipal ordinances.") (emphasis supplied).
