ARTICLE IX. - RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

Sec. 2-551. - Definition of municipal records.
Records means all documents, papers, letter, maps, books (except books in formally organized libraries), microfilm, magnetic tape, laserfische or other material, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received pursuant to law or ordinance or in performance of functions by any employee, committee, board elected official, department, or other agency of the City of Woodstock, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 1, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-552. - Additional definitions.
Court record means all documents, papers, letters, maps, books (except books formally organize in libraries), microfilm, magnetic tape, or other material, regardless of physical form or characteristics made or received pursuant to law or ordinance or in the necessary performance of any judicial function created or received by an official of the Supreme Court, Court of Appeals, and any superior, state, juvenile, probate or magistrate court. Court record includes records of the offices of the judge, clerk, prosecuting attorney, public defender, court reporter, or any employee of the court.
Department director means the officer who by ordinance or administrative policy is in charge of an office of the City of Woodstock, GA, that creates or receives records.
Georgia State Archives means an establishment maintained by the department for the preservation of those records and other papers that have been determined by the department to have sufficient historical and other value to warrant their continued preservation by the state and that have been accepted by the department for deposit in its custody.
Governing body means the Mayor and Council of the City of Woodstock, Georgia.
Permanent record means any record of the City of Woodstock, GA, for which the retention period on a records retention schedule is given as permanent.
Records center means an establishment maintained by the department primarily for the storage, processing, servicing, and security of public records that must be retained for varying periods of time but need not be retained in an agency s office equipment or office space.
Records manager means the person designated in section 2-555.
Records management plan means the plan developed under section 2-556.
Records management means the application of management techniques to the creation, utilization, maintenance, retention, preservation and disposal of records undertaken to reduce costs and improve efficiency of record keeping. "Records management" includes management of filing and microfilming equipment and supplies; filing and information retrieval systems; files, correspondence, reports, and forms management; historical documentation; micrographics; retention programming; and vital records protection.
Retention period means the minimum time that must pass after the creation recording or receipt of a record, or the fulfillment of certain actions associated with a record, before it is eligible for destruction.
Retention schedule means a set of disposition instructions prescribing how long, where, and in what form a record series shall be kept.
Vital record means any record vital to the resumption or continuation of operations, or both; to the re-creation of the legal and financial status of government in the state; or to the protection and fulfillment of obligations to citizens of the city/state.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 2, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-553. - Municipal records declared public property.
(a)
All municipal records as defined in section 2-551 are hereby declared to be the property of the city. No municipal official or employee has, by virtue of his or her position, any personal or property right to such records even though he or she may have developed or compiled them. The unauthorized destruction, removal from files, or use of such records is prohibited.
(b)
No person is permitted to take away from the city hall or any other place where the records are lawfully stored any records for any purpose whatsoever, unless by competent and lawful court order except by motion of the governing body.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 3, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-554. - Policy.
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City of Woodstock, GA to provide for efficient, economical and effective controls over the creation, distribution, organization, maintenance, use and disposition of all municipal records through a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for their management from creation to ultimate disposition, consistent with the requirements of the Georgia Records Act and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 4, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-555. - Designation of records manager.
The city clerk and the successive holders of said office shall serve as records manager for the city.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 5, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-556. - Records management plan to be developed; approval of plan; authority of plan.
(a)
The records manager shall develop a records management plan for the city for submission to the mayor and council. The plan must contain policies and procedures designed to reduce the costs and improve the efficiency of record keeping, to adequately protect the essential records of the municipality, and to properly preserve those records of the municipality that are of historical value. The plan must be designed to enable the records manager to carry out his or her duties prescribed by state law and this article effectively.
(b)
Once approved by the mayor and council the records management plan shall be binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs, commissions, bureaus, boards, committees, or similar entities of the city and records shall be created, maintained, stored, scanned, microfilmed or disposed of in accordance with the plan.
(c)
State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities, or recordkeeping requirements of a department director do not exempt the department director or the records in the department director's care from the application of this article and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used by the department director as a basis for refusal to participate in the records management program of the city.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 6, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-557. - Duties of records manager.
In addition to other duties assigned in this article the records manager shall:
(1)
Administer the records management program and provide assistance to department directors in its implementation;
(2)
Plan, formulate, and prescribe records disposition policies, systems, standards and procedures;
(3)
In cooperation with department directors/coordinator, identify essential records and establish a disaster plan for each municipal office and department to ensure maximum availability of the records in order to re-establish operations quickly and with minimum disruption and expense;
(4)
Develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of the historically valuable records of the city;
(5)
Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for recordkeeping supplies;
(6)
Study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform filing system, scanning and a forms design and control system for the city;
(7)
Monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued by the Georgia State Library and Archives Commission to determine if the records management program and the municipality's records retention schedules are in compliance with state regulations;
(8)
Disseminate to the mayor and council and department directors/coordinators information concerning state laws and administrative rules relating to local government records;
(9)
Ensure that the maintenance, preservation, scanning, microfilming, destruction, or other disposition of the records of the city are carried out in accordance with the policies and procedures of the records management program and the requirements of state law;
(10)
Maintain records on the volume of records destroyed under approved records retention schedules or through records destruction authorization requests, the volume of records microfilmed or stored electronically, and the estimated cost and space savings as the result of such disposal or disposition;
(11)
Report annually to the mayor and council on the implementation of the records management plan in each department of the city; and
(12)
Bring to the attention of the mayor and council noncompliance by department directors/coordinators or other municipal personnel with the policies and procedures of the records management program or the Georgia Records Act.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 7, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-558. - Duties and responsibilities of department directors.
In addition to other duties assigned in this article department directors shall:
(1)
Cooperate with the records manager in carrying out the policies and procedures established in the city for the efficient and economical management of records and in carrying out the requirements of this article;
(2)
Adequately document the transaction of government business and the services, programs, and duties for which the department director and his other staff are responsible;
(3)
Maintain the records in his or her care and carry out their preservation, scanning, microfilming, destruction, or other disposition only in accordance with the policies and procedures of the records management program of the city and the requirements of this article; and
(4)
Assign the duties of records coordinator to at least one person in their department to act on behalf of the department in implementing the records management program and open records requests in coordination with the records manager.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 8, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-559. - Records retention schedules to be developed; approval; filing with state.
(a)
The records manager, in cooperation with department directors, shall prepare records retention schedules on a department by department basis listing all records series created or received by the department and the retention period for each series. Records retention schedules shall also contain such other information regarding the disposition of municipal records as the records management plan may require.
(b)
Each records retention schedule shall be monitored and amended as needed by the records manager on a regular basis to ensure that it is in compliance with records retention schedules issued by the state and that it continues to reflect the record keeping procedures and needs of the department and the records management program of the city.
(c)
Before its adoption a records retention schedule or amended schedule for a department must be approved by the department director and the governing body.
(d)
Before its adoption a records retention schedule must be submitted to and accepted for filing by the Georgia Archives Department. If a schedule is not accepted for filing the schedule shall be amended to make it acceptable for filing. The records manager shall submit the records retention schedules to the Georgia Department of Archives.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 9, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-560. - Implementation of records retention schedules; destruction of records under schedule.
(a)
A records retention schedule for a department that has been approved and adopted under section 2-559 shall be implemented by department directors according to the policies and procedures of the records management plan.
(b)
A record whose retention period has expired on a records retention schedule shall be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the record; the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending lawsuit; or the department director requests in writing to the records manager that the record be retained for an additional period.
(c)
Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records retention schedule, authorization for the destruction must be obtained by the records manager from the mayor and council.
(d)
The records manager shall maintain a certificate of destruction which shall show the type of records destroyed, the approved retention schedule number, the date approved for destruction by council, the dates covered and the volume destroyed.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 10, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-561. - Destruction of unscheduled records.
A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records retention schedule may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same manner as a record destroyed under an approved schedule and the records manager has submitted to and received back from the Georgia Archives Department authorization for the request.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 11, 3-12-2007)
Sec. 2-562. - Records management committee.
(a)
Creation. A records management committee consisting of the following: human resources director/risk manager, zoning administrator, finance director, chief building official, police chief and mayor shall be established. The records manager shall serve as the secretary to this committee.
(b)
Responsibilities. The RMC shall be responsible for:
(1)
Assisting the records manager in the development of policies and procedures governing the records management program for the city;
(2)
Reviewing the performance and participation of the program on an annual basis;
(3)
Proposing changes and improvements to the records retention policy if needed;
(4)
Planning, formulating and prescribing records disposition policies, systems, standards and procedures;
(5)
Monitoring records retention schedules in compliance with the State of Georgia Records Retention Schedule for Local Government Records.
(c)
The RMC will review all lists of records proposed to be destroyed, for pending open records requests, records pertinent to a pending lawsuit, or when a department director requests in writing to the RMC that certain records be retained for a period longer than that established by ordinance.
(Ord. No. 007-2007, § 12, 3-12-2007)
Secs. 2-563—2-599. - Reserved.
