ARTICLE II. - JUNK DEALERS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— State regulations governing junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1 et seq.; control of junkyards, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-240 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business premises and premises mean the area of a junkyard as described in a junk dealer's license or application for license, as provided for in this article.
Business registration means the process by which a business or a practitioner of a profession or occupation gives evidence of compliance with the requirements of chapter 86, Taxation.
Junk means old iron, steel, brass, copper, tin, lead or other base metals; old cordage, ropes, rags, fibers or fabrics; old rubber; old bottles or other glass; bones; wastepaper and other waste or discarded material which might be prepared to be used again in some form; and motor vehicles, no longer used as such, to be used for scrap metal or stripping of parts; but the term "junk" shall not include materials or objects accumulated by a person as byproducts, waste or scraps from the operation of his own business, or materials or objects held and used by a manufacturer as an integral part of his own manufacturing process.
Junk dealer means a person who operates a junkyard within the city.
Junkyard means a yard, lot or place, covered or uncovered, outdoors or in an enclosed building, containing junk, upon which occurs one or more acts of buying, keeping, dismantling, processing, selling or offering for sale any such junk, in whole units or by parts, for a business or commercial purpose, whether or not the proceeds from such act or acts are to be used for charity.
(Ord. of 6-10-2013)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-240.
Sec. 22-32. - Business registration and license required.
Each junk dealer who does business within the city shall be required to obtain the necessary business registration in the manner specified in chapter 86, article III, pertaining to occupational license taxes, as well as to obtain a junk dealer's license in the manner specified in division 2 of this article.
(Ord. of 6-10-2013)
Charter reference— Specific power to regulate or prohibit junk dealers, § 1.13(16).
State Law reference— Junk dealers must also register with the county probate court, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-2.
Secs. 22-33—22-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - APPLICATION PROCEDURES

Sec. 22-51. - Contents.
In addition to the application information required by section 86-72, the application shall contain:
(1)
Trade names used during the previous five years by the applicant and each person signing the application, along with the locations of prior establishments;
(2)
Names and addresses of employers of each person signing the application during the previous years;
(3)
The name, residence address and telephone number of each person employed or intended to be employed in the business as of the time the application is filed;
(4)
A sketch of the actual premises to be used in connection with the business, giving distances in feet and showing adjoining roads, property lines, buildings and uses; and
(5)
A description of the materials with which any buildings to be used in connection with the licensed business are or are to be made; a sketch giving distances, showing the location of such buildings on the business premises; and a diagram or plan giving distances and heights, showing floors, exits, entrances, windows, ventilators and walls.
(Ord. of 6-10-2013)
Sec. 22-52. - Review of application.
(a)
No action on any application for a license to operate a junkyard shall be taken by the city council until the planning commission has reviewed such application and forwarded its recommendation thereon to the city clerk.
(b)
Upon approval of the application by the city council, the city clerk may issue the license after payment of a fee to be set from time to time by the city council.
(Ord. of 6-10-2013)
Secs. 22-53—22-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 22-71. - Generally.
The following general operating requirements shall apply to all junk dealers licensed in accordance with the provisions of this article:
(1)
The junkyard, together with things kept therein, shall at all times be maintained in a sanitary condition.
(2)
No space not covered by the license shall be used in the licensed business.
(3)
No water shall be allowed to stand in any place on the premises in such manner as to afford a breeding place for mosquitoes.
(4)
No weeds shall be permitted to attain a height of more than four inches.
(5)
No garbage or other waste liable to give off a foul odor or attract vermin shall be kept on the premises; nor shall any refuse of any kind be kept on the premises, unless such refuse is junk and is in use in the licensed business.
(6)
No junk shall be allowed to rest upon or protrude over any public street, walkway or curb, or become scattered or blown off the business premises.
(7)
Junk shall be stored in piles not exceeding ten feet in height and shall be arranged so as to permit easy access to all such junk for firefighting purposes.
(8)
No combustible material of any kind not necessary or beneficial to the licensed business shall be kept on the premises; nor shall the premises be allowed to become a fire hazard.
(9)
Gasoline and oil shall be removed from any scrapped engines or vehicles on the premises.
(10)
No junk or other material shall be burned on the premises in any incinerator not meeting the requirements of the building code adopted in chapter 18, article II, division 2 of this Code; and no junk or other material shall be burned on the premises in the open except in accordance with the provisions of section 42-72 - Open burning.
(11)
No noisy processing of junk or other noisy activity shall be carried on in connection with the licensed business on any Sunday, Christmas, Thanksgiving or at any time between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(12)
The area on the premises where junk is kept (other than indoors) shall be enclosed, except for entrances and exits, with a solid, vertical wall or fence of a minimum height of ten feet measured from ground level. The fence or wall shall not contain any poster or advertising of any kind excepting one sign of the licensee.
(13)
Entrances and exits shall not be wider or more numerous than reasonably necessary for the conduct of the licensed business.
(14)
No junkyard shall be allowed to become a nuisance; nor shall any junkyard be operated in such manner as to become injurious to the health, safety or welfare of the community or of any residents close by.
(Ord. of 6-10-2013)
Sec. 22-72. - Records; inspection.
(a)
Each acquisition of junk shall be recorded in a permanent type register kept on the business premises, giving the name and residence address of the person from whom the acquisition was made, a description of the junk acquired, and the date of the transaction. Such data shall be held available for inspection by any police officer.
(b)
The licensee shall permit inspection of the business premises by any police officer at any reasonable time.
(Ord. of 6-10-2013)
Sec. 22-73. - Minors.
No junk dealer shall have any business dealings as a junk dealer with a minor, nor shall a junk dealer's license be issued to a minor, nor shall a junk dealer employ a minor to assist him in his business.
(Ord. of 6-10-2013)
Sec. 22-74. - Stolen goods.
Every junk dealer who shall receive or be in possession of any goods, articles or things of value which may have been lost or stolen shall, upon demand, produce such article or thing to any member of the police department for examination.
(Ord. of 6-10-2013)
Sec. 22-75. - Vehicles.
Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his business shall bear thereon in legible characters the name and address of the owner and proprietor thereof.
(Ord. of 6-10-2013)
Secs. 22-76—22-100. - Reserved.
