Chapter 82 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; amusements and entertainments, ch. 10; businesses, ch. 22; vehicles for hire, ch. 90.
State Law reference— Taxation power of municipal governments, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 4, par. 1; limitation on taxing power of municipalities, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 8; ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-2; municipal taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq.; specific business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 82-1. - Ad valorem tax rate.
An annual ad valorem tax upon all real and personal property within the city is hereby levied. The millage rate therefor shall be established each year by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-1; Ord. No. 412, § 1, 3-19-96)
State Law reference— Municipal taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq.
Secs. 82-2—82-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUSINESS PERSONAL PROPERTY TAX

Sec. 82-36. - Time for filing return; contents of return.
The DeKalb County Tax Commissioner shall open the city books for returns of taxes on business personal property on January 1 of each year, by and for the individual returns to be made by the property owners and tax payers to the tax commissioner for all business personal property owned, held and subject to a tax return to and for taxation by the city on January 1 of the year as required to be returned; and each person liable and subject to such a tax return in the city and for taxes by the city, between January 1 and March 1 of each year, shall fill out completely and answer fully all pertinent and applicable questions under oath administered by the county tax commissioner or by any person authorized to administer an oath or attest deeds in the state as contained in the tax return form furnished by the county tax commissioner. Among other answers thereon and information required thereby, the property owner and taxpayer shall set forth in the tax return the value, as required by the laws of the state, of all business personal property owned, held or controlled by him which is subject to a tax return to the city and which is subject to taxation by the city.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-2; Ord. No. 412, § 2, 3-19-96)
Sec. 82-37. - Assessment of tax on failure to file return.
The tax commissioner shall open the books for tax returns pursuant to this article on January 1, and close them on March 1, or as soon thereafter as possible. Should any taxpayer fail or refuse to make his return during such period, the tax commissioner shall, from the best information he can secure, ascertain the amount and value of such property not returned and assess the tax against such taxpayer. The tax commissioner shall thereupon mail to such taxpayer, at his last known address, a written notice of the assessment and the amount thereof.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-3; Ord. No. 412, § 3, 3-19-96)
Sec. 82-38. - Penalty for failure to file return.
In all cases where unreturned business personal property is assessed by the county, a penalty equal to ten percent of the value of such unreturned property shall be added to the amount of taxes due. The penalty provided in this section shall be collected under any provision of city ordinances providing for the collection of city taxes or by the provisions of any applicable law providing for the collection of such taxes and penalty, and, in all cases, such collected amounts shall be paid into the general fund of the city to be used for general purposes and expenses of the city.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-4; Ord. No. 412, § 4, 3-19-96)
Sec. 82-39. - Time for collection; notice of collection.
One-half of the taxes shall be due and payable on July 1 of each year and shall become delinquent if not paid by August 15 in each year. The remaining one-half of the taxes shall be due and payable on October 1 of each year and shall become delinquent if not paid by November 15 of each year. A penalty not to exceed five percent of the amount of each installment shall be added to each installment that is not paid before the installment becomes delinquent.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-5; Ord. No. 412, § 5, 3-19-96)
Sec. 82-40. - Notice of delinquency.
All taxes remaining unpaid as of the close of business on December 31 of each year shall bear interest at the rate specified in O.C.G.A. § 48-2-40, but in no event shall an interest payment for delinquent taxes be less than $1.00. The tax collectors shall issue executions for delinquent taxes, penalties, and interest against each delinquent taxpayer.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-6; Ord. No. 412, § 6, 3-19-96)
Sec. 82-41. - Interest on delinquent tax.
If taxes on business personal property are paid subsequent to the date due, there shall be added to such taxes interest at the maximum rate allowed by state law.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-7)
Secs. 82-42—82-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ROOMS, LODGINGS AND ACCOMMODATIONS TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— County and municipal excise taxes on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.; operators of hotels, inns and roadhouses, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-1 et seq.

Sec. 82-66. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Guestroom means a room occupied or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy by one or more occupants, other than meeting rooms intended, designed and used for that purpose.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, public club or private club, containing guestrooms and which is occupied or is intended or designed for occupancy by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. It does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention building or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession or the right to use or possession of any guestroom or apartment in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the right to use or possess any guestroom in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the city, including but not limited to the owner or proprietor of the premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, person licensed to operate the hotel, or any other person otherwise operating the hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guestroom in a hotel for at least ten consecutive days next preceding that date. The right of occupancy for at least ten consecutive days is clearly established through the advance payment of ten days' rent or when a lease has been signed for a period in excess of ten days.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this article.
Tax means the tax imposed by sections 82-70 and 82-71.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-1A)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-67. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of an offense, punishable as provided in section 1-6.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-15(a))
Sec. 82-68. - Failure to register or file return; false or fraudulent returns or reports.
Any operator or other person who fails to register as required in this article or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the clerk, or who renders a false or fraudulent return, shall be deemed guilty of an offense. Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any report who makes any false or fraudulent report with intent to defeat or evade the determination of an amount due required by this article to be made shall be deemed guilty of an offense, punishable as provided in section 1-6.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-15(b))
Sec. 82-69. - Administration of article.
(a)
Authority of clerk. The clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the levy and collection of the tax.
(b)
Administrative rules and regulations. The clerk shall have the power and authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this article or other laws of the city and the state or the constitution of this state or the United States, for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and the collection of the taxes under this article.
(c)
License fee review board. The mayor and council shall constitute the license fee review board referred to in this article. It shall be the duty of the license fee review board to accept questions or disputes concerning the administration and implementation of this article, and to advise the clerk of its opinion on the various questions brought before it.
(d)
Required records. Every operator renting guestrooms in the city to a person shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the clerk may require.
(e)
Examination of records; audits. The clerk or any person authorized in writing by the clerk may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guestrooms to a person and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or, if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(f)
Authority to require reports relating to tax. In administration of the provisions of this article, the clerk may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in the person's or persons' possession or custody information relating to rentals of guestrooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the clerk when required by the clerk, and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the dates of occupancy, and such other information as the clerk may require.
(g)
Confidentiality of information. The clerk or any other person having an administrative duty under this article shall not make known in any manner the business affairs, operations or information obtained by an audit of books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures or any particular thereof set forth or disclosed in any return, or permit any return or copy thereof or any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person not having that administrative duty under this article, except in case of judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the tax levied and assessed by this article. Successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given information as to the items included in the measure and amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-14)
Sec. 82-70. - Levy; applicability; maximum rate.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b), there is hereby levied an excise tax at the rate of eight percent upon the furnishings for value to the public of any room, lodging or accommodations furnished by any person licensed by or required to pay business or occupation taxes to the city for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings or accommodations are regularly furnished for value. No tax shall be levied as provided in this section on:
(1)
Charges made for any rooms, lodgings or accommodations provided to any persons who certify that they are staying in such room, lodging or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty;
(2)
The use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or any rooms, lodgings or accommodations provided without charge;
(3)
Any rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by Georgia state or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the persons as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings or accommodations with a state or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a Georgia state or local government official or employee traveling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided by this subsection. For purpose of the exemption provided under this subsection, a local government official or employee shall include officials or employees of counties, municipalities, consolidated governments or county or independent school districts; or
(4)
Charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy.
(b)
No tax levied pursuant to this section shall be levied or collected at a rate exceeding eight percent of the charge to the public for the furnishings. The proceeds of this tax shall be used in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b).
(Code 1982, § 3-5-1; Ord. No. 640, pt. I, 5-17-05; Ord. No. 595, pt. I, 2-17-09; Ord. No. 617, pt. I, 10-19-10; Ord. No. 739 , pt. I, 7-18-17)
Sec. 82-71. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 540, pt. I, adopted May 17, 2005, repealed section 82-71 in its entirety. Former section 82-71 pertained to authorization of a higher tax for use in promotion of tourism, conventions and trade shows, and derived from the Code of 1982, §§ 3-5-2, 3-5-3.
Sec. 82-72. - Persons liable for tax; extinguishment of liability.
Every person occupying a guestroom in a hotel in the city is liable for the tax. His liability is not extinguished until the tax has been paid to the city, except that a receipt from an operator maintaining a place of business in the city or from an operator who is authorized by the clerk, under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe, to collect the tax, and who is, for the purposes of this article, regarded as an operator maintaining a place of business in the city, which receipt is given to the occupant pursuant to section 82-73, is sufficient to relieve the occupant from further liability for the tax to which the receipt refers.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-4)
Sec. 82-73. - Collection by operator; receipt; collection schedules.
Every operator maintaining a place of business in the city as provided in section 82-72, and renting guestrooms in the city, not exempted under section 82-75, shall, at the time of collecting the rent from the occupant and on demand, give to the occupant a receipt therefor. In all cases of transactions upon credit or deferred payment, the payment of tax to the operator may be deferred in accordance therewith, and the operator shall be liable therefor at the time and to the extent that those credits are incurred, in accordance with the rate of tax owing on the amount thereof. The clerk shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations prescribing methods and schedules for the collection and payment of the tax.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-5)
Sec. 82-74. - Unlawful advertising regarding tax.
It is unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to the public or to any guest, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator or that it will not be added to the rental of the guestroom, or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-6)
Sec. 82-75. - Exemption for permanent residents.
No tax shall be imposed under this article upon a permanent resident.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-7)
Sec. 82-76. - Registration of operators; certificate of authority.
(a)
Every person engaging in or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in the city shall immediately register with the clerk, on a form provided by the clerk. Persons engaging in the business must so register not later than 15 days after the date this article becomes effective and the tax is imposed as set forth in sections 82-70 and 82-71, but the privilege of registration after the imposition of the tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of tax on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of the date of registration.
(b)
The registration shall set forth the name under which the person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place of business, and any other information which would facilitate the collection of the tax as the clerk may require.
(c)
The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; and in the case of ownership by a corporation, by an executive officer or some person specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the registration.
(d)
The clerk shall, after the registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant.
(e)
A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator.
(f)
Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable, and shall be prominently displayed therein so as to be seen and to come readily to the notice of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy.
(g)
The certificates shall be nonassignable and nontransferable, and shall be returned immediately to the clerk upon the cessation of business at the location named, or upon the sale or transfer of the business at that location.
(h)
Should the clerk deem it necessary, in order to facilitate initial registration under this article of persons engaged in business on or prior to the date of imposition of tax as set forth in this article, he may prescribe administrative provisions therefor other than those provided in this section. These provisions shall be made to effect the purposes of this section.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-8)
Sec. 82-77. - Payment by occupant; filing of return; remittance to city.
(a)
Date for payment and remittance. The tax shall become due and payable from the occupant at the time of occupancy of any hotel in the city. All amounts of such taxes collected by any operator shall be due and payable to the clerk monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period.
(b)
Filing of return. On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the clerk, in such form as the clerk may prescribe, by every operator liable for the payment of tax under this article.
(c)
Contents of return. All returns shall show the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as may be required by the clerk.
(d)
Address for delivery of return and remittance. The person required to file the return shall deliver the return, together with the remittance of the net amount of tax due, to the city clerk, City of Chamblee, 5468 Peachtree Road, Chamblee, Georgia 30341.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-9)
Sec. 82-78. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Computation of tax by clerk. If the clerk is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any person, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month or any fraction of a month from the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned until the payment.
(c)
Offsetting of overpayments. In making a determination, the clerk may offset overpayments for a period against underpayments for another period, against penalties, and against the interest on underpayments. The interest on underpayments shall be computed in the manner set forth in section 82-79(c).
(d)
Penalty for negligence or disregard of regulations. If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination has been made is due to negligence or disregard of rules and regulations, a penalty of 15 percent of the amount of the deficiency shall be added thereto.
(e)
Penalty for fraud or intent to evade. If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination is made is due to fraud or an intent to evade any provisions of this article or other authorized rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the deficiency shall be added thereto.
(f)
Notice of determination. The clerk or his designated representative shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail. If notice is given by mail, the service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the clerk. In case of service by mail of any notice required by this article, the service is complete at the time of deposit in the United States post office.
(g)
Time limit for service of notice. Except in the case of fraud, intent to evade this article or authorized rules or regulations, or failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-10)
Sec. 82-79. - Determination of tax if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return, the clerk shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person or, as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in the city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the person failed to make the return, and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the clerk. Upon the basis of this estimate, the clerk shall compute and determine the amount required to be paid the city, adding to the sum thus determined a penalty equal to 15 percent thereof. One or more determinations may be made for one or more periods.
(b)
Offsetting of overpayments. In making a determination, the clerk may offset overpayments for a period against underpayments for another period, against penalties, and against the interest on the underpayments. The interest on underpayments shall be computed in the manner set forth in subsection (c) of this section.
(c)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month or any fraction of a month from the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned until the date of payment.
(d)
Penalty for fraud or intent to evade. If the failure of any person to file a return is due to fraud or an intent to evade this article or other authorized rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the amount required to be paid by the person, exclusive of penalties, shall be added thereto in addition to the 15 percent penalty provided in section 82-80.
(e)
Notice. Promptly after making his determination, the clerk shall give to the person written notice, to be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-11)
Sec. 82-80. - Penalty for failure to pay tax; interest on unpaid tax.
Any person who fails to pay the tax to the city, or fails to pay any amount of the tax required to be collected and paid to the city, within the time required, shall pay a penalty of 15 percent of the tax or amount of the tax, in addition to the tax or amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax or any portion thereof as set forth in section 82-79(c).
(Code 1982, § 3-5-12)
Sec. 82-81. - Authority to require deposit of security; sale of security.
(a)
The clerk, whenever he deems it necessary to ensure compliance with this article, may require any person subject thereto to deposit with him such security as the clerk may determine. The amount of the security shall be fixed by the clerk, but shall not be greater than twice the person's estimated average liability for the period for which he files returns, determined in such a manner as the clerk deems proper, or $10,000.00, whichever amount is the lesser.
(b)
The amount of the security may be increased by the clerk subject to the limitations provided in this section. The clerk may sell the security at public auction, with the approval of the mayor and council, if it becomes necessary to do so in order to recover any tax or any amount required to be collected, interest or penalty due. Notice of the sale may be served upon the person who deposited the security personally or by mail. If served by mail, service shall be made in the manner prescribed for service of a notice of a deficiency determination and shall be addressed to the person at his address as it appears in the records of the clerk. Upon any sale, any surplus above the amount due shall be returned to the person who deposited the security.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-13(a))
Sec. 82-82. - Legal action to collect tax.
At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the clerk may bring an action in the courts of this state, of any other state or of the United States, in the name of the city, to collect the amount delinquent, together with penalties and interest, court fees, filing fees, attorneys' fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-13(b))
Sec. 82-83. - Duty of successor of operator to withhold tax from purchase price.
If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold the tax from the purchase price as required, he becomes personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him, to the extent of the purchase price, valued in money. Within 30 days after receiving a written request from the purchaser for a certificate, the clerk shall either issue the certificate or mail notice to the purchaser at his address as it appears on the records of the clerk of the amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate. The time within which the obligation of a successor may be enforced shall start to run at the time the operator sells out his business or at the time that the determination against the operator becomes final, whichever event occurs later.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-13(c))
Sec. 82-84. - Credit for tax erroneously paid.
Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city under this article, it may be offset as provided in section 82-78(c). If the operator or other person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the clerk, he will have three years from the date of payment to file a claim in writing stating the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the clerk, the excess amount paid the city may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid, or his administrators or executors.
(Code 1982, § 3-5-13(d))
