ARTICLE XIII. - NON-BEVERAGE ALCOHOL MANUFACTURERS AND IMPORTERS

Sec. 6-261. - Alcohol, license required, inspection, records.
(a)
Manufacture or importation of ethyl alcohol to be used exclusively for the uses enumerated herein is necessary and appropriate to ensure that ethyl alcohol manufactured or imported for the stated purposes is not directed to use as a beverage, or as a distilled spirit in contravention of law and evasion of federal, state and local excise taxes and license fees. Enumerated purposes are:
(1)
Non-beverage scientific;
(2)
Chemical;
(3)
Mechanical;
(4)
Industrial;
(5)
Medicinal; or
(6)
Culinary purposes.
(b)
Every person, firm corporation or organization who desires to manufacture or import non-beverage ethyl alcohol exclusively for any of the uses enumerated in subsection (a) above, shall first obtain a license by completing an application form, in duplicate, for a non-beverage distillery, manufacturer or importer license on forms furnished by the finance director. Each application for a non-beverage manufacturer's, distiller's, or importer's license shall also include, in duplicate, the following:
(1)
A personnel statement and a set of fingerprint cards, as prescribed by the finance director, for each owner or owners and all principal employees such as manager, foreman, superintendent, etc.
(2)
An accurate and precise description of the exact location where any non-beverage manufacturing or importing facility is to be located.
(3)
A copy of a valid operating permit or other proper authorization issued to the applicant by the U.S. Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau.
(c)
When all of the requirements of subsection (b) of this section and all other legal requirements are met, licenses for the non-beverage manufacture or importation of ethyl alcohol solely for non-beverage use shall be issued by the finance director. Each applicant for a non-beverage alcohol manufacturer's license shall pay a license fee in an amount as established by action of the city council. A copy of the license shall remain on file in the office of the finance director.
(d)
Any non-beverage alcohol license issued by the finance director shall be renewed annually. Unless renewed, each license shall become void on December 31 of the calendar year in which such licenses are issued; however, the city manager may authorize licensees who have filed an application for license renewal to operate until the license has been renewed or denied.
(e)
Each non-beverage manufacturing or importing facility issued a non-beverage alcohol license pursuant to this article shall be subject to inspection by federal, state and local law enforcement officers at all times.
(f)
Each licensee shall maintain all invoices, bills of lading, reports, books, papers, or documents of whatever nature involving all transactions relating to the purchase, sale, distribution, storage, manufacture, importation or handling of ethyl alcohol in any manner.
(g)
Each licensee manufacturing or importing ethyl alcohol for use as fuel shall be properly registered with the motor fuel tax section of the Georgia Department of Revenue.
(h)
Licenses may be denied by the finance director to any applicant who has been convicted of any crime involving the illegal sale or manufacture of alcoholic beverages.
(i)
The failure of any person, firm, corporation, or organization holding such license under this article to meet any obligations imposed by any tax laws of the City of Chamblee or to otherwise comply with any requirements of the law shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the license.
(Ord. No. 639, pt. I, 11-15-11; Ord. No. 801 , pt. XXXIX, 9-21-21)
Sec. 6-262. - Investigatory and administrative fee.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by payment for the full amount of the license fee, together with payment in an amount as may be required by the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant withdraws the application prior to its being issued, the license fee shall be refunded, but the investigative and administrative fees shall be retained. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the license fee shall not be refunded to any applicant that sold, or offered to sell, alcoholic beverages during the license year at issue.
(Ord. No. 639, pt. I, 11-15-11; Ord. No. 692 , pt. VIII, 11-17-15; Ord. No. 801 , pt. XL, 9-21-21)
Secs. 6-263—6-274. - Reserved.
