ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Records management plan.
The board of commissioners authorizes and adopts the following records management plan; that the records manager is hereby designated as the coordinator of the records management plan and authorized to act for and on behalf of the board of commissioners in directing and coordinating all records management matters under the Georgia Records Act; and records retention schedules approved by the board of commissioners shall be documented in the record of the governing body deliberations; and
Records shall be maintained in accordance with approved retention schedules; and
No record shall be destroyed except as authorized by a state records committee approved retention schedule.
(Res. of 11-26-96)
Sec. 2-2. - Agents designated.
The board of commissioners shall designate the code enforcement director as the chief agent, and the persons assigned and fulfilling the positions thereunder as code enforcement officers, manufactured home inspectors, building inspectors and animal control officers as agents for the purposes of completing, signing, issuing and serving citations as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60 et seq.
(Res. of 7-13-99)
Sec. 2-3. - Permanent courthouse annex and satellite courtroom established.
The Board of Commissioners hereby designates, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-6-17, the new Carroll County Court House located at 311 Newnan Street, Carrollton, Georgia as the regular county site or courthouse for superior and state courts effective February 1, 2012. In addition, the board of commissioners designates the new Carroll County Court House as the regular county site for its juvenile and probate courts. Finally, the board of commissioners designates the Quick Start Building, Independence Drive, Carrollton, Georgia as the regular county site for its Magistrate Court.
The board of commissioners hereby designates, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-6-18, the following additional alternative facilities as permanent satellite courtrooms:
(1)
Jack T. Bell Detention Center Courtroom
1000 Newnan Road
Carrollton, Georgia 30117
(2)
Historic Carroll County Court House
323 Newnan Street
Carrollton, Georgia 30117
(3)
Quick Start Building
Independence Drive
Carrollton, Georgia 30117
(4)
OLD Commission Chambers
David Perry County Administrative Building
423 College Street
Carrollton, Georgia 30117
(5)
Room 501
David Perry County Administrative Building
423 College Street
Carrollton, Georgia 30117
(6)
City of Carrollton Municipal Courtroom
115 West Center Street
Carrollton, Georgia 30117
(7)
Carrollton Cultural Arts Center
251 Alabama Street
Carrollton, Georgia 30117
The judges of the superior, state, juvenile, probate and magistrate courts may hold sessions of superior, state, juvenile and probate courts and conduct all other business at the permanent satellite courtroom facilities or at the regular county site or court house located at 311 Newnan Street, Carrollton, Georgia. All actions taken by a superior court judge at the Jack T. Bell Detention Center Courtroom shall be fully valid and binding as though taken and performed at the courthouse located in the new Carroll County Court House on Newnan Street in Carrollton.
(Ord. of 7-10-01, § 1; Res. of 6-19-07, §§ 1, 2; Res. of 11-1-11, §§ 1—3)
Sec. 2-4. - Chairman of board of commissioners—Authority to distribute, sell and license access to the geographic information system.
(a)
The board of commissioners hereby authorizes the chairman to distribute, sell, and license access to the geographic information system through a contract as provided under O.C.G.A. § 50-29-2. The board of commissioners further authorizes the chairman to execute a contract with any person to accomplish the purpose set forth in the preceding sentence. The contract shall be in substantially the form attached to the resolution from which this section is derived as exhibit A, subject to such minor changes, insertions or deletions as the chairman of the board of commissioners may approve. Further, the board of commissioners hereby authorizes the chairman to share GIS data with non-profit entities and other public agencies that he deems, in his discretion, will provide sufficient benefits to the citizens of the county. Furthermore, the board of commissioners hereby authorizes the chief appraiser, as supervisor of the geographic information system and special designee of the chairman for this purpose, to execute the contract with such minor changes, insertions or deletions, and otherwise to perform all acts necessary to accomplish the intent of this section.
(b)
The board of commissioners finds that it is necessary to establish a reasonable fee structure to defray the cost of the actual development cost of creating or providing and updating the geographic information system. Based upon the recommendation of the chief appraiser, the board of commissioners hereby establishes the fee schedule as set forth in exhibit B attached to the resolution from which this section is derived.
(Res. of 10-7-03, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— Res. of Oct. 7, 2003, §§ 1, 2, did not specifically amend the Code. Hence, its inclusion herein as section 2-4 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 2-5. - Adoption of county Title VI plan.
The board of commissioners hereby ordains the county Title VI plan as shown in Exhibit "1" to a resolution of September 4, 2012, be adopted. The action shall not revive any ordinances or resolutions in force before or at the time the plan took effect, nor shall the plan affect any punishment, penalty, suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of adoption. The chairman or his designee shall have authority to update and maintain the plan accordingly.
(Res. of 9-4-12, § 1)
Editor's note— Exhibit "1" referenced above is not set out herein, but is on file and available for inspection in the office of the county clerk.
Sec. 2-5.1. - Adoption of county ADA transition plan.
The board of commissioners hereby ordains the county ADA transition plan as shown in Exhibit "2" to a resolution of September 4, 2012, be adopted. The action shall not revive any ordinances or resolutions in force before or at the time the plan took effect, nor shall the plan affect any punishment, penalty, suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of adoption. The chairman or his designee shall have authority to update and maintain the plan accordingly.
(Res. of 9-4-12, § 1)
Editor's note— Exhibit "2" referenced above is not set out herein, but is on file and available for inspection in the office of the county clerk.
Cross reference— Service of complaints or orders, § 18-65.
Sec. 2-5.2. - Lease of county property.
It is the desire of the board of commissioners to set forth a policy regarding the lease of any county property as follows:
(1)
The county from time to time may have building or land space which would benefit the public by leasing the same to an outside entity. It shall be the policy of the board of commissioners that any lease agreement for any county building or land space be subject to the approval of the board of commissioners whether for monetary remuneration or other consideration.
(2)
It shall further be the policy of the board of commissioners that any lease of any county property should be a net gain to the county tax payers and should be set forth in writing with its terms and conditions approved by the county attorney prior to presentation of the same to the board of commissioners for consideration.
(3)
Finally, it shall be the policy of the board of commissioners that the county clerk maintain a master list of such leases and that the board of commissioners review its leases on an annual basis prior to any renewals.
(Policy of 5-7-13)
