Chapter 70 - PERSONNEL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The county's civil service rules and regulations, fire rescue administrative policy, employees retirement plan, and drug and alcohol policy are compiled and published separately by the county. Official copies of such regulations and documents are on file in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Related laws reference—Civil service system, art. III.
State Law reference— Expenditure of county funds for insurance and employment benefits, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11-1; employment of additional temporary personnel and equipment for assistance of county officers or departments, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11; civil service system for county employees authorized, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec 2, par. 1; O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21; fair Employment Practices Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.; random drug testing of employees in high-risk jobs, O.C.G.A. § 45-20-90 et seq.; municipal or county governments not to require residence as condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5; public employee hazardous chemical protection and right to know Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 45-22-1 et seq.; drug-free Public Work Force Act of 1990, O.C.G.A. § 45-23-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 70-1. - Provisions saved from repeal.
The ordinance excluding from social security coverage employees earning less than $100.00 in a calendar year for services provided as election officials and poll workers is not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect pending a revision of the subject matter by the county.
Secs. 70-2—70-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WORKERS' COMPENSATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Workers' compensation, O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1 et seq.

Sec. 70-31. - Certain officials covered; generally.
Certain elected officials of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their elected duties, the board of commissioners, sheriff, probate judge, clerk of court, magistrate judge, tax commissioner and coroner shall be covered under the state workers' compensation laws. Additionally, elected members of the governing authority of the county shall be covered under the workers' compensation laws of the state.
(Res. of 10-4-05)
Sec. 70-32. - Volunteer firefighters covered while on duty.
Volunteer firefighters of the county shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their duties, they shall be covered under the workers' compensation laws of the state. Such coverage shall only extend to volunteer firefighting services rendered to the county.
Sec. 70-33. - Law enforcement personnel covered on duty.
Volunteer county law enforcement personnel who are certified by the state peace officers standards and training council shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their duties, they shall be covered under the workers' compensation laws of the state.
Sec. 70-34. - Volunteer rescue workers covered on duty.
Volunteer members or workers of an emergency management or civil defense organization, emergency medical service or rescue organization of the county, and volunteer first responders shall be covered under the Association of County Commissioners of Georgia Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their duties, they shall be covered under the state workers' compensation laws. Such coverage shall extend only to such volunteer services as are rendered and which are not prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-36.
(Res. of 10-4-05)
