ARTICLE IV. - CORONER[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2924 relating to the salary and funding for the county coroner. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Abolishment of fee system of compensation.
The present mode of compensating the Coroner of Carroll County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
Section 2. - Salary; expense allowance.
The coroner of Carroll County shall receive an annual salary of $15,000.00, payable monthly from county funds. The coroner shall also receive an expense allowance of $100.00 per month, payable monthly from county funds under such conditions as the county governing authority may provide.
(1976 Ga. Laws, page 3135; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 3328; 1981 Ga. Laws, page 4232; 1984 Ga. Laws, page 3871; 1997 Ga. Laws, page 3716)
Editor's note— At a meeting held June 13, 1995, the board of commissioners voted to increase the expense allowance of the coroner from $100.00 per month to $200.00 per month. At a meeting held August 8, 1995, the board of commissioners voted to supplement the salary of the coroner by increasing it to $750.00 per month.
Section 3. - Fees.
After the effective date of this Act, said coroner shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the coroner shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
Section 4. - Expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of the coroner's office shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, and equipment, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Carroll County.
