ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - General procedures.
Any action of the mayor and council having a regulatory or penal effect or required to be done by ordinance under the city Charter shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least three members of the council shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk. No ordinance shall be approved until it shall have been read at two consecutive meetings not less than seven days apart unless this "two readings" provision is waived by a majority vote of the council and the reason for such waiver is recorded in the official minutes of the meeting.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 2-201; Ord. No. 95-03, 3-6-1995)
Sec. 2-2. - Effective date.
Except as otherwise provided by any ordinance or state law:
(1)
All ordinances and resolutions approved in writing by the mayor shall be effective immediately after passage thereof.
(2)
All ordinances and resolutions vetoed by the mayor shall be effective upon the final passage thereof as prescribed in section 2.30 of the city Charter.
(3)
All ordinances and resolutions, which are neither vetoed nor approved in writing by the mayor, shall be effective three days after passage thereof.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 2-202)
Sec. 2-3. - Official copy.
A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the mayor and council, signed by the mayor, and attested to by the city clerk, shall be known as an official copy of any ordinance of the city.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 2-203)
Sec. 2-4. - Availability to public.
The public may request copies of any and all ordinances and resolutions of the city. The city may require up to three business days to furnish the copies and shall charge, per page, an amount set in the fee schedule kept and maintained by the clerk for uncertified and certified copies.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 2-204)
Sec. 2-5. - Reports.
The city manager shall have the power to require reports from all officers and employees of the city, as he may deem necessary to carry out his administrative responsibilities.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 2-401)
Sec. 2-6. - Contracts; bonds.
The city manager shall make and execute contracts as provided in section 3.10(b) of the city Charter. The city manager shall also be authorized to sign the bonds of the city.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 2-402)
Sec. 2-7. - Temporary loans.
The mayor may obtain short-term loans in the name of the city when approved by council. Any such indebtedness shall be payable solely from the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a specific designated source, unless there is a prior appropriation out of which such indebtedness could be paid. (See section 6.20 of the city Charter.)
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 2-403)
Sec. 2-8. - Mayor pro tem.
Except where otherwise provided by law, the mayor pro tem shall perform the duties and functions of the mayor provided for in this Code during the absence or disability of the mayor. In the event the mayor and mayor pro tem shall fail or are unable to act, any person specifically designated by the mayor and council may act in their stead. (See section 2.29 of the city Charter.)
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 2-404)
Sec. 2-9. - Assistant police chief.
The police chief of the city shall have the authority to appoint any qualified police officer under his command to serve as the assistant police chief. Such appointment shall be confirmed by a majority vote of the mayor and council. Said assistant police chief shall assume all responsibilities and powers of the police chief during the absence or disability of the police chief.
(Comp. Ords. 2005, § 2-405)
Secs. 2-10—2-36. - Reserved.
