ARTICLE 2. - PURPOSE

Sec. 2.1. - [Purpose.]
The purpose of this appendix is to establish minimum standards for the use of land and improvements in the City of Luthersville, Georgia. The zoning regulations and districts herein established are designed to:
A.
Lessen congestion in the streets;
B.
Provide safety from fire, panic, and other dangers;
C.
Promote health, safety, and general welfare;
D.
Provide adequate light and air;
E.
Preserve the city's water resources;
F.
Avoid undue concentration of the population;
G.
Provide transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements, as needed;
H.
Conserve the value of economy;
I.
Encourage the most appropriate use of land and structures;
J.
Promote quality of life for all citizens;
K.
Provide consistency with land use element of the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, ยง 2.1, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 2.2. - [Minimum requirements.]
The requirements of these regulations are minimum permissible standards; and it is expected that developers and the respective decision making authority will normally strive for quality developments that will exceed these minimum requirements.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, ยง 2.2, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 2.3. - [Comprehensive plan.]
By this section, the comprehensive plan adopted by resolution of the city council of the City of Luthersville is established as the official policy of the city concerning land uses. The incorporated areas of the city are divided into land use categories consistent with the future land use plan in the land use element of the comprehensive plan. The comprehensive plan does not alter or affect the existing zoning districts in the city, does not effectuate an amendment to the official zoning maps, and does not itself permit or prohibit any existing land uses. The land use element of the comprehensive plan shall be amended on an annual basis to reflect changes in land use and to discover any inconsistencies zoning changes have caused in the future land use map.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, ยง 2.3, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 2.4. - [Land use element.]
The land use element of the comprehensive plan shall be updated once each year. This update shall be used to identify current uses of land, emerging growth patterns and any significant change in land use policy as identified by the future land use map of the comprehensive plan. This update shall also be used as policy in the city's consideration of proposed amendments to the zoning map or text of the zoning ordinance. All amendments to the City of Luthersville Comprehensive Plan shall be in accordance with the minimum planning standards and procedures of the Georgia Planning Act.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, ยง 2.4, 4-10-2001)
