Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; authority to adopt rules and regulations relating to manufacture, sale and distribution of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-49.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - General restriction.
(a)
It will be unlawful in any convenience store, grocery store or any other establishment, for the proprietor, owner or operator to allow anyone under the age of 19 years to sell beer, wine or malt beverages.
(b)
Any violation of this section shall carry a fine of $500.00.
(Ord. of 7-16-1990)
Sec. 4-2. - Business hours.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter as a retail dealer or person employed by a retail dealer to sell, offer for sale, transfer or offer to transfer to others any packaged distilled spirits, malt beverages or wine except during the following hours:
(1)
Monday through Saturday, 8:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight.
(2)
Sunday, 12:30 p.m. until 11:30 p.m.
(b)
No sales may occur on Christmas Day.
(c)
Sales on election days. Pursuant to the delegation of authority granted to this governing authority by Act No. 750 (House Bill No. 247) effective July 1, 1985, amending O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20(b)(2)(B), the sale by wholesale and retail of alcoholic beverages, to wit: distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages, shall be lawful during the polling hours of any election; provided, however, nothing herein shall authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages within 250 feet of a polling place during such time as the polls are opened.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for retail consumption dealers to sell, dispense, or deliver alcoholic beverages to any customer except during the following hours:
(1)
Monday through Saturday, 10:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight.
(2)
On Sunday, no sales can occur.
(Ord. of 7-16-1990; Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 6, 6-4-1996; Ord. No. 2012-01, § 1, 3-13-2012)
Secs. 4-3—4-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MALT BEVERAGES

Sec. 4-23. - Hours of sale.
(a)
No malt beverages or wines shall be sold, or in any manner dispensed, delivered, or given away to any person from 2:00 a.m. until 7:00 a.m. the following day during the week, and from 12:00 midnight on Saturday until 7:00 a.m. the following Monday.
(b)
Any violation of this section will carry a fine of $500.00 and/or suspension or revocation of the beer and wine license.
(Ord. of 6-2-1982(2))
Secs. 4-24—4-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SALES BY THE DRINK

Sec. 4-50. - Sale in poolrooms and billiard parlors; minors prohibited if sold.
It shall be unlawful in any poolroom or billiard parlor or game room where beer, wine or malt beverages are sold for the proprietor or operator to allow anyone under the age allowed by state law to patronize such business establishment.
(Ord. of 6-2-1982)
Secs. 4-51—4-76. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - LICENSES FOR SALE OF BEER AND WINE CONSUMPTION

Sec. 4-77. - Generally.
(a)
The purpose of this article is to establish the regulation and taxation of the wholesale and retail sale of beer and wine and for consumption on the premises. Sale of beer and wine for consumption purposes on-premises under this article shall only occur in a restaurant or food establishment wherein 50 percent of the gross revenues result from the sale of food.
(b)
For the purposes of this article, this article incorporates by reference the following:
(1)
The statutes set forth in O.C.G.A. title 3 regarding alcoholic beverage regulation and those pertaining to beer and wine including taxes as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 3-6-60 and 3-5-80 as ordinances of the city. All regulatory and prosecutorial powers granted the commissioner in O.C.G.A. title 3 are hereby granted to the mayor, police chief and other approved officers of the city; and
(2)
All laws and regulations of the federal and state government regarding the regulation of beer and wine.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 1, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-78. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Beer means any fermented beverage made in whole or in part from malt, and any similar fermented beverage.
Brewer means any person who manufactures malt beverages.
Good moral character means a person who has not been convicted of a sex-related crime, or convicted of an attempt to commit such offense, or convicted in any state of any offense which if committed or attempted in the state, would have been punished as a sex-related crime, in the past ten years.
License means the authorization by the city council of the city to engage in the sale of malt beverages or beer or wine in the city in one of the following classes:
(1)
Class A license (retail package store). A Class A license shall authorize the retail dealer to sell malt beverages or beer or wine in the package only and not for consumption on the premises.
(2)
Class B license (on-premises consumption). A Class B license shall authorize the retailer to sell malt beverages or beer or wine for consumption with the purchased meal on the premises, but the Class B license shall be issued only to a commercial undertaking in the city engaged predominantly in the business of food service (that is, the business offers menu service of at least two meals per day, five days per week) and the premises has a seating capacity of not less than 40 patrons. The mayor and council will inspect to ensure that the facility has a fully equipped and operable kitchen. Therefore, the use of prepared foods and the use of a microwave oven to prepare such foods shall not be allowed.
(3)
Class C license (wholesale). A Class C license shall authorize the sale by any person, firm or corporation of malt beverages or beer or wine to a licensed retail dealer for the purpose of resale only.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, also known as Japanese rice wine.
Meal means the serving of short-order food (e.g., hot dogs, hamburgers, sandwiches and the like) only will not qualify as a meal as used in this article.
Retailer or retail dealer means, except as to distilled spirits, any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail only to consumers and not for resale. With respect to distilled spirits, the term "retailer" or "retail dealer" shall have the same meaning as the term "retail package liquor store" as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 2, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-79. - Wholesaler delivery hours.
It shall be unlawful for a wholesale malt beverage, beer or wine dealer to make deliveries of malt beverages, beer or wine before 6:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 7, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-80. - Delivery vehicle ownership; transportation method restricted.
The transportation or delivery of malt beverages, beer or wine for resale within the city shall be by a conveyance owned and operated by a licensed wholesale dealer of malt beverages, beer or wine, licensed to make deliveries in the city, and it shall be unlawful to transport or deliver malt beverages, beer or wine by any other means.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 8, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-81. - Confiscation of illegally distributed beverages; punishment of violator.
All malt beverages, beer or wine offered for sale in the city by a distributor not licensed to make deliveries in the city shall be confiscated; and in addition, the distributor shall be deemed guilty of a crime against the city, and upon conviction thereof in the municipal court, may be punished to the full extent of the law.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 9, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-82. - Storage of beverages; inspection.
Malt beverages, beer or wine received within the city by a wholesale or retail licensee shall be stored only in the premises for which a license is issued and shall be subject to inspection at all times.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 10, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-83. - Permit and license tax payment; prerequisite to doing business.
It shall be lawful to sell malt beverages, beer or wine at retail or wholesale in the city only after the proper permit has been applied for and issued by the city and upon the payment of the proper city license or business tax designated for the business.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 12, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-84. - Sale without permit prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any malt beverage, beer, or wine unless he has secured the permit required in this article.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 13, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-85. - Conditions of permit embraced in article.
Any person granted a permit to sell malt beverages, beer or wine in the city may carry on the business only under the conditions and restrictions of this article, which are conditions under which such permits are issued.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 14, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-86. - Display of permit.
The permit issued under this article shall be posted in a conspicuous place in full view of the public.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 15, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-87. - Transfer permit.
It shall be unlawful for any person possessing a permit to carry on a business under this article at a particular address, to move the business under this article at a particular address, to move the business to some other address without first obtaining a permit for such removal signed by the city clerk, who shall, in any case of doubt, refer the matter to the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 16, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-88. - Council authority and action.
It shall be the duty of council to pass on all applications for permits under this article, and where any person to whom council may grant a license or permit violates the terms of this article or for any reason it becomes necessary to revoke the permit, council shall have the power and it shall be the duty of the council to revoke the permit. Council may fix its own rules and regulations regarding the consideration and passage of such application.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 17, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-89. - Retail licensee; qualifications.
(a)
The holder of any retail license to sell malt beverages, beer or wine in the city must be a person of good moral character and a citizen of the United States.
(b)
Any licensee hereunder shall not have been convicted, within a period of ten years of the date of his application, of a felony or any violation of the laws of the state or any other state, or the laws of the city or any other city of the state relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages, wines, or malt beverages.
(c)
The licensee shall be responsible for the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted.
(d)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of his qualifications in accordance with the provisions of this article and shall place the same on file with the clerk of the city before any license is issued.
(e)
No person shall be granted a license to engage in the sale of malt beverages, beer or wine at retail unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the city council that such person is of good moral character.
(f)
Any material misstatement of fact or omission or concealment of fact in the application shall be grounds for the revocation of the license issued, and the applicant shall be liable for prosecution for perjury under the laws of the state.
(g)
The city shall make such investigation of the qualifications of each applicant as it may deem necessary.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 18, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-90. - Contents of application.
Any person desiring to carry on the business of selling or manufacturing malt beverages, beer or wine shall file an application with the city clerk, stating his name, or if a firm or association, the name of its officers, address, the address where he intends to carry on the business, his length of residence in the city, and references he may care to give, and the type of permit or license the applicant desires. He shall deposit with the application the amount of the permit or license tax designated for the license for which the application is made. The applicant must be fingerprinted by police, and waiters and/or waitresses must receive a permit from the police department before they can serve beer or wine.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 19, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-91. - Processing application.
Upon the filing of the application, it shall be the duty of the city clerk to turn same over to the mayor and council for investigation of the facts as set out in the application, and determine whether the person shall be granted a permit to carry on the business. If council comes to the conclusion that it will not be for the best interests of the social, moral or business life of the city to grant the permit or that the character or reputation of the person or group applying is such that it would not be in the best interest of the city to grant a permit, or for any reason within its knowledge and in its discretion, the council shall mark on the application the term "disapproved," which application so marked shall be returned to the clerk with the instructions not to grant said permit. If, however, the council decides to grant the permit it shall mark on the application the term "approved" and return it to the clerk who shall immediately issue the permit.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 20, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-92. - Revocation with cause; appeal.
All permits issued by the city clerk under this article shall be subject to revocation at any time by the council, with cause.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 21, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-93. - Permit reinstatement.
Whenever a permit is revoked for any reason, a two-thirds vote of the council at a regular meeting, or a meeting properly called by the mayor, shall be necessary before the reissuance or reinstatement of a permit.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 22, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-94. - License tax; period.
There is imposed a license or business tax upon all persons dealing in malt beverages, beer or wine in the city, said license or business tax to be exclusive of and in addition to any other tax or license such person may be required to pay. The license tax shall be paid upon the filing of the application for a permit as provided for in this article and the license or business tax shall be due annually on January 1.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 23, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-95. - License and permit nontransferable; issuance to new licensee.
Permits and licenses issued pursuant to this article may not be transferred from one person or firm to another. The appropriate committee of city council may, upon application, issue another permit and license to a successor in the same business establishment upon proper proof of a bona fide transfer of the business.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 24, 6-4-1996)
Sec. 4-96. - License fees.
(a)
The applicant for a license to sell malt beverages, beer or wine within the city shall pay an annual license fee in an amount as fixed from time to time by the city council.
(b)
If the license is issued during the last six months of a license year, one-half of the license amount shall be paid as the license fee for such half-year.
(Ord. No. 96-06-04, § 25, 6-4-1996)
