ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Elections superintendent.
The city clerk is hereby appointed and shall serve as municipal superintendent of elections held by the city and shall have all powers enumerated for such municipal superintendents in O.C.G.A. § 2-226.
(Code 1977, § 2-1; Ord. No. O-2019-67 , § 1, 12-3-19)
Cross reference— Sale of alcoholic beverages during elections, § 10-7.
Sec. 2-2. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-2019-67 , § 2, adopted Dec. 3, 2019, repealed § 2-2, which pertained to chief registrar and derived from Code 1977, § 2-2.
Sec. 2-3. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-2019-67 , § 2, adopted Dec. 3, 2019, repealed § 2-3, which pertained to use by city of county registration lists; registration of electors by registrar; duties of registrar and derived from Code 1977, § 2-2.1.
Sec. 2-4. - Books of accounts to be kept.
Complete and accurate books of accounts of the city shall be kept by the city finance director.
(Code 1977, § 2-3; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 1, 6-21-99)
Sec. 2-5. - Receipt of money; credit card payments.
(a)
Generally. All money and checks payable to the city shall be received by the city finance director, who shall, immediately upon receipt thereof, enter the same into the proper book or record of account. The city finance director shall serve as clerk to the board of tax assessors, shall mail and deliver all tax and license fee notices to the persons liable for the payment therefor, shall issue all tax fi. fas. on delinquent taxes, shall receive all fines and forfeitures from the municipal court.
(b)
Acceptance of credit card payments.
(1)
Acceptance authorized. Any and all departments of the city are authorized but not required to accept any sums due the city including, but not limited to, ad valorem taxes, occupation taxes, fines, forfeitures, penalties, license fees, permit fees and registration fees, to be paid by the use of credit cards, including debit cards. The city finance director, with the approval of the city manager, shall establish the procedures for acceptance of credit card payments for amounts due the city. The council may authorize the mayor to enter into agreements with financial institutions and credit card issuers to facilitate the acceptance of credit card payments by the city.
(2)
Administrative fees. A credit card agreement may provide for the acceptance of the credit card payments from the credit card company and financial institution at a discount from the face amount of the payment or for the withholding of administrative fees, by the credit card company and financial institution, from the face amount of the payment. Such discounted fee is granted in exchange for the improved governmental cash flow, reduction of city administrative expenses and increased public convenience as a result of credit card payments.
(3)
Surcharge. A surcharge equal to the administrative fees charged by the credit card issuer to the city shall be imposed upon any person making a payment by credit card, when such surcharges are permitted by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card issuer.
(4)
Cancellation of agreement. Any agreement with a credit card issuer or financial institution for the acceptance of payments via credit shall contain a provision that the agreement may be canceled at any time by the city.
(5)
Liability for payments not received. No person making payment by credit card to the city is relieved from liability for the underlying obligation except to the extent that the city actually receives final payment of the obligation in cash or its equivalent. If final payment is not made by the credit card issuer or other guarantor of payment in the credit card transaction, the underlying obligation for the money due is not extinguished. All applicable penalties, interest and collection fees on the unpaid amount shall be due from the person making the payment by credit card. Such penalties, interest and fees on an unpaid amount shall accrue from the date the unpaid obligation was first due under the applicable statute or ordinance. The city shall follow the collection procedures for the unpaid amount that would have otherwise been applicable had the credit card payment not been attempted.
(Code 1977, § 2-4; Ord. No. O-96-49, § 1, 10-7-96; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 2, 6-21-99)
Sec. 2-6. - Disbursement of money.
All money disbursed by the city in any amount more than $100.00 shall be by check drawn upon the proper account and entered in the proper book by the city finance director. All checks shall be signed and countersigned by two of the following: the mayor, the city manager, and the finance director. Exceptionally, the chief of police is authorized to serve as one of the two city signatories for any check expending confiscated assets funds. Notwithstanding the above requirements, the council may approve contracts authorizing individuals to sign or endorse checks, drafts, instruments, and orders payable to the city, and to waive presentment, demand, protest, and notice of protest or dishonor of any checks, instruments, drafts or other evidences of indebtedness.
(Code 1977, § 2-5; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 3, 6-21-99; Ord. No. O-04-28, § 1, 7-6-04; Ord. No. O-06-17, § 1, 6-19-06)
Sec. 2-7. - Separate accounts.
The funds of the city shall be deposited in the official city depository, in a general fund or in such other special and separate accounts as may be authorized by the mayor and council. It shall be the duty of the city finance director to deposit such funds in the proper accounts upon the receipt thereof.
(Code 1977, § 2-6; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 3, 6-21-99)
Sec. 2-8. - Contracts.
All contracts to which the city is a party shall be in writing. When authorized to do so by the council, the mayor may sign any contract on behalf of the city, and the same shall be attested to by the clerk and such authorization by the council shall be spread upon the minutes of the council. The city manager shall have limited concurrent authority to sign contracts on behalf of the city as provided in section 2-154, without further authorization from the council. The finance director and the accounting manager shall have limited concurrent authority to sign banking contracts on behalf of the city as provided in Charter section 6.30 without further authorization from the council.
(Code 1977, § 2-7; Ord. No. O-98-37, § 1, 4-20-98; Ord. No. O-2019-41 , § 1, 8-5-19)
Sec. 2-9. - Bill of accounts.
All bills of accounts for materials used in the regular course of business by the city shall be paid by the city finance director out of the general funds of the city; provided that all bills of accounts in excess of $1,000.00 shall have the prior approval of the mayor and council before such payment is made.
(Code 1977, § 2-8; Ord. No. O-99-19, § 4, 6-21-99)
Sec. 2-10. - Supervision and control of public property.
The mayor and council shall have the general supervision and control of all property owned by or under the control of the city. The city manager shall, consistent with the official actions of the mayor and council, administer the day to day management of all city property, including but not limited to any real property, personal property, licenses, franchises and contractual rights held by the city. Except as expressly approved in advance by the city manager or by the mayor and council, no individual councilmember, by virtue of his office, shall:
(1)
Have franking privileges;
(2)
Make excessive use of any city-owned office equipment;
(3)
Remove any city record from the building where it is housed, nor from its normal place of keeping; or
(4)
Direct use of the government access television channel.
(Code 1977, § 2-9; Ord. No. O-96-41, § 1, 8-19-96)
Sec. 2-11. - Unlawful use of city property—Generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to use, possess, occupy or enter upon any real or personal property of the city when such is restricted or prohibited by ordinance or resolution. Any person violating this section, or any ordinance or resolution adopted under this section, shall be deemed guilty of an offense punishable under section 4.13 of the Charter of the City of Douglasville.
(Code 1977, § 2-10; Ord. No. O-2019-67 , § 3, 12-3-19)
Sec. 2-12. - Same—Personal use of city property.
It shall be unlawful for any officer of the city or other person to use or take from its place of keeping, any of the tools, equipment, motor vehicles, or other personal property or any fixtures, for the purpose of using the same otherwise than provided by the rules of the mayor and council or for the personal use or benefit of such officer or other person.
(Code 1977, § 2-11)
Sec. 2-13. - Penalty for neglect of duty.
Any officer or employee of the city who is guilty of neglect or failure to perform the duties prescribed or required of him by the provisions of this Code or the mayor and council or who shall be guilty of any misconduct in office shall forfeit his right to hold such office and shall be immediately removed from office by the mayor and council, if, after a public hearing of the charges against such officer or employee at such officer's or employee's request, such failure to perform duty, neglect of duty, or misconduct in office is not justified under all of the circumstances of the case. This provision is cumulative and shall not bar any other punishment or penalty provided by this Code, state law or city ordinance.
(Code 1977, § 2-12)
Sec. 2-14. - Police officers to attend sessions of municipal court; exceptions; compensation.
(a)
All police officers that are members of the police department of the City of Douglasville shall attend each session of the municipal court held for the City of Douglasville unless such attendance is excused by the judge or the chief of police.
(b)
Police officers that are on duty during the time the municipal court is in session shall not be required to be in attendance of the court unless their attendance and appearance are necessary for the court to carry out the proceedings before it at that session.
(c)
Each police officer, except the chief of police, the clerk of the municipal court, and police officers on duty during the court session, shall be paid the sum of $20.00 per court session attended by such officer.
(Code 1977, § 2-13)
Charter reference— Recorder's court, art. VI.
Sec. 2-15. - Safety and loss control policy.
(a)
Purpose; appointment of safety officer. The City of Douglasville has a sincere concern for the safety and welfare of its employees as well as the public it serves. The city realizes its obligation, as an employer, and as a government service organization, to provide the safest possible working conditions for employees and to provide a safe environment for the public that uses its services; furthermore, when unnecessary accidents occur, they are an indication of wasteful and inefficient operation. The city believes that most accidents can be prevented. In accordance with that conviction, there is hereby appointed an employee to serve in the capacity of safety officer who shall develop and administer an occupational safety program for city employees.
(b)
Duties of safety officer. The safety officer will:
(1)
Analyze accident causes, cost and other pertinent factors for use in accident prevention.
(2)
Consult with and advise administrative officials and department heads on accident prevention.
(3)
Identify hazardous work locations and practices and recommend corrective actions as they relate to the operation and maintenance of motorized equipment.
(4)
Develop and conduct safety training courses, review and evaluate safety suggestions, plan and administer on-the-job training courses required to meet these needs.
(5)
Organize special classes to train supervisors and other personnel in technical aspects of vehicle operation and maintenance aids for conduct of on-the-job training courses, and maintain current information programs available in local educational institutions.
(6)
Maintain records of training courses completed and prepare suitable certificates or other forms of recognition for employees who satisfactorily complete courses.
(7)
Coordinate all safety and training programs, prepare and maintain records pertaining to accidents, causes, cost and corrective actions taken and issue a report monthly and yearly.
The appointment of a safety officer does not relieve department heads and supervisors of a basic responsibility; that of expanding their management and supervisory practices to incorporate safety engineering principles in all supervisory efforts.
(c)
Responsibility of department heads and supervisors. Department heads and supervisors at all levels of the city work force are directed to make safety a matter of continuing concern, equal in importance to all other operational considerations. They are expected to cooperate with and assist the appointed safety officer to implement the policies of the office; and to develop and administer an effective department safety program. Their responsibility encompasses the adoption of work standards designed to attain the only goal acceptable to management and work force alike; that is, a work environment free of potential hazards or work procedures that may produce injuries and property damage. To reach that goal, management and supervisory personnel must:
(1)
Provide informed leadership and adequate supervision of the city work force;
(2)
Provide adequate job training and continuing safety instructions to all employees;
(3)
Develop reasonable, practical safe job procedures for city operations, and enforce them;
(4)
Secure prompt and adequate medical care to minimize the severity of injuries and safeguard the physical and mental welfare of employees; and
(5)
Continuously review work practices and conditions of the work environment to seek improvement.
(d)
Employee cooperation. All employees are charged with responsibility for cooperation with and support of safety program objectives. All employees are expected, as a condition of employment, to adopt the concept that the safe way to perform a task is the most efficient and only acceptable way to perform it.
(e)
Maintenance of safety records; criterion for performance evaluation. Safety records shall be measured along with all other phases of supervisor and employee performance. It is absolutely essential that such records be complete and accurate and that all accidents be fully reported.
(Code 1977, § 2-14)
Sec. 2-16. - Accessibility review committee of Disabilities Act compliance.
The mayor and council hereby establish an accessibility review committee to review the city's programs, services and facilities for compliance with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act. The committee shall be composed of two citizen members, the human resources director as chairman, the city manager as vice chairman, the building official, the planning manager and the parks and recreation director. The committee shall meet at least once annually in October, and at such other times as determined by the chairman. The committee and shall file a written annual evaluation of such with the mayor and council not later than the December following each annual meeting of the committee.
( Ord. No. O-2020-5 , § 1, 1-21-20)
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-2020-5 , § 1, adopted Jan. 21, 2020, amended § 2-16 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 2-16 pertained to review committee of Disabilities Act compliance and derived from Res. No. R-92-37, adopted June 1, 1992.
Sec. 2-17. - Enforcement of ordinances.
All sworn police officers and all sworn code compliance officers of the City of Douglasville shall have authority to enforce all provisions of the City Code and all other lawful ordinances of the City of Douglasville, and are authorized to issue citations for this purpose. The concurrent enforcement authority of all such officers shall not be construed to be limited by any City Code provision or ordinance which provides for enforcement by the officers of one department or by those of any other department. The mayor and council may provide for enforcement of certain ordinances by other officers of the city by adoption of appropriate policies or job descriptions which include these duties. The mayor and council may provide for enforcement of certain ordinances by other entities by means of contracts.
(Ord. No. O-02-31, § 2, 8-5-02; Ord. No. O-2018-9 , § 1, 3-5-18)
Sec. 2-18. - Appointments to boards and commissions.
All persons, other than other council members, being considered for appointment to any board or commission established by city ordinance shall, prior to appointment, submit to the city clerk such personal and professional background information as shall be required by the mayor and city council. Unless otherwise provided by law, all incumbent appointees to boards and commissions created pursuant to ordinance shall continue to serve after expiration of any term of office until earlier of such time as the appointee has:
(a)
resigned; or
(b)
been removed from office; or
(c)
been replaced by a successor appointee.
(Ord. No. O-07-46, § 1, 8-6-07; Ord. No. O-2017-95 , § 1, 12-18-17)
Sec. 2-19. - Applicants and recipients of public benefits; requirements.
All applicants and recipients of public benefits as defined by O.C.G.A. section 50-36-1 shall, as a condition of such application or receipt, comply with the verification requirements of the Systematic Alien Verification Entitlement Program.
(Ord. No. O-2011-17, § 1, 6-6-11)
Secs. 2-20—2-45. - Reserved.
