Chapter 28 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipalities prohibited from granting franchise for cable television within unincorporated area of county, O.C.G.A. § 36-18-3; avoiding or attempting to avoid charges for use of cable television service, O.C.G.A. § 46-5-2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 28-1—28-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CABLE COMMUNICATIONS

Sec. 28-19. - FCC rate regulations.
(a)
The city will follow the FCC rate regulations in its regulation of the basic service rates and charges of the company and any other cable television system operating in the city, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions in the franchise.
(b)
In connection with such regulation, the city will ensure a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
(c)
The mayor, or his designee, is authorized to execute on behalf of the city and file with the FCC such certification forms or other instruments as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate regulations in order to enable the city to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Res. of 9-13-1993, § 3)
Sec. 28-20. - Franchise fee for state issued cable or video franchise.
The city hereby requires a franchise fee of five percent of gross revenues generated within the city of any cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the state.
(Ord. of 1-7-2008, § 1)
State Law reference— Franchise fee, O.C.G.A. § 36-76-6; cable and video franchise, O.C.G.A. § 36-76-3.
Sec. 28-21. - Authorized designee.
The city hereby authorizes the mayor upon receipt of notice to the city of its right to designate a franchise fee for an applicant for or holder of an existing state franchise, to provide written notice to the secretary of state and each applicant for or holder of a state franchise within a service area that is wholly or partially located within the city limits of the five percent franchise fee rate applicable to such applicant or holder of a state franchise.
(Ord. of 1-7-2008, § 2)
