Chapter 24 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— City has power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4); municipal street systems generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; obstructing sidewalks or other public passages, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-43; damaging public property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; obstructions in street, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10; municipal authority to regulate streets, alleys and sidewalks, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 24-1—24-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARADES

Sec. 24-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Parade means any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession of any kind, or any similar display, in or upon any street, sidewalk, park or other public place in the city.
Parade permit means a permit as required by this article.
Person means any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 2)
Sec. 24-20. - Exceptions from article.
This article shall not apply to:
(1)
Funeral processions;
(2)
Students going to and from school classes or participating in educational activities, provided such conduct is under immediate direction and supervision of the proper school authorities; or
(3)
A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 3)
Sec. 24-21. - Public conduct during parades.
(a)
Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede, or interfere with any parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal participating or used in a parade.
(b)
Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
(c)
Parking on parade route. The mayor shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. The mayor shall post signs to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for parking on a street unposted in violation of this article.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 4)
Sec. 24-22. - Permit required.
No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any parade, unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the mayor.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 5)
Sec. 24-23. - Application for permit.
(a)
Generally. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with the mayor on forms provided by him.
(b)
Filing period. An application for a parade permit shall be filed with the mayor not less than 30 days before the date on which it is proposed that the parade be conducted.
(c)
Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following information:
(1)
The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to conduct such parade;
(2)
If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by an organization; the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the organization; and the authorized and responsible heads of such organization;
(3)
If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for, any person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file with mayor a communication in writing from the person proposing to hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his behalf;
(4)
The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
(5)
The date when the parade is to be conducted;
(6)
The hours when such parade will start and terminate;
(7)
The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination point;
(8)
The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will constitute such parade, the type of animals and description of the vehicles;
(9)
A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
(10)
The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade;
(11)
The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at such assembly areas;
(12)
The interval of space to be maintained between units of such parade;
(13)
Any additional information which the mayor shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should issue.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 6)
Sec. 24-24. - Standards for issuance of permit.
The mayor shall issue a permit as provided for hereunder when, from a consideration of the application and from such other information as may otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
(1)
The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of other traffic near the parade route;
(2)
The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the city;
(3)
The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas contiguous thereto;
(4)
The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas;
(5)
The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
(6)
The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
(7)
The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route; and
(8)
The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any product, goods or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private profit.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 7)
Sec. 24-25. - Notice of denial of permit.
The mayor shall act upon the application for parade permit within three days after the filing thereof. If the mayor disapproves the application he shall mail to the applicant within five days after the date upon which the application was filed a notice of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 8)
Sec. 24-26. - Appeal from denial of permit.
Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal in writing the denial of a parade permit to the city council and mayor. Written notice of appeal shall be filed with the city clerk within three days after notice. The city council shall act upon the appeal with 14 days after its receipt.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 9)
Sec. 24-27. - Alternative permit.
The mayor, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be required to tender a permit for a parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within five days after notice of the action of the mayor, file a written notice of acceptance with the mayor. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this article.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 10)
Sec. 24-28. - Copies of permit to be sent to city officers.
Immediately upon the issuance of a parade permit, the mayor shall send a copy thereof to the fire chief.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 11)
Sec. 24-29. - Contents of permit.
Each parade permit shall state the following information:
(1)
Starting time;
(2)
Minimum speed;
(3)
Maximum speed;
(4)
Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the parade;
(5)
The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
(6)
The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
(7)
Such other information as the mayor shall find necessary to the enforcement of this article.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 12)
Sec. 24-30. - Duties of permittee; permit to be carried.
(a)
A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
(b)
The parade chairman or other person heading or leading such activity shall carry the parade permit upon his person during the conduct of the parade.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 13)
Sec. 24-31. - Revocation of permit.
The mayor shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder upon application of the standards for issuance as therein set forth.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 14)
Sec. 24-32. - Indemnity and bond.
(a)
The applicant and any other persons, organizations, forms or corporations on whose behalf the application is made, by filing such application, do represent, stipulate, contract and agree that they will jointly and severally indemnify and hold the city harmless against liability for any and all claims for damage to property, or injury to, or death of persons arising out of or resulting from the issuance of the permit or the conduct of the parade or its participants.
(b)
In addition, no parade permits shall be issued unless the applicant therefor shall post with the mayor a $500.00 cash bond upon the issuance of the parade permit. Two hundred fifty dollars shall be refunded after the parade provided there is no disturbance in the parade and that the parade route and the surrounding area is free and clean of litter. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to clean up the parade route and the surrounding area after the parade.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 15)
Sec. 24-33. - Penalties.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present, or conduct, or attempt to stage, present, or conduct a parade without first having obtained a permit therefor as herein provided or who shall otherwise violate any of the provisions of this article.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a parade on the city streets for which a permit has not been granted.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with all directions and conditions of the parade permit.
(d)
Any person violating the provisions of any section of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished according to section 1-3.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 16)
Sec. 24-34. - Hours and length of parade.
No parade can commence earlier than 9:00 a.m. and all parades must be ended not later than 6:00 p.m. The total time from the beginning of the parade to the end of the parade shall not be more than one hour.
(Ord. of 6-9-1986, § 17)
