Chapter 32 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule powers of municipality to regulate and provide sewage collection and disposal systems, stormwater systems, and water treatment systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6), (7); Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq.; power of municipality to grant franchises or make contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); municipalities authorized to acquire, construct, operate and maintain water and sewage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections; payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 32-1. - Tap fees.
Tap fees will be established by mayor and council from time to time.
(Ord. of 10-3-2016)
Secs. 32-2—32-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER SERVICE

Sec. 32-21. - Water meters.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to connect a second household onto an existing water meter, be it permanent or a mobile home, without first getting approval in writing from the mayor and council.
(b)
Failure to comply with this section shall cause water to the meter to be cut off.
(Ord. of 8-31-1970(3))
Sec. 32-22. - Water rates and deposits.
The rates for water and the amount of deposits to be charged shall be as established by the mayor and council from time to time.
(Ord. of 5-7-1977; Ord. of 7-31-1978)
Sec. 32-23. - Groundwater protection.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, natural or corporate, individually or through any agent, except for the city government, for its corporate purposes, to drill, dig, bore or otherwise cause to be excavated any well, cistern, or hole more than 20 feet in depth.
(b)
If it should become necessary for any individual to construct some excavation for purposes other than the drawing of groundwater, and such excavation should be more than 20 feet below the natural surface at the location of the excavation, the person intending to make such an excavation may apply for a permit for such excavation. The application shall include certification from an engineer with a license issued by the state showing that said engineer is, in the judgment of the mayor and council, qualified to make such determinations, and a surety bond or proof of errors and omissions insurance, in an amount of no less than $250,000.00, stating that such an excavation would not in any way interfere with the free movement of groundwaters used as a water source by the city or any other operators of currently existing wells in the city, would not in any way contaminate or increase the likelihood of contamination of such groundwaters, and would not in way expose any underground pool, stream, or table of water directly to the surface or cause such pool, stream, or table to work its way to the surface. After careful review of such application and study, and with the protection of the groundwater sources of the city as their primary objective, the mayor and council shall decide if a permit for such excavation should be granted.
(c)
Any person who violates or causes to be violated this section shall be subject to a fine according to section 1-3. The mayor and council may also enforcement this section through the equitable remedies available in the superior court of the county or such other superior court or courts as may be appropriate.
(Ord. of 9-9-2002)
