Chapter 22 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, Ga. Const. art. III, § VI, ¶ IV, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; disorderly conduct, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISORDERLY CONDUCT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Disorderly conduct, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39; hazardous substances, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-16.

Sec. 22-19. - General prohibition.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to violate any of the following:
(1)
No person shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear for the safety of such person's life, limb, or health;
(2)
No person shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby the property of such person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(3)
No person shall, without provocation, use to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words"; or
(4)
No person shall, without provocation, uses obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace.
Any person who shall violate any subsection of this section shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and on conviction shall be punished according to section 1-3.
(Ord. of 8-3-1964(8))
Sec. 22-20. - Fire hazards.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to allow any combustible material to accumulate in such a manner as to cause a fire hazard in the city.
(b)
Any person violating this section shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and on conviction shall be punished according to section 1-3.
(Ord. No. 71, 2-5-1973)
Sec. 22-21. - Shooting.
Any person who shall shoot any firearms in the city limits unless necessary to protect person or property or by the permission of the mayor and council or who shall shoot any Roman candle, firecrackers, cannon cracker bombs or anything of like nature shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and on conviction shall be punished as prescribed in section 1-3.
(Ord. of 8-3-1964(7))
Sec. 22-22. - Control of offensive odors from livestock and poultry.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to keep livestock or poultry within the city limits in such a manner as to cause an offensive odor to any resident of the city. Upon written complaint by any citizen, the mayor and council shall investigate said complaint and if complaint is found to be so, the person owning the livestock or poultry shall be notified and given 14 days to eliminate the condition.
(b)
Persons not complying with this section shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and on conviction shall be punished as prescribed in section 1-3.
(Ord. of 8-31-1970(1))
Sec. 22-23. - Regulating the crossing of fire hoses.
It shall be unlawful to cross a fire hose with a vehicle. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and on conviction shall be punished as prescribed in section 1-3.
(Ord. No. 69, 2-8-1971)
Secs. 22-24—22-43. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MINORS

Sec. 22-44. - Curfew.
(a)
Unless accompanied by an adult, it shall be unlawful for any person 16 years of age, or younger, to idle, loiter or congregate with any other persons on or in the public streets, sidewalks or other public places within the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having custody or control of any minor 16 years of age, or younger, to permit, allow or encourage such minor to violate this curfew.
(Ord. of 3-3-1986, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 22-45. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in section 22-46, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult means any person who shall be over the age of 17 years.
Dangerous weapon means any object designed for the purpose of discharging a projectile by means of compressed air, combustion of gun powder, or any other means of propulsion. This shall include pellet guns, BB guns, all types of rifles and shot guns, bow and arrow, cross bow, sling shot, flip or any other type of weapon.
Direct and immediate supervision means supervision which is so direct that the adult can determine where each projectile to be fired is aimed and can intervene and prevent the firing of a projectile that is not aimed in a safe direction.
Minor means any person under the age of 17 years.
(Ord. of 4-2-1990; Ord. of 1-5-1998)
Sec. 22-46. - Use of dangerous weapons.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any minor to possess a dangerous weapon while said minor is outside of his home unless said minor is under the direct and immediate supervision of an adult. The minor shall not carry such a weapon upon the public streets of the city or upon land of another unless he is under the direct and immediate supervision of an adult owning said property. Any case against said minors shall be forwarded and turned over to the juvenile court of the county.
(b)
It shall further be unlawful for any person, minor or adult, to turn over to a minor a dangerous weapon or to allow a minor to obtain such a dangerous weapon and then to allow said minor to go out upon the public streets of the city or upon the lands of others in the city unless said minor is under the direct and immediate supervision of an adult. Any minor charged with the offense shall be forwarded and turned over to the juvenile court of the county. Any adult convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined in an amount of up to $1,000.00 and may be held in confinement up to five days and/or required to perform up to 20 hours of community service.
(Ord. of 4-2-1990; Ord. of 1-5-1998)
Secs. 22-47—22-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PUBLIC STREET PROTECTION

Sec. 22-66. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Primary street means any street that is part of the highway system of the state or of the county or a street specifically designated by the mayor and council in this article as now established or amended as a primary street.
Secondary street means a street the primary maintenance of which is the responsibility of the city and which has not been designated a primary street by the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 2-5-1990)
Sec. 22-67. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle with a loaded gross weight of greater than 15,000 pounds or with more than two axles onto or over a secondary street unless that motor vehicle's designation is on the secondary street or passage on that secondary street is necessary to travel to another location within the city that cannot be reached by use of a primary street. Any travel on a secondary street shall be by the shortest possible route to get to the designation.
(Ord. of 2-5-1990)
Sec. 22-68. - Penalties.
Any person found in violation of this article shall be fined in an amount according to section 1-3.
(Ord. of 2-5-1990)
Sec. 22-69. - Signs.
The city shall purchase, erect and maintain signs which shall be placed in plain view where any secondary street intersects a primary street and where the secondary street intersects a city limit. These signs shall state that through trucks shall be prohibited from using such road.
(Ord. of 2-5-1990)
Sec. 22-70. - Designation of streets.
Georgia Highway 72, also known as Third Avenue, Fourth Street, North First Street, and Eighth Avenue, are hereby designated as primary streets. All other streets are hereby designated as secondary streets.
(Ord. of 2-5-1990)
Secs. 22-71—22-98. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 22-99. - Shooting firecrackers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot firecrackers, Roman candles, bombs or anything of like nature in the city limits between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. and any person found guilty shall be punished as prescribed in section 1-3.
(Ord. of 1-1-1938; Ord. of 9-1-1947)
State Law reference— Regulation of fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.
Sec. 22-100. - Contempt.
Any person summoned as a witness before the mayor's court or before the city council who shall fail, neglect or refuse to appear and testify or refuse to testify after appearing in said court as a witness shall be arrested and brought before said court or council, there to be dealt with as for contempt and on conviction shall be punished as prescribed in section 1-3.
(Ord. of 8-3-1964(5))
Sec. 22-101. - Gaming.
It shall be unlawful for persons to gather for the purpose of playing any game with cards, dice or balls or any other game of chance for money or other things of value. Person violating this section shall on conviction be punished as prescribed in section 1-3.
(Ord. of 8-3-1964(6))
Sec. 22-102. - Open container.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or have in his possession any alcoholic beverages in any open container while sitting, standing, walking, congregating or otherwise being upon the public streets, sidewalks and rights-of-way, or in parked cars, on such public streets, sidewalks and rights-of-way, or on any public or semi-public parking facility within the city. The term "semi-public parking facility" shall include any privately owned area wherein motor vehicles may be parked by the public in conjunction with any business, enterprise, commercial establishment, office building or multiple-family residential building. As used in this section, the term "open container" means any bottle, can, glass, cup or other vessel which contains an alcoholic beverage not in its original unbroken sealed container.
(b)
Upon conviction a person may be punished according to section 1-3.
(Ord. of 7-2-1990(1))
State Law reference— Open container in car, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.
Sec. 22-103. - Noise disturbances.
It shall be unlawful for any person to create or cause to be created loud or unusual noises which are detrimental or annoying to the public, including, without limitation, unusual loud disturbances in or around churches or multiple-family complexes such as loud music and other activities in swimming pool and clubhouse areas, and further including, without limitation, the following specifically prohibited conduct:
(1)
Musical instruments, radios, etc. The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 300 feet from the building, structure or vehicle, or, in the case of real property, beyond the property limits in which it is located, whichever is farthest, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and between 12:00 midnight and 7:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday mornings shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section;
(2)
Loudspeakers on vehicles. The using, operating or permitting to be used, operated or played of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or which serves to attract the attention of the public to any building, structure or vehicle; or
(3)
Voices. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, or private property, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and between 12:00 midnight and 7:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday mornings so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
Any person having been found in violation of this section shall be punished according to section 1-3.
(Ord. of 7-2-1990(2))
