Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Livestock running at large or straying, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1 et seq.; sterilization of dogs and cats in shelters, O.C.G.A. § 4-14-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Dogs and livestock.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any livestock including chickens in the city limits, except it be in droves en route of travel in care of the owner or owner's agent, to run at large upon the streets of the city. Any person allowing such stock and chickens to run at large or be kept on his premises shall be guilty of disorderly conduct and, on conviction, shall be punished as prescribed in section 4.13 of the Charter and fined according to section 1-3.
(Ord. of 8-3-1964(10))
Sec. 6-2. - Animal control.
The mayor and council hereby adopt the animal control ordinance of the county as it presently exists or may be amended in the future, with the same force and effect as if recited in full herein. Any provisions in the county ordinance setting out "Madison County" or "county" are amended to read "City of Colbert" or "city" where appropriate.
(Ord. of 9-13-2010)
Secs. 6-3—6-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-23. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
At large means any place other than the premises of the owner, except where the animal is confined by a leash, chain, cord or similar restraint, or confined to a motor vehicle.
Dog means any member of the dog family (canidae), both male and female, singular and plural.
Officer means any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by the mayor to enforce this article.
Owner means any person who exercises ownership, control or custody of a dog, including allowing a dog to spend large amounts of time on property controlled by the person, whether said property is leased, rented, owned or occupied free of charge by the owner, or any person who regularly feeds and/or waters any dog.
(Ord. of 10-7-1996)
Sec. 6-24. - Impoundment of stray dogs and unvaccinated dogs.
(a)
The chief of police or any other official designated to enforce this article shall, upon observing a dog within the city limits cross from the lands controlled by one person to the lands of another, or upon seeing a dog on the public streets, alleys, parks, common areas, railroad property or upon any property not that of the owner of the dog, or otherwise at large, shall be authorized to seize that dog and impound the dog in such place of safe keeping as may be designated from time to time by the mayor.
(b)
The chief of police or any other official so designated to enforce this article shall be authorized to seize and impound any dog in the city limits, regardless of where it may be found or upon the land of any person, either the owner of the dog or not, which does not have attached proof of rabies vaccination.
(c)
If the owner of the dog is known, the city clerk shall notify such owner of the impoundment by certified mail, return receipt requested, within 72 hours of such impoundment. If possible, the chief of police or other impounding official shall notify the owner at the time of seizure. The city clerk shall post a description of said dog, the time and place of seizure, and any indication of identification at city hall and shall keep such notice posted throughout the next ten days.
(d)
Any dog seized may be reclaimed by the owner within seven days from the date of seizure by paying a fee of $25.00 for the first seizure, $50.00 for the second seizure, and $75.00 for any third or subsequent seizure, plus paying all boarding costs and other costs of caring for the dog, and upon either having the dog vaccinated for rabies or showing proof of current vaccination.
(e)
If after seven days the dog has not been reclaimed by a person claiming to be the owner, the dog may be offered for adoption by the boarding pound, upon payment of all boarding costs and rabies vaccination fees.
(f)
Notwithstanding the provisions of this or any other section, no animal which, in the opinion of a doctor of veterinary medicine, is suffering from rabies, hydrophobia, mange or any other infectious or dangerous disease shall be released until such veterinarian finds that said animal is no longer diseased or a danger to the public or animal health and safety.
(g)
If after ten days said dog is not claimed or adopted, said dog may be destroyed under supervision of a veterinarian in as humane and painless a manner as possible, the cost to be borne by the city.
(h)
This section shall in no way conflict with the county's dangerous dog ordinance already in effect.
(Ord. of 10-7-1996)
Secs. 6-25—6-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DOMESTICATED ANIMALS

Sec. 6-54. - Rabies vaccination.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any domesticated animal, or anyone having a domesticated animal in his possession or control, to be within the city limits without proof that the animal has a current rabies vaccination. In the case of a dog, the tag indicating proof of such vaccination shall be displayed on a collar. The owner or possessor of any other domesticated animal shall have and be able to produce proof of such vaccination.
(Ord. of 5-2-2011, § 1)
Sec. 6-55. - Control of domesticated animals.
The owner or possessor of a domesticated animal within the city limits shall take reasonable care and precautions to prevent such domesticated animal from leaving the real property of the owner or possessor, and ensure that:
(1)
It is securely and humanely tethered or enclosed within a house, fence, building, pen, or other enclosure out of which the domestic animal cannot climb, dig, jump, or otherwise escape on its own volition, and that such enclosure is securely locked at any time the domestic animal is left unattended;
(2)
It is securely and humanely restrained by an invisible containment system with a sign posted on the property indicating that the system is in place; or
(3)
It is on a leash and under the control of a competent person; or it is off leash and obedient to and under voice command of a competent person who is in the immediate proximity of the domestic animal any time it is not restrained while on the property of its owner or possessor.
(Ord. of 5-2-2011, § 2)
Sec. 6-56. - Abandoning of domesticated animals.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any domesticated animal to knowingly abandon such animal within the incorporated area of the city.
(Ord. of 5-2-2011, § 3)
Sec. 6-57. - Enforcement.
This article may be enforced by any law enforcement officer of the city, county, or state having jurisdiction with the city. This article shall be enforced with a uniform traffic citation referencing this section and shall be referred to the municipal court or such other court as might be serving as the municipal court.
(Ord. of 5-2-2011, § 4)
Sec. 6-58. - Penalty.
The penalty for violation of this article shall be a fine in accordance with section 1-3.
(Ord. of 5-2-2011, § 5)
Secs. 6-59—6-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - CHICKENS

Sec. 6-81. - Keeping chickens.
The following provisions apply to the keeping of certain chickens within the city for the personal use of various landowners: The keeping of chickens is permitted in all zoning districts within the city as set out herein.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 6-82. - Number and type of chickens allowed.
(a)
No more than six chickens are allowed per parcel of land, regardless of the size of the parcel.
(b)
Roosters and any other crowing chickens are prohibited.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 6-83. - Commercial operations.
Chickens, chicken products and/or byproducts shall not be sold on or from any property zoned residential.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 6-84. - Feed.
Feed must be stored in a fully enclosed, rodent-proof container.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
Sec. 6-85. - Enclosures.
(a)
A covered enclosure must be provided for roosting and protection. Chicken coops, chicken houses, and/or roosting structures shall be situated in the rear yard of any property, residential or commercial. Chickens must be kept within a fenced or enclosed area at all times and no landowner or tenant shall fail to prevent his chickens from straying from the property of the owner or keeper, or going upon the property of any other person, or upon any public right-of-way.
(b)
All chicken houses and enclosures must be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times, and must be positioned at least ten feet from any property line, and at least 25 feet from any residential structure on a neighboring parcel.
(c)
Any structure used pursuant to this article greater than 25 square feet will be considered an accessory structure and shall comply with the provisions of the ordinances of the city concerning outbuildings.
(Ord. of 4-2-2018)
