Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as " The Code of Rockdale County, Georgia," and may so be cited.
(Code 1978, § 10-1001)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless the construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the county commissioners:
Commissioners, board, board of commissioners, commission. The terms "commissioners," "board," "board of commissioners" and "commission" shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Rockdale County.
Code, this code. Whenever the terms "Code" and "this Code" are referred to without further qualification, they shall mean the Code of Rockdale County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
County. The term "county" shall mean the unincorporated area of Rockdale County unless otherwise specifically provided.
County chairperson. The term "county chairperson" shall mean the chairperson of the board of commissioners.
County clerk. The term "county clerk" shall mean the county executive assistant or a designee thereof.
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
Governing authority, governing body. The terms "governing authority" and "governing body" shall mean the county board of commissioners.
May. The term "may" is always directory and not mandatory.
Number. Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and words used in the plural shall include the singular number.
Oath. Oath includes affirmation.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read as the term "and," and the term "and" may be read as the term "or," if the sense requires it.
Other officials or officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officers, officials, employees, boards, commissions, departments, agencies, etc., by title only, i.e., "county clerk," "sheriff," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officers, officials, employees, boards, commissions, departments, agencies, etc., of Rockdale County, Georgia.
Person The term "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, societies, trusts, companies, trustees, and bodies politic and corporate, other legal entities, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Shall. The term "shall" is always mandatory and not directory.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The term "state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall mean the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense shall include the future as well as the past and present.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1978, § 10-1002)
State Law reference— Similar provisions regarding definition of street, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 .
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of sections of this Code, printed in boldface type, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections including the catchlines are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading or title to any part, chapter or article.
(Code 1978, § 10-1003)
Sec. 1-4. - History notes.
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
Sec. 1-5. - Editor's notes and references.
The editor's notes, cross references and state law references, and any other reference notes in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1978, § 10-1004)
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the county commission that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable; and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code, or its application to any persons or circumstances, shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, or their application. The board hereby declares that it would have passed this Code and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared illegal, invalid or unconstitutional.
(Code 1978, §§ 6-3007, 10-1005)
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, the repealed portion may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language:
"That section _______ of the Code of Rockdale County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: (Set out new provisions in full)."
(c)
When the board of commissioners desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the board of commissioners desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance:
"Section _______. It is the intention of the governing body and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Rockdale County, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish that intention."
(d)
When necessary, sections and subsections to the Code may be renumbered by the official codifier for the county to fulfill the intent of the board of commissioners, but all such changes shall be immediately brought to the board of commissioners' attention and approved in advance by the county attorney.
(e)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1978, § 10-1006)
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the board during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally change, or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1978, § 10-1007)
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance, rule, regulation or order of the county any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, or whenever in the Code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, the violation of that provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order may be punished by the Magistrate Court of Rockdale County, for each single violation, by a fine of not more than $1,000.00, or by imprisonment for not more than 60 days, or both.
(b)
Each day any violation of any provision of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
Notwithstanding all other provisions previously established for punishment of violations of this Code, this provision shall prevail.
(Code 1978, § 10-1008)
Sec. 1-12. - Applicability of Code.
The provisions of this Code, unless otherwise clearly specified, shall apply only to the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Code 1978, § 10-1009)
Sec. 1-13. - Miscellaneous actions and ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution of the county promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or to the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county, or any evidence of the county's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
(3)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the board of commissioners to any person, firm or corporation;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the county;
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing charges, fees or taxes now due or accrued;
(6)
Any ordinance or resolution or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed by this Code;
(7)
Any temporary, special or other uncodified ordinance;
(8)
Any rezoning ordinance or any ordinance amending a zoning map;
(9)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the county;
and all such actions, resolutions and ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect, or as continuing to be repealed, to the same extent as if set out at length in, or repealed by, as the case may be, this Code.
(Ord. of 10-10-1978, § 3)
