ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION, NAME, BOUNDARIES, POWERS

Section 1.10. - Incorporation, name.
The City of Austell in Cobb and Douglas counties as the city boundaries are presently described in several Acts of the General Assembly of Georgia and as shown on the city map hereinafter referred to, are hereby reincorporated and the city is constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style of Austell, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual existence. References in this charter to "the city" or "this city" refer to the City of Austell.
Section 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
modified
(a)
[ Boundaries.] The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by general state law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or description, or supplemental description) of the corporate limits of the City of Austell, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or descriptions certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
[ Redrawing of map.] The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
(c)
Annexation of August 26, 1996. On and after the date of this ordinance, the corporate limits of the City of Austell shall include and embrace those additional tracts of land described as follows:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 1135 and 1136 19th District, 2nd Section, Cobb County, Georgia, containing 12.218 acres as shown on survey prepared by West Georgia Surveyors, Inc., dated August 26, 1996 and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin located on the south right-of-way of Clay Road 225.29 ft.; northwest of the intersection of the south right-of-way of Clay Road with the east line of Land Lot 1135; thence south 00 degrees 59 minutes 57 seconds east for a distance of 205.76 ft.; to an iron pin; thence south 74 degrees 11 minutes 32 seconds east for a distance of 227.00 ft.; to an iron pin located on the east line of Land Lot 1135; thence south 01 degrees 38 minutes 27 seconds east for a distance of 676.70 ft.; to an iron pin; thence south 52 degrees 02 minutes 00 seconds east for a distance of 454.17 ft.; to an iron pin located on the south line of Land Lot 1136; thence south 88 degrees 25 minutes 46 seconds west along the south line of Land Lot 1136 for a distance of 349.42 ft.; to an iron pin located at the common corner to Land Lots 1135, 1136, 1159 and 1160; thence south 88 degrees 25 minutes 46 seconds west along the south line of Land Lot 1135 for a distance of 430.35 ft.; to a point located on the east boundary of the existing limits of the City of Austell; thence north 01 degrees 02 minutes 37 second west along the east boundary of the city limits for a distance of 1207.49 ft.; to an iron pin; thence north 22 degrees 10 minutes 00 seconds west for a distance of 62.61;ft; to a point located on the east right-of-way of Sweetwater Valley Road; thence north 08 degrees 29 minutes 53 seconds west along the east right-of-way of Sweetwater Valley Road for a distance of 49.74 ft.; to a point located on the south right-of-way of Clay Road; thence south 73 degrees 20 minutes 49 seconds east along the south right-of-way of Clay Road for a distance of 243.21 ft.; to an iron pin and point of beginning.
Annexation of March 7, 2022: A0307-22-01
On or after the effective date of this Ordinance, the corporate limits of the City of Austell shall include and embrace those additional tracts of land of approximately +/-1.21 acres located at 5786 and 5796 Maxham Road, Cobb County Tax Parcel ID 18002900090 and 18002900210, Land Lot 29, Parcels 9 and 21 of the 18th District, 2nd Section of Cobb County, Georgia.
Annexation of April 4, 2022: A0404-22-01
On or after the effective date of this Ordinance, the corporate limits of the City of Austell shall include and embrace those additional tracts of land of approximately +/-37.69 acres located at 5681, 5745, 5755, 5765, 5775, 5815, 5839 and 5865 Maxham Road and one (1) unaddressed parcel on Maxham Road contiguous to the other parcels, Cobb County Tax Parcel ID's 18002900010, 18002900030, 18002900040, 18002900080, 18002900050, 18002900060, 18002900070, and 18008800010, Land Lot 29, Parcels 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8; and Land Lot 88, Parcel 1 of the 18th District, 2nd Section of Cobb County, Georgia.
Annexation of April 4, 2022: A0404-22-02
On or after the effective date of this Ordinance, the corporate limits of the City of Austell shall include and embrace those additional tracts of land of approximately +/-28.35 acres located at 5640 Westside Road and 3700 Goodwin Road, Cobb County Tax Parcel ID No.'s 19131400020, 19131500060 and 19131400070, Land Lot 1314, Part of Parcel 2 and Parcel 7; Land Lot 1315, Parcel 6, 19th District, 2nd Section of Cobb County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 8-26-1996; Ord. No. A0307-22-01 , 3-7-2022; Ord. No. A0404-22-01 , 4-4-2022; Ord. No. A0404-22-02 , 4-4-2022)
Editor's note— The metes and bound description included in this section may not be currently accurate. The corporate boundaries may change from time to time due to annexation and de-annexation.
Section 1.12. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or any future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
(c)
The corporate powers of this city may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Ad valorem taxation. To levy, assess, and collect ad valorem taxes on all taxable property in the city;
(2)
Other taxes. To levy, assess, and collect other taxes allowed by general law;
(3)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy, assess, and collect occupational and business taxes and to license and regulate occupations and businesses;
(4)
Appropriations. To make appropriations and expend funds for support of the city and any other lawful purpose;
(5)
Municipal debts. To borrow money and issue bonds, notes, and other obligations as authorized by general law;
(6)
Property. To own property and interests in property;
(7)
Gifts. To accept gifts and grants for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city on such terms as the donor may impose;
(8)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, under any applicable public acts as are or may be enacted;
(9)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility, and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations and penalties, and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced;
(10)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public service, and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations by the public service commission;
(11)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon, or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities;
(12)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under any applicable public acts, as are or may be enacted;
(13)
Sidewalk maintenance. To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be affected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so;
(14)
Building regulation. To regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, swimming pool, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes and to regulate all housing, building, and building trades; to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures;
(15)
Planning and zoning. To provide such comprehensive city planning for development by zoning, subdivision regulation, and the likes as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community;
(16)
Police power. To exercise the police power for the public safety and well-being of the city;
(17)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers; pawn shops; the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors; the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant trades; theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows of any kind whatever, by taxation or otherwise; to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, game rooms, game machines, teen clubs, dance halls, and massage parlors;
(18)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(19)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(20)
Noise, air and water pollution. To regulate the decibel level of noise (including music) and the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city;
(21)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof;
(22)
Public hazards, removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(23)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other materials for recycling and to provide for the sale of such items;
(24)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service or availability charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees, and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(25)
Sewer fees. To levy an availability or a use fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewerage system a service charge fee or sewer tax for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same; to charge, impose, and collect a sewer connection fee or fees and to charge the same from time to time; such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewerage system;
(26)
Nuisance. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(27)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public, whether inside or outside the city limits, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(28)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court shall work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and squares in the city; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreements with the appropriate county officials; or to provide for community service work; and to house prisoners for other governmental agencies;
(29)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same; if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition of such animals and fowl by sale, gift, or humane destruction when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violation of an ordinance enacted hereunder; and to provide for contracting with other governmental agencies therefor;
(30)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(31)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces on public ways for the use of such vehicles;
(32)
Bonding companies. To regulate and license bonding companies in the city or doing business in the city;
(33)
Pensions. To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the city;
(34)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(35)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations providing for services to be made therefor;
(36)
City agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(37)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(38)
Public safety, police and fire protection. To organize and operate a police department, to exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen, to organize and operate a firefighting agency, and to organize and operate an emergency rescue and emergency medical technicians agency;
(39)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists inside or outside the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(40)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(41)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(42)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards; and
(43)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No listing of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
Section 1.13. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by the constitution of Georgia, by general law, or by this charter. If general law and this charter make no provision, such powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance.
