ARTICLE X. - HOTEL-MOTEL OCCUPANCY EXCISE TAX[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
State Law reference— Local authority to impose tax on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51.

Sec. 10-437. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Due date means the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel-motel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, public club, or private club, containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. The term "hotel-motel" does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention, or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession or the right to the use or possession of any room or apartment in a hotel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the city, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel for at least ten consecutive days next preceding such date.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint adventure, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, the state, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article.
(Code 1985, § 6-136; Ord. of 4-2-1984)
Sec. 10-438. - Imposition and rate of tax.
There is hereby imposed an excise tax in the amount of five percent of the charge to the public, upon the furnishing for value to the public of any room, lodging or accommodations furnished by any person licensed by or required to pay business or occupation taxes to the city for operating a hotel or motel within the meaning of this article.
(Code 1985, § 6-137; Ord. of 4-2-1984; Ord. of 4-4-1988)
Sec. 10-439. - Collection of tax by operator; receipt to occupant; rules for collection schedules.
Every operator maintaining a place of business in the city, as provided in section 10-438, and renting guest rooms in the city, not exempted under section 10-440, shall collect a tax of five percent on the amount of rent from the occupant.
(Code 1985, § 6-138; Ord. of 4-2-1984; Ord. of 4-4-1988)
Sec. 10-440. - Exemptions.
No tax shall be imposed under this article upon a permanent resident.
(Code 1985, § 6-139; Ord. of 4-2-1984)
Sec. 10-441. - Registration of operator; form and contents; execution; certificate of authority.
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in the city shall immediately register with the community affairs department, on a form provided by the clerk. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later than 30 days after the date this article becomes effective and the tax is imposed as set forth in section 10-438; but such privilege of registration after the imposition of such tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of tax on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of registration. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place and such other information which would facilitate the collection of the tax as the clerk may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in the case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer. The clerk shall, after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Code 1985, § 6-140; Ord. of 4-2-1984)
Sec. 10-442. - Determination, returns and payments.
(a)
Due date of taxes. All amount of such taxes shall be due and payable to the clerk monthly on or before the 20th day of the month following the month in which this tax shall become effective and on or before the 20th day of every month thereafter.
(b)
Return; time of filing; persons required to file; contents. On or before the 20th day of each month, a return for the preceding month shall be filed with the clerk showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as may be required by the clerk.
(c)
Collection fee allowed operators. Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and payment of the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be three percent of the amount due.
(Code 1985, § 6-141; Ord. of 4-2-1984)
Sec. 10-443. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the clerk is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any person, the clerk may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information which the clerk has or may acquire. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of 0.75 percent per month, or fraction thereof from the due date of taxes.
(c)
Notice of determination; service of. The clerk or a designated representative shall give to the operator written notice of the determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the clerk. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Code 1985, § 6-142; Ord. of 4-2-1984)
Sec. 10-444. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return, the clerk shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person, or as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in the city which are subject to tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the clerk. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in section 10-443(c).
(b)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of 0.75 percent per month or fraction thereof from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(Code 1985, § 6-143; Ord. of 4-2-1984)
Sec. 10-445. - Administration of article.
(a)
Authority of clerk. The clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed by this article.
(b)
Records required from operators, etc.; form. Every operator renting guest rooms in the city to a person shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the clerk may require.
(c)
Examination of records; audits. The clerk or any person authorized in writing by the clerk may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms to a person and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(d)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the provisions of this article, the clerk may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in such person's possession or custody information relating to rentals of guest rooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the clerk when required by the clerk and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the dates of occupancy, and such other information as the clerk may require.
(Code 1985, § 6-144; Ord. of 4-2-1984)
Sec. 10-446. - Violations.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in this Code. Each such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of the article is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and shall be punished accordingly. Any operator or any other person who fails to register as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the clerk or who renders a false or fraudulent return shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in this article.
(Code 1985, § 6-145; Ord. of 4-2-1984)
Sec. 10-447. - Collection of tax.
(a)
Action for tax; time for. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the clerk may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the city to collect the amount delinquent, together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Duty of successors or assignees of operator to withhold tax from purchase money. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold sufficient of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt from the clerk showing that he has been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(c)
Liability for failure to withhold; certificate of notice of amount due; time to enforce successor's liability. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold purchase price as required, he shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price.
(d)
Tax credit, or interest paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected. Whenever the amount of any tax or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city under this article, it may be offset by the clerk. If the operator or person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the clerk, he will have three years from date of payment to file a claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the clerk, the excess amount paid to the city may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid, or his administrators or executors.
(Code 1985, § 6-146; Ord. of 4-2-1984)
Secs. 10-448—10-477. - Reserved.
