APPENDIX B - SPECIAL EVENTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the county's special events ordinance as set forth in Ord. of 7-19-2016(2) , adopted by the board of commissioners on July 19, 2016. Amendments to the ordinance are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This ordinance shall be titled the "Putnam County Special Events Ordinance."
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this ordinance, the following terms, phrases, words and derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely dicta.
(1)
Manager. The manager of the government of Putnam County, Georgia, or his designee for the administration of this chapter.
(2)
Producer. Any person, group of persons, organization, association, club, or other entity responsible for planning, producing and conducting an event.
(3)
Special event. The term "special event" or "event" shall mean any organized activity having as its purpose entertainment, recreation and/or education, such as a festival or celebration, foot or vehicle race, parade or march, rally or assembly which takes place on a public street, sidewalk or right-of-way, or occurs on private property and impacts government services on public rights-of-way.
(4)
Vendor. Any person or persons who engage in the sale to the public of any food or food products, goods, services, or merchandise of whatever nature from any location, either mobile or stationary, on a temporary itinerant basis on any public street, sidewalk, or right-of-way. The definition of vendor, as used in this chapter, shall not be construed to include or prohibit a permanent business, operating under the provisions of the business license ordinance and other applicable laws, from displaying goods or merchandise on a public sidewalk immediately in front of and adjacent to the permanent business structure so long as such displays do not impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic and so long as other laws and ordinances pertaining to such business or displays are complied with.
Sec. 3. - Permits.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, group, organization, association, club or other entity to conduct or cause to be conducted any special event in Putnam County without having obtained a valid permit for such event.
(b)
Geographic limitation; responsibility for law enforcement and sanitation service. A special event shall be limited to the specific geographic area(s) within which the event is to take place and the producer of a special event shall be responsible for the provision of safety and sanitation services within the boundaries of the event for a period of two hours past the conclusion of the event or until the area is cleared of all activities and structures related to such event.
(c)
Time limitation. Except for clearing of the area, no special event shall be allowed to continue beyond the time approved on the permit for the event.
(d)
Delineation of boundaries; preservation of areas for circulation. The outermost boundaries of the special event shall be fully and clearly delineated on a map, which shall be no smaller than 8½ × 11 inches in size, and attached to the application for a permit. All public streets and/or sidewalks within and adjacent to such area(s) shall be clearly identified. The manager, or designee, shall require, as part of the approval for the event, that areas no less than five feet in width shall be designated and preserved for public circulation and access to adjoining business establishments outside the area(s) delineated for the event.
(e)
Maps for walks or runs. The producer of a special event such as a walk or run, as to which the provisions of subsection (d) above would not be practicable, shall submit with the application for a permit a map, which shall be no smaller than 8½ × 11 inches in size, showing the exact route of the course for the walk or run.
Sec. 4. - Application; fee.
(a)
A producer of a special event shall make application for a permit for such event at the office of the manager on a form prescribed by the manager.
(b)
An application for a special event should be filed at least 60 days prior to the date the event is scheduled to occur. However, no application shall be accepted earlier than one year prior to the date of the event.
(c)
A nonrefundable application fee shall be paid at the time the application for a permit is filed. Fees shall be based on a schedule developed by Putnam County Planning and Development. Such fee shall be payable to Putnam County.
Sec. 5. - Identification of producer.
The producer of an event, if a group or organization, shall be fully identified on the application. However, a special event permit shall be issued only to an individual person, who may be the actual producer or a designated agent of the producer, and such individual person shall be solely and fully responsible for compliance with all provisions, including all financial requirements, of this chapter and other applicable laws.
Sec. 6. - Administrative review.
The manager, or his designee, shall cause the application to be circulated to each government department and/or other agency whose services the manager determines would be affected by the nature and activities of the proposed event. Each such department or agency shall review the application and note the services which it will be required to perform, the number of personnel to perform such services, the length of time to perform such services, the cost to perform such services, and any other information which would assist the manager in facilitating the event and services required.
Sec. 7. - Special conditions on permit.
Each department of the government reviewing an application may recommend in writing certain conditions or restrictions as deemed necessary to facilitate the event, to comply with other laws or regulations, and/or to ensure the safety, health and welfare of the community. In reviewing the recommendations of the departments, the manager may impose such conditions or restrictions as a part of the permit and such special conditions so imposed shall be construed to have the full force and effect of law as a provision of this chapter. A violation of such conditions or restrictions shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
Sec. 8. - Final approval of permit; minimum review period.
(a)
The manager is authorized to approve the permit application after considering all comments and conditions of the reviewing departments and agencies as well as other information pertaining to the proposed event as described on the application, and after the payment of all applicable fees and costs. Upon approval of the manager, the county clerk shall issue the permit. Any decision of the manager with regard to the disapproval of a permit application may be appealed to the board of commissioners by filing a written notice of such appeal within five business days of the manager's decision with the manager. Such appeal shall be taken up at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the board of commissioners.
(b)
A minimum of 30 working days shall be allowed for the administrative review of an application and the issuance of a permit.
(c)
The government shall approve, tentatively approve or deny the permit no later than 30 working days following the date the completed application is filed. If the permit is denied, the producer shall be notified in writing of the denial and the reason(s) for the denial. The manager may tentatively approve an application for a permit received more than 135 days prior to the proposed special event. A tentative approval reserves the locations, dates and times of a special event and is subject to revision based upon the manager's subsequent review, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Code section, of information received following issuance of a tentative permit. If a permit is tentatively approved, final approval and issuance of the permit shall occur no later than 90 days prior to the special event.
Sec. 9. - Emergency issuance of permit.
In extraordinary circumstances, the manager shall be authorized to waive or otherwise expedite any or all of the review process and to issue a special event permit upon payment by the producer of all applicable fees and costs for such event.
Sec. 10. - Permit fees.
(a)
The fee for a permit to conduct a special event shall be based on all services to be provided by the government for such event and shall be equal to the estimated actual cost to the government to provide such services. The initial permit fee shall be the aggregate of the estimated costs of such services calculated by each government department. If, at the conclusion of the event, the cost of government services is greater than the initial payment, the producer of the event shall be billed for the difference. Failure to pay the outstanding amount within 30 days of the billing date shall be a violation of this chapter.
(b)
The initial permit fee must be paid in full prior to the issuance of a permit and no later than 72 hours prior to the date of the event.
(c)
The fees required in this section shall be in addition to any other fees which may be required by any other ordinances or regulations that might be applicable.
(d)
No producer of any special event, except as otherwise provided for, shall be exempt from the payment of the appropriate fees and charges required under this chapter.
Sec. 11. - Liability.
The producer of any special event shall hold harmless the Board of Commissioners Putnam County, its officers, employees and agents from liability of damages arising from any acts or omissions emanating from a special event. Proof of such waiver shall be filed with, and made a part of, the application form. The producer shall be responsible for providing any and all other insurance that may be necessary for any special event.
Sec. 12. - Vendors.
(a)
Sales permitted. The sale of food, including the sale of alcohol or any merchandise or services of any type by a vendor shall be allowed as a component of a special event provided such vendor is approved and authorized in writing by the producer of the event and shall be conducted in accordance with such conditions and limitations as shall be imposed in writing by the producer and submitted as part of the application for a permit.
(b)
Authorization of vendors. The producer of a special event shall have sole responsibility and authority to allow or disallow sidewalk or street vending as a component of an event and to designate the location and activities of such vendors. It shall be unlawful for any vendor to engage in such business at any location or in any manner not authorized by the producer of the event.
(c)
Identification required. Any vendor authorized by the event producer shall be required to prominently display on his or her person a badge identifying the vendor as an authorized participant in the event. Such identification shall be not less than three inches by three inches, shall state that the bearer is an official participant in the event, and shall bear the signature of the producer of the event.
(d)
Permit not required. Vendors authorized by the producer of an event as a component of the event shall not be required to obtain any separate vendors permit to operate during the period of the event. However, all other vendors, of whatever nature, not authorized as a participant in the special event shall obtain the appropriate licenses and permits as required under other applicable ordinances.
(e)
Unauthorized vending prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any vendor not authorized by the producer of a special event as provided under this section to engage in such business within a distance of 25 yards of such event from one hour before until one hour after the event.
(f)
Food sales. The vendor of any food, whether hot or cold, as a part of a special event shall be subject to all rules and regulations of the county health department. It shall be the responsibility of the producer of an event to assure compliance with this section by any such vendors.
Sec. 13. - Sale of malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits.
Special outdoor cafe areas where malt beverage, wine, and distilled spirits may be dispensed and consumed shall be permitted only within the delineated boundaries of a special event subject to the following conditions:
(1)
The producer of a special event shall have the discretion to provide areas where alcohol may be served within the delineated boundaries of the event.
(2)
Whenever any event will include the dispensing and consumption of alcohol, the producer of such event, at least 45 days prior to the event, shall meet with appropriate staff members of the Putnam County government as designated by the manager in order to review the plans, conditions and restrictions pertaining to the event. Prior to the issuance of a permit for the event, the producer shall sign a statement of understanding and agreement to the terms and conditions imposed on the event. Such statement shall become a part of the conditions of the permit for the event.
(3)
The dispensing of alcohol at any special outdoor cafe area shall be restricted to a holder of a temporary or permanent caterer alcohol license issued by Putnam County.
(4)
The producer of the special event where alcohol is served shall provide, at his/her own expense, security personnel as approved by sheriff, or his designee.
(5)
Every area where alcohol is consumed shall be conspicuously posted at all times at each point of entrance/exit with signs stating the following: "The possession of alcoholic beverages beyond this point is prohibited." The letters of such signs shall not be less than three inches in height and one-half inch in width and shall be in black letters on a contrasting light background.
(6)
It shall be unlawful for patrons of any area(s) of a special event in which alcohol is permitted to bring into or take outside the designated area(s) any alcoholic beverage or to furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person outside the designated area where alcohol is permitted. Provided, however, that participants in and sponsors of home-brew special events may transport malt beverages to a home-brew special event in a special outdoor cafe in accordance with applicable law.
(7)
The application for a special event at which alcohol is permitted shall include, in addition to the map identifying the outermost boundaries of the event, a map no smaller than 8½ × 11 inches in size, clearly identifying the area(s), including all public streets and sidewalks within and adjacent to the area(s), where the consumption of alcohol is proposed.
(8)
The application for a permit for a special event at which alcohol is permitted shall include a description of the area(s), including the size and the number of seats proposed for such area(s). The application also shall contain a description of the method and structures that will be used to secure and separate such area(s) from other public areas as required in subsection (4) above.
(9)
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any person dispensing and/or consuming alcohol in accordance with this section shall comply with all other laws and ordinances pertaining to the sale, possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Sec. 14. - Glass containers.
The use of glass containers within the area of any special event shall be prohibited.
Sec. 15. - Law enforcement services.
Traffic and crowd control shall be provided by the Putnam County Sheriff's Office and the number of officers and/or special arrangements shall be determined by the sheriff.
Sec. 16. - Toilet facilities.
The producer of a special event shall be required to provide temporary outdoor toilet facilities at any event as follows: one toilet for every 25 persons expected to be in attendance.
(Ord. of 12-3-2021(1) )
Sec. 17. - Tents, stages or other structures.
Tents, arbors, stages, grandstands or other temporary facilities constructed or erected as a part of a special event shall be approved by the director of the building inspection department.
Sec. 18. - Street closing.
The complete or partial closure of any street, sidewalk or other public way as a part of a special event shall be approved by the Manager in consultation with the sheriff.
Sec. 19. - Banners and signage.
Temporary, noncommercial banners or signs may be permitted overhead across public streets for the purpose of designating "starting" and "finish" lines for a race. Small banners, pennants, signs or other decorations which do not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and which do not damage or deface any tree or public structure may be allowed as part of a special event. The producer of the event shall be responsible for the removal of such banners, pennants or decorations within 48 hours after the close of the event.
Sec. 20. - Duration of permit.
No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid prior to or past the date of the special event for which it is issued.
Sec. 21. - Cessation of activity.
The safety, health, welfare and good order of all citizens and the community shall be first and foremost and every special event shall be conducted in such manner. The sheriff may terminate any activity, whether a part of or the entire event, which does not meet this community standard. Upon notification of the event producer in person by the sheriff to cease any activity, it shall be unlawful for such producer and/or any participants to permit such activity to continue.
Sec. 22. - Picketing and demonstrations.
Any person, group or organization engaged in any picketing, demonstrations, assembly, gathering, procession or other activity protected by the U.S. Constitution shall be prohibited from blocking the ingress and egress of any public or private place. Any person, group or organization engaged in such activities is required to make application as set forth in section 4. However, any such person, group or organization shall be exempt from the permit requirement in section 3 and the fees set forth in sections 4 and 10.
Sec. 23. - Entertainment.
Musical entertainment shall be provided in a manner consistent with the peace and good order of the community. Musical entertainment shall not commence before 10:00 a.m. and must cease before 11:00 p.m.
Sec. 24. - Exemptions.
The following special events shall not be required to receive a permit under this appendix, but shall otherwise be subject to all regulations herein contained:
(1)
Any parade or procession conducted under the supervision and direction of a funeral director in conjunction with any funeral;
(2)
Meetings or events of church or religious services or assemblies;
(3)
County sponsored events;
(4)
Regular meetings of the members and guests of civic clubs or organizations or non-profit corporations who hold 501(c)(3) status but shall apply to any organized activity of such club or organization having as its purpose fund raising and to which the general public is invited to attend;
(5)
Events held at event centers as defined in the Code of Ordinances, so long as such activities do not exceed the capacity for the event center as established by the planning and zoning officer; or
(6)
Events sponsored by the Putnam County Charter School System or Central Georgia Technical College.
Sec. 25. - Penalties.
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall be punished as provided in Section 1-13 of the Putnam County Code of Ordinances. In addition to the aforementioned fines, the court may impose court costs for each offense of may combine the court costs upon the discretion of the court if any multiple violations occur at or about the same date.
