PART I - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]
(RESERVED)
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The Putnam County Board of Commissioners was created and established by an act of the Georgia General Assembly as set forth in 1879 Ga. Laws, page 334, and has been amended several times since. By final judgement and decree dated April 5, 1982 (amended April 23, 1992) the United States District Court in Civil Action No. 76-199 MAC modified previous provisions relating to the number, election and terms of the members of the board of commissioners. This judgement increased the number of county commissioners to five members, of which four were to be elected from new single-member voting districts with a chairman to be elected at large. Copies of the entire final judgement and amendment are on file in the office of the county clerk.
Code reference—Board of commissioners, § 2-31 et seq.

ARTICLE II. - PUTNAM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1968 Ga. Laws, page 1860, which amended the state constitution to create the Putnam Development Authority. The constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3955. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Development Authority of Putnam County, § 2-86 et seq.; Lake Oconee Area Development Authority, § 2-116 et seq.

Section A. - Created.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in the County of Putnam to be known as the Putnam Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Putnam County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the `Authority.'
Section B. - Members, etc.
The Authority shall consist of five members who shall serve for a term of five years and who shall be eligible for reappointment. The members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Putnam County. The initial members shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three, four and five years, respectively, and thereafter their successors shall be appointed for terms of five years. Members shall serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Board of Commissioners of Putnam County. A majority of members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the Authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act. No member of the Authority shall be a member of the Board of Commissioners of Putnam County, but there shall be no other disqualifications to hold public office by reason of membership on the Authority. The Authority shall elect a Chairman and such other officers as they may deem necessary at its first meeting in each calendar year.
Section C. - Taxes.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Putnam County. The exemptions from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the Authority. The right of any private person to use or occupy any real estate of the Authority for a period of one year or longer under any lease or other agreement for the purpose of taxation shall be classed as an interest in the real estate and as real property and shall be taxed as real property as now provided by law, or may be taxed as the General Assembly may hereafter provide by general or local law. The tax exemption herein provided shall not include exemption from sales and use taxes on property purchased by the Authority or for use of the Authority.
Section D. - Powers.
The powers of the Authority shall include but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage land, buildings, and property of all kinds within Putnam County.
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and donations and to administer trusts.
(3)
To grant, loan and lease without adequate consideration or without any consideration and with and without security, any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations operating or proposing to operate any industrial plant or establishment within Putnam County. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other power of the Authority.
(4)
To borrow money and to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates therefor and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor.
(5)
To contract with Putnam County and other political subdivisions and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name.
(6)
To have and exercise usual powers of a private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority.
(7)
To encourage and promote the expansion of industry, agriculture, trade, commerce and recreation in Putnam County, and to make long range plans therefor.
(8)
To exercise such other powers and duties as may be delegated to it by the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Putnam County.
(9)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(10)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter.
(11)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
Section E. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against Putnam County or the State of Georgia.
Section F. - Tort and contract liability.
The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability from torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents and employees of the Authority, when in performance of the work of the Authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia when in performance of their public duties or work of the State. The Authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the Authority.
Section G. - Compensation.
The members of the Authority shall receive only such compensation for their services to the Authority as shall be authorized by the Authority and approved by the Board of Commissioners of Putnam County and such compensation shall be paid from funds of the Authority.
Section H. - Funds.
The Board of Commissioners of Putnam County is hereby authorized to levy an annual tax on all taxable property located within the county not to exceed two mills per dollar on assessed valuation for the support of the Authority and for its use and purposes, and all funds raised by such tax shall be paid to the Authority and shall become a part of its funds and may be used by the Authority for any of its purposes and powers as herein stated, or as may hereafter be provided by law. The tax authorized herein shall be in addition to all other taxes authorized by law.
Section I. - Bonds.
In order to finance any undertaking with the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the Authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the Authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respect in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60, as if said obligation had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the Authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the Authority. The Authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bond issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement, or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the Authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to authorize said Authority to issue any bond resulting in the creation of a lien against the tax digest of Putnam County.
Section J. - Property.
The property of the Authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the Authority and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the Authority to enforce payments of the obligation.
Section K. - Construction.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of developing and promoting for the public good and general welfare of Putnam County and its citizens, industry, agriculture, commerce, natural resources and vocational training, and the making of long range plans for the coordination of such development, promotion and expansion within its territorial limits. This amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the development of this purpose.
Section L. - Effective date.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor.
Section M. - General Assembly.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority.
Section N. - Debts.
There shall be no limitations upon the amount of debt which the Authority may incur, but no debt created by the Authority shall be a debt of Putnam County or the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE III. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[3]
Part 1

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1994 Ga. Laws, page 4974, which provides for homestead exemptions from county ad valorem taxes for county purposes and from county school district ad valorem taxes. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 54.

Section 1. - Definitions.
For purposes of this part [1], the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for county purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for county purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of Putnam County including, but not limited to, taxes to retire bonded indebtedness but not including county school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
Section 2. - Amounts enumerated.
Each resident of Putnam County is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Putnam County ad valorem taxes for county purposes the following amounts:
(1)
For the taxable year beginning on January 1, 1995, $4,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead;
(2)
For the taxable year beginning on January 1, 1996, $6,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead;
(3)
For the taxable year beginning on January 1, 1997, $8,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead; and
(4)
For all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1998, $10,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead.
The value of the homestead in excess of the amount exempted by this section shall remain subject to taxation.
Section 3. - Application forms.
The tax commissioner of Putnam County or the designee thereof shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this part [1] and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
Section 4. - Claim and return; renewal; notice of ineligibility.
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this part to notify the tax commissioner of Putnam County or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
Section 5. - Application of provisions of part 1.
The exemptions granted by this part [1] shall not apply to or affect any state taxes, municipal taxes, or county school district taxes for educational purposes.
Section 6. - In lieu of, not in addition to, other homestead exemptions for county purposes.
The exemptions granted by this part [1] shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from Putnam County ad valorem taxes for county purposes.
Section 7. - Application of exemptions.
The exemptions granted by this part [1] shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1995.
Section 8. - Reserved.
Part 2
Section 9. - Definitions.
For purposes of this Act [part 2], the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for educational purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for educational purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of the Putnam County school district including, but not limited to, taxes to retire school bond indebtedness.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
Section 10. - Amounts enumerated.
Each resident of the Putnam County school district is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Putnam County school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes in the following amounts:
(1)
For the taxable year beginning on January 1, 1995, $4,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead;
(2)
For the taxable year beginning on January 1, 1996, $6,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead;
(3)
For the taxable year beginning on January 1, 1997, $8,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead; and
(4)
For all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1998, $10,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead.
The value of the homestead in excess of the amount exempted by this section shall remain subject to taxation.
Section 11. - Application forms.
The tax commissioner of Putnam County or the designee thereof shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by this part and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
Section 12. - Claim and return; renewal; notice of ineligibility.
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this part [2] to notify the tax commissioner of Putnam County or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
Section 13. - Application of provisions of part 2.
The exemptions granted by this part [2] shall not apply to or affect any state taxes, municipal taxes, or county taxes for county purposes.
Section 14. - In lieu of, not in addition to, other homestead exemption for educational purposes.
The exemptions granted by this part [2] shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from Putnam County school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes.
Section 15. - Application of exemptions.
The exemptions granted by this part [2] shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1995.
ARTICLE IV. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FOR PERSONS 65 OR OLDER[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1984 Ga. Laws, page 4657, which provides a homestead exemption to residents of the county who are age 65 or older. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 54.

Section 1. - Granted; amounts enumerated.
Each resident of Putnam County who is 65 years of age or over is granted an exemption from Putnam County ad valorem taxation for county purposes in the amount specified by this section on a homestead owned and occupied by the resident as a residence if the resident's net income, together with the net income of the resident's spouse who also occupies and resides at such homestead, as net income is defined by Georgia law, from all sources except as hereinafter provided, does not exceed $8,000.00 for the immediately preceding taxable year for income tax purposes. For the purposes of this section, net income shall not include income received as retirement, survivor, or disability benefits under the federal Social Security Act or under any other public or private retirement, disability, or pension system, except such income which is in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be paid to an individual under the federal Social Security Act; and income from such sources in excess of such maximum amount shall be included as net income for the purposes of this section. The amount of the exemption granted by this section shall be as follows:
(1)
The exemption granted by this section shall be $6,000.00 of the assessed value of the homestead for the tax year beginning January 1, 1985;
(2)
The exemption granted by this section shall be $7,000.00 of the assessed value of the homestead for the tax year beginning January 1, 1986; and
(3)
The exemption granted by this section shall be $8,000.00 of the assessed value of the homestead for the tax year beginning January 1, 1987, and for all tax years thereafter.
Section 2. - In lieu of, not in addition to, exemptions granted by state law.
The exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to the $4,000.00 exemption from county ad valorem taxation granted by the general provisions of the Constitution and laws of this state to persons who meet the age and income qualifications set out in Section 1 of this Act. If the amount of said exemption granted by the general provisions of the Constitution and laws of this state is increased above the amount of the exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act, then such increased exemption shall apply rather than the exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act.
Section 3. - Application of exemptions.
The exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act shall not apply to or affect any taxes levied to retire bonded indebtedness, county taxes for school purposes, state taxes, or municipal taxes.
Section 4. - Application; notice of ineligibility.
Any person who as of January 1, 1985, has applied for and is eligible for the $4,000.00 exemption from county ad valorem taxation granted by the general provisions of the Constitution and laws of this state to persons who meet age and income requirements corresponding to those set out in Section 1 of this Act shall be eligible for the exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act without applying therefor. Thereafter, application for the exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act shall be made in the same manner as the application for said exemption granted by the general provisions of the Constitution and laws of this state. It shall be the duty of any such person to notify the tax commissioner or tax receiver in the event such person becomes ineligible for the exemption granted by Section 1 of this Act.
Section 5. - Residence value in excess of exemption subject to taxation.
The value of any residence in excess of the amount exempted by Section 1 of this Act shall remain subject to taxation.
ARTICLE V. - HOSPITAL AUTHORITY[5]
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1991 Ga. Laws, page 3998, which provides for the terms and appointment of members of the hospital authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Hospital authority created, O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72.

Section 1. - Membership; terms.
(a)
The members of the Hospital Authority of Putnam County who are in office on the effective date of this Act shall continue to serve for the terms for which appointed and until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(b)
Thereafter, members of the hospital authority shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Putnam County pursuant to the requirements and procedures of O.C.G.A. § 31-7-72 for terms as follows:
(1)
Posts 1 and 2 shall be filled for terms of three years beginning March, 1991, and expiring the last day of February, 1994; thereafter, members from Posts 1 and 2 shall be appointed for terms of four years;
(2)
Posts 3 and 4 shall be filled for terms of one year beginning March 1, 1991, and expiring the last day of February, 1992; thereafter, members from Posts 3 and 4 shall be appointed for terms of four years;
(3)
Posts 5 and 6 shall be filled for terms of two years beginning March 1, 1993, and expiring the last day of February, 1995; thereafter, members from Posts 5 and 6 shall serve for terms of four years; and
(4)
Post 7 shall be filled for a term of four years beginning March 1, 1993, and expiring the last day of February, 1997; thereafter, the member from Post 7 shall be appointed for a term of four years.
