ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine or fortified wine.
Applicant means any one or more persons making application for a city or state alcoholic beverage license or renewal thereof.
Application means those forms, statements and applications authorized or required under the terms and conditions of this chapter, other applicable laws and regulations of the city and those applicable requirements of the state.
Bowling alley/bowling center means an establishment which is licensed to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines and which derives 50 percent of its total annual gross revenues either from the rental of bowling lanes and bowling equipment and the sale of prepared meals and other food products. A bowling alley/center also includes any indoor room, space or area which is open to or frequented by the public and operated for gain and in which is located for use of one or more surface ways, usually 42 inches by 60 feet in dimension each, upon which balls are rolled towards standing pins.
Church includes synagogues, and any other place of permanent public religious worship which shall exist if a valid building permit has been obtained and substantial construction is underway.
City special event means an event, held on designated city property, including rights-of-way, located within the city, that is approved by, organized by and and/or sponsored by the city. A city special event may include any city commission approved event that is organized by the Douglas-Coffee County Chamber of Commerce, Downtown Development Authority, or the Downtown Merchant Association, that is held only in the Town Center District.
College andschool mean those state, county, city, church or other colleges or schools teaching the subjects common in schools or colleges of the state, but shall not include private schools or colleges wherein only specialized subjects not including a general curriculum of education are taught.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Due cause means cause for suspension, revocation, cancellation or denial of any alcoholic beverage license which shall consist of any violation of this chapter or any laws or ordinances of the city, county or state prohibiting or regulating the business of selling, transporting or dealing in alcoholic beverages or violation of ordinances, laws or regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulation of such businesses; or for the violation of any city, state or federal law involving moral turpitude, controlled substances or violation of city ordinances other than traffic ordinances. The term "due cause" shall also consist of willfully false statements or conduct of the applicant for an alcoholic beverage license or renewal thereof or willful concealment of material matters of fact of obtaining or preventing another from obtaining a license hereunder.
File means that information contained in a single location and shall include, but not be limited to, applications, renewals, plans, registered plats, sworn statements, violations and any other information pertaining to the license deemed appropriate by the city.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Grocery store means a retail establishment which has a total retail floor space of at least 10,000 square feet, of which at least 85 percent is reserved for the sale of food and other nonalcoholic items; conducts all of its sales inside the building containing its retail floor space.
Hotel/motel means a building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which ten or more rooms are used for sleeping accommodations for such guests. Motels meeting the qualifications set out herein for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels. Hotels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for the operation of a lounge, restaurant or nightclub in their premises and the holder of such franchise shall be included in the definition of a hotel hereunder and subject to the applicable ordinances, laws, rules, and regulations of the city and state.
Immediate family or member of immediate family means all persons related to each other by consanguinity or affinity within the first degree, as computed according to the civil law.
Interest or financial interest means a pecuniary interest and shall include any present or future, whole or partial, legal or beneficial, direct or indirect, right, power or authority or control of or in any Class I, Class II or Class III alcoholic beverage application for license and/or license issued; it shall apply to the outright owner, co-owner, member of a partnership, or stockholder in a corporation, organized or in the process of organizing, for pecuniary gain, which owns or is to own any financial interest in any class of alcoholic beverage application and/or license issued for any class of such license within the city and shall include any such interest in the premises from which such alcoholic beverages are sold. If any of the income from the sales of alcoholic beverages is shared, or rent, lease, etc., on which land is, or is to be paid on the basis of sales of alcoholic beverages on such land, and anyone sharing in any income or corpus of any trust fund or estate having any interest in such applications, licenses or premises shall have a financial interest therein. Also, it shall include a lender of money or other thing of value to such applicant or licensee, to anyone else for the benefit of such applicant or licensee, on interest in excess of the highest level rate allowable in the state.
License means a license granted by the city and/or state, granted or issued upon the basis of the alleged truth of a written application therefor to sell alcoholic beverages within the city.
License year means that 12-month period for and with respect to which licenses under this chapter shall be issued. Such license year shall commence on January 1 of each year and end at 12:00 midnight on the December 31 next following.
Licensee means that person duly licensed or having interest therein as licensed, by the city to distribute, transport, sell at wholesale, retail or by the drink, alcoholic beverages of any kind or nature within the city.
Lounge means a separate room connected with a part of and adjacent to a restaurant or located in hotels as defined herein with all booths, tables or seating being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall be air conditioned and have a seating capacity of at least 20. A lounge as defined herein which is operated on a different floor in the premises or in a separate building on the premises, or is not connected to or adjacent to a restaurant shall be considered a separate establishment and shall pay an additional license fee.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. The term "manufacturer" also means:
(1)
In the case of distilled spirits, any person engaged in distilling, rectifying or blending any distilled spirits.
(2)
In the case of malt beverages, any brewer.
(3)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Minor means any person under 21 years of age.
Nightclub means an establishment having a seating capacity of at least 100 persons with all booths and tables being unobstructed and open to view and providing a band and/or other professional entertainment, a minimum of 20 days per month, every month, with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods of redecorating. All such nightclubs shall be equipped with air conditioning and shall maintain an adequate kitchen with a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for their patrons, provided that nightclubs located in hotels having dining room and kitchen facilities may be excluded from maintaining a connection with such nightclub. The principal business of such nightclubs shall be entertainment, and the serving of food and of distilled spirits shall be incidental thereto.
Off-premises sales of alcoholic beverages means the sale of alcoholic beverages of any type, kind or class in sealed, unbroken containers for consumption not on the premises of the licensee.
On-premises sales of alcoholic beverages means the sale, giving or dispensing of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises of the licensee.
Original/initial, when used in connection with an application for an alcoholic beverage license, means the first license granted for a given location or first use or application for use or change of use of a given application for use of a location previously licensed or approved for a license hereunder.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel or other original consumer container.
Park means city-owned, -occupied or -leased property utilized for passive and/or active recreational use by the public and shall include all properties so designated on the official map of the city.
Premises means those lots, plots or tracts of land upon which any structure, building, store, mobile trailer, etc., is located, from which alcoholic beverages are sold, dispensed, stored, consumed or given to the public, including, but not limited to, that building, structure, room or closed or partitioned-in locality, whether a room, shop, structure or building, wherein alcoholic beverages are sold, dispensed, stored, consumed or given to the public.
Private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, actively in operation at least six months immediately prior to the application for a license hereunder, having at least 50 members regularly paying monthly, quarterly or semiannual dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofitable purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholder or member owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests, provided that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of spirituous liquors to the club or its members or guests beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at any annual meeting or by its governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
Private dwelling means a house or dwelling or structure wherein one or more persons reside.
Pub means a public place where beverages, primarily alcoholic beverages, may be bought and consumed and also shall provide food and sometimes entertainment, normally television viewing. The square footage of the pub shall not exceed 1,200 square feet and shall not exceed an occupancy load greater than 45 people.
Renewal, when used in connection with an application for a license or a location, means an unrevoked alcoholic beverage license issued hereunder to a designated licensee for a designated location, on expiration of which unrevoked license the identical owners thereof, but no others, may be entitled to a new annual license for the same, but no other location.
Residence means domicile.
Restaurant means any public place kept, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served and at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales are derived from the sale of prepared meals or food.
Satisfactory proof means adequate or sufficient evidence to convince an unbiased, impartial, enlightened judge of the existence or nonexistence of a fact, situation or condition.
Special events facility means any place kept, used, maintained, advertised, or held out to the public as a place which serves as a location for special events, including, but not limited to, concerts, performances, weddings and receptions, anniversary receptions, bar/bat mitzvah receptions, birthday/holiday parties, company events, such as retirement receptions and employee appreciation events, and other similar parties, receptions, or events. Such facility may specifically include privately-owned properties which have barns, lakes, open pastures or fields, where such special events may take place. Such facility shall be open only for scheduled, event-based operations. Such facility shall not include places of worship or restaurants. No such facility shall be closer than 50 feet from a property line, except in the Town Center District.
Store ordistilled spirits store means a room or area wherein only the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages in the original unbroken packages, bottles, containers, etc., may be authorized under this chapter and the Revenue Tax Act to legalize and control alcoholic beverages and liquors.
Wholesale distributor of alcoholic beverages means that license issued by the city enabling the licensee to distribute, sell, or offer to sell to a bona fide Class II and Class III license holder, at wholesale prices, alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages or containers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Code 1978, § 5-1; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-1; Ord. No. 06102013 , 6-10-2013; Ord. No. 09122016, 9-12-2016 ; Ord. No. 12122016(2) , 12-12-2016; Ord. No. 10062018(1), § 6-1, 10-8-2018; Ord. No. 10062018(2), § 6-1, 10-8-2018; Ord. No. 08122019(1), § 6-1, 8-12-2019)
State Law reference— Definitions generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 4-2. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
The violation of the terms and conditions of this chapter by any applicant, licensee, his manager, director, operator, agents, assigns or employees for which such applicant and/or licensee is deemed responsible shall be punishable as provided by section 1-11 and shall be subject to sections 4-235 and 4-236.
(Code 1978, § 5-2; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-2)
Sec. 4-3. - Illegal acts on licensed premises.
(a)
No holder of a license authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages within the city, nor any agent, representative or employee of such licensee, shall perform any of the acts following which are hereby declared illegal:
(1)
Permit on the licensed premises any disorderly conduct; breach of peace; or any lewd entertainment, conduct or practices.
(2)
Class III license. Permit the entry of a minor into a licensed Class III business. Those Class III establishments meeting the definition of a restaurant and/or a bowling alley shall be exempt from the conditions of this subsection.
(3)
Acquiesce, permit or allow, knowingly or unknowingly, the bringing into, use of, sale, possession, dispensing, storing or in any other manner condone the presence of controlled substances/illicit drugs, narcotics, cocaine, crack, marijuana or any other substances declared illegal by the city, state or U.S. government. Failure of the owner, operator, manager, representative, agents or employees of same to ensure compliance with this section shall, within 24 hours of such finding by the governing body, the state or the U.S. government, result in immediate revocation of the alcoholic beverage license and closing of the business so licensed.
(4)
Permit or allow any person to bring into the licensee's place of business any form of alcoholic beverages and/or consume the alcoholic beverages brought into the licensed premises. The intent and purpose of this prohibition is to prohibit what is commonly referred to as brown bagging.
(b)
All violations of this section are, in addition to the above, subject to all penalties provided for in this chapter and/or ordinances, laws, regulations of the city, state and U.S. government.
(Code 1978, § 5-3; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-3; Ord. No. 06-13.1-94, 6-13-1994; Ord. No. 06102013 , § 6-1, 6-10-2013)
State Law reference— Furnishing alcoholic beverages to, and purchase of alcoholic beverages by, persons under 21 years of age prohibited; possession of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age prohibited; exceptions; proper identification; procedure where false identification tendered, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23; public indecency, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-8; prohibited conduct on licensed premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-40 et seq.
Sec. 4-4. - Enforcement personnel; right of entry.
The police department and/or marshal's office of the city, as well as those personnel of the alcoholic beverage enforcement division of the state, and of the U.S. government, are hereby authorized to enter into or upon the premises of any Class I, II and III alcoholic beverage licensed location at any time the enforcement agencies herein noted deem necessary in the enforcement of this chapter or other city, state or U.S. government, laws, ordinances, rules or regulations.
(Code 1978, § 5-4; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-4)
Sec. 4-5. - Dispensing, serving, selling or handling by persons under 21 years of age in the course of employment.
If such conduct is not otherwise prohibited, nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any person under 21 years of age from:
(1)
Dispensing, serving, selling, or handling alcoholic beverages as a part of employment in any licensed establishment;
(2)
Being employed in any establishment in which alcoholic beverages are distilled or manufactured; or
(3)
Taking orders for and having possession of alcoholic beverages as a part of employment in a licensed establishment.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-6.1; Ord. No. 12102012 , 12-10-2012)
Sec. 4-6. - Days, hours of sale.
No person shall sell, offer for sale, give, dispense or distribute alcoholic beverages on the following named days and times:
(1)
Christmas Day from 12:00 midnight of the previous day to 8:00 a.m. of the day following.
(2)
Sundays from 1:30 a.m. on Sunday to 8:00 a.m. the following day.
(3)
Class I license (distributors) from 8:00 p.m. Saturday to 8:00 a.m. Monday.
(4)
Class II license (retail sales) from 11:45 p.m. each day, excepting those days and times noted herein, to 8:00 a.m. the following day.
(5)
Class III license (consumption on-premises) from 1:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. each day, except those days and hours noted herein.
(Code 1978, § 5-132; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-7; Ord. No. 04082013 , 4-8-2013; Ord. No. 01242023 , 1-24-2023)
Sec. 4-7. - Exceptions to days, hours or sale.
The following are exceptions to section 4-6:
(1)
The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises on Sundays from 12:30 p.m. until 12:00 midnight in any licensed establishment which derives at least 50 percent of its annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food and meets the definition of a restaurant in this section.
(2)
Class II license (retail sales) on Sunday between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.
(3)
Bowling alley/bowling center on Sundays between the hours of 12:30 p.m. to 12:00 midnight.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-7.1; Ord. No. 12122016(2) , § 6-7.1, 12-12-2016)
Sec. 4-8. - Closing, clearing of premises.
All owners, managers, operators, representatives, agents or employees of a holder of a Class III alcoholic beverage license shall cease the sales, and shall not offer to sell, give, dispense or distribute any alcoholic beverages on or from the premises for which a Class III license has been issued by the city and/or the state as of 1:30 a.m. of each day of the week except those days and hours noted in section 4-6 and shall require all patrons, parties or persons to vacate the premises from which a Class III alcoholic beverage license has been issued by 2:30 a.m. of the same day. In addition, the sale of distilled spirits, beer and wine in restaurants and private clubs for on-premises consumption shall be permitted only during the hours when food service is offered between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight, Monday through Saturday and must be removed from the tables one hour after the sale of food ceases, or by 2:00 a.m. if food is served beyond 12:00 midnight, and all patrons will be out of such establishments and they will be closed by 2:30 a.m.
(Code 1978, § 5-133; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-8; Ord. No. 12102012 , 12-10-2012; Ord. No. 04082013 , 4-8-2013)
Sec. 4-9. - Penalty for sales during closed days and hours.
Violation of section 4-6 or 4-8 shall result in a cause for revocation of any and all alcoholic beverage licenses held by the owner, lessee or renter of the premises found in violation hereof and shall subject same to all penalties contained in this chapter.
(Code 1978, § 5-134; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-9)
Sec. 4-10. - Display of license.
The city license under this chapter shall at all times be kept plainly exposed to view at the place of business of the licensee.
(Code 1978, § 5-135; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-10)
Sec. 4-11. - Sales in licensed premises only.
No alcoholic beverage licensee shall sell or deliver any alcoholic beverage to any person except in the licensee's place of business.
(Code 1978, § 5-136; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-11)
Sec. 4-12. - Means and places of receipt of delivery to retail licensee; place of sale.
Alcoholic beverages shall be received at or delivered to the premises of the retail licensee by no means other than conveyance owned and operated by a wholesale dealer with a permit from the governing body to make deliveries in the city. Transportation of alcoholic beverages by any other means shall be grounds for revocation of a retail license and/or wholesale permit. No retail sales or deliveries of alcoholic beverages shall be made except in the place of business in which such sales and deliveries are authorized.
(Code 1978, § 5-138; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-12)
Sec. 4-13. - Interior visibility, Class III license.
No screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the window or upon the doors of a Class III licensed premises which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such premises from the street or road at all times and no booths, screen, partition or other obstruction shall be permitted within the interior of such licensed premises that blocks such view which shall plainly permit visibility from the street or road day and night.
(Code 1978, § 5-142; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-16)
Sec. 4-14. - Front entrance location, Class III license.
No license shall be granted for Class III alcoholic beverage sales hereunder unless the front entrance to the premises is clearly visible from a public street, and the premises around the building of the licensee shall be, on all corners thereof, lit with a minimum of 250-watt high pressure sodium lighting.
(Code 1978, § 5-144; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-18)
Sec. 4-15. - Gambling devices, slot machines, etc.
Within the premises of a Class II and Class III license holder there shall be no gambling, betting, games of chance, punchboards, vending machines, or tickets of chance and the like, therein or the operation of any schemes for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any licensee's place of business or in any room adjoining the same, owned, leased or controlled by licensee. Any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of license. Nothing contained herein shall restrict the presence of amusement games and/or video machine games in the businesses in which sales of Class III alcoholic beverages are conducted.
(Code 1978, § 5-145; Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-19)
Sec. 4-16. - Sales in Town Center District.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, distribute or otherwise dispense any alcoholic beverage whether the same is a Class I, Class II or Class III license as defined by the alcoholic beverage code within the Town Center District.
(b)
The board of commissioners may authorize the sale of alcohol by the drink under a Class III license in the Town Center District provided the business meets the definition as a restaurant, pub or a special event facility as defined in section 6-1 or during any special event or catering event that is approved by the board of commission.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-20; Ord. No. 12-23.1-91, § 1, 12-23-1991; Ord. No. 12122016(2) , § 6-20, 12-12-2016; Ord. No. 10062018(2), § 6-20, 10-8-2018; Ord. No. 08122019(1), § 6-20, 8-12-2019)
Sec. 4-17. - Entry by minors prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to enter a Class III establishment other than law enforcement personnel or persons associated with regulatory agencies. Those Class III licensed establishments meeting the definition of restaurant shall be exempt from this section.
(b)
Bowling alleys. Notwithstanding anything contained in this section to the contrary, a bowling alley which is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross revenues either from the rental of bowling lanes and bowling equipment, or from the combination of the rental of bowling lanes, bowling equipment and the sale of prepared meals and other food products is exempt from the provisions of this section which prohibits the entry by minors in a Class III licensed establishment.
(c)
Entry of minors is prohibited in the areas, space or rooms of the bowling alley where the primary purpose is for consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 6-21; Ord. No. 06-29.2-94, 6-29-1994; Ord. No. 06102013 , 6-10-2013)
Secs. 4-18—4-37. - Reserved.
