CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - LEGISLATION
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Legislation Date Section Section
this Charter
Ord. No. 12-10.02-01 12-10-2001 1 1.12
  Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - AD VALOREM TAX HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[1]
AN ACT
To provide a $10,000.00 homestead exemption from City of Douglas ad valorem taxes for residents of that city who are age 65 years or over and who have adjusted gross income not exceeding $10,000.00; to provide for all matters relative thereto; to provide for a referendum; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1988 Georgia Laws page 4282. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. The word "Section" has been changed to "Sec." in catchlines. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Definitions.
For purposes of this Act, the term "homestead" means such term as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40].
Sec. 2. - Exemption granted.
Each resident of the City of Douglas, Georgia, who is 65 years of age or over is granted an exemption from City of Douglas ad valorem taxes in the amount of $10,000.00 on a homestead owned and occupied by such person if the resident's adjusted gross income, together with the adjusted gross income of the resident's spouse who also occupies and resides at such homestead, does not exceed $10,000.00 for the immediately preceding taxable year for income tax purposes. For the purposes of this Act, the term "adjusted gross income" shall have the same meaning as that term is defined in the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended. The value of the residence in excess of the above-exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
Sec. 3. - Application forms.
The governing authority of the City of Douglas or its designee shall [provide] application forms for the exemption granted by this Act and shall require such information, including copies of federal income tax returns, as may be necessary to determine eligibility for the exemption.
Sec. 4. - Manner of claiming; renewal or ineligibility notice.
The exemption provided for by this Act shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1]. The exemption shall be renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Act to notify the governing authority of the City of Douglas or its designee in the event that such person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
Sec. 5. - Inapplicable to school, county or state taxes.
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect any county school taxes, state taxes, or county taxes for county purposes.
Sec. 6. - Exemption in lieu of other homestead exemptions.
The exemption granted by this Act shall be in lieu of any other homestead exemption from City of Douglas ad valorem taxes.
Sec. 7. - When exemption begins.
The exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1989.
Sec. 8. - Administration.
The exemption granted by this Act shall be administered and granted by the governing authority of the City of Douglas or its designee in the same manner as provided by general law; and, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Act, all provisions of general law shall apply to the exemption granted by this Act.
Sec. 9. - Referendum.
Unless prohibited by the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, the election superintendent of the City of Douglas shall call and conduct an election as provided in this section for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of the City of Douglas for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall set the date of such election for the date of the municipal general election on the first Tuesday in June in 1989 and shall issue the call therefor not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to that date. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Coffee County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the word
"() YES
() NO
Shall the Act be approved which grants a $10,000.00 homestead exemption from City of Douglas ad valorem taxes to each resident who is 65 years of age or over if such resident's adjusted gross income does not exceed $10,000.00?"
All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, it shall become of full force and effect immediately. If the Act is not so approved or if the election is not conducted as provided in this section, the remaining sections of this Act shall be void and of no force and effect and shall be automatically repealed upon the date the election results are certified under this section.
The expense of such election shall be borne by the City of Douglas. It shall be the superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
Sec. 10. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
