ARTICLE XIII. - COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT, C-1

Section 1300. - Purpose and intent.
The Community Commercial District is intended to provide for limited small-scale commercial uses of a convenience nature serving nearby residential communities as opposed to a regional market. This district is not intended to accommodate automotive or other types of more intensive commercial activities that are of such magnitude or type that would result in the generation of excessive traffic noise, odors, pollution, safety hazards, or other adverse impacts which detract from the desirability of adjacent properties for residential and agricultural use. In general, the Community Commercial District includes retail and service establishments and provides suitable areas for the development of offices and professional enterprises, but excludes those highway oriented uses which involve the use of chemicals, outside sales, storage or display. This district is also intended to apply to areas with a transitional character, where such permitted uses provide a buffer or transition between more intensive non-residential uses and residential districts. No structure in the Community Commercial District shall exceed 20,000 square feet.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1301. - Permitted uses.
1.
Accessory uses and structures normally incidental and subordinate to one or more permitted uses.
2.
Antique shops.
3.
Art and school supply stores.
4.
Automated car washes, as an accessory to convenience stores with retail gasoline.
5.
Bakeries and other food or beverage production, including micro-breweries.
6.
Banks and financial institutions, including drive-in, drive-through, and automatic teller facilities as accessory uses.
7.
Barbershops, beauty shops, nail salons, tanning salons.
8.
Books, card or office supplies stores.
9.
Clothes pressing, alteration, rental and sales, but not including department stores.
10.
Convenience food and retail stores.
11.
Day care centers.
12.
Drugstores, gift shops and pharmacies.
13.
Drycleaners and laundromats.
14.
Electronic and communication equipment and software sales and repair.
15.
Food and grocery stores.
16.
Food catering establishments.
17.
Florist shops, nurseries and garden stores.
18.
General and hardware stores.
19.
Instructional studios.
20.
Interior decorating and paint stores.
21.
Jewelry stores, watch and clock sales and repair.
22.
Libraries, museums, and art galleries.
23.
Locksmith shops.
24.
Music stores.
25.
Offices, business, medical, professional, insurance, real estate and travel agencies.
26.
Photography studios and shops.
27.
Printing, reproductions and photocopying services.
28.
Public and semi-public buildings, structures and uses.
29.
Restaurants, sandwich shops, brew pubs, coffee shops.
30.
Small appliance repair and sales, provided that storage yards or areas are located at the rear of the property and are fenced and screened.
31.
Sporting goods and related.
32.
Toy and other retail stores.
33.
Workout and exercise facilities.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 1302. - Conditional uses.
1.
Cemeteries, churches, temples, synagogues and places of worship set back 50 feet from all property lines.
2.
Clubs, lodges, fraternal institutions and other places of public assembly for membership groups, non-profit or profit, not to exceed 10,000 square feet.
3.
Residences, single-family attached units and detached cottage units, and multi-family.
4.
Public, private and parochial schools and related educational institutions not offered for profit.
5.
Storage space rental facilities (mini-storage), where no individual storage stall or compartment exceeds 500 square feet of total floor area; not to exceed two acres, are fenced, set back 35 feet from the side and rear property lines and screened at side and rear of the property; outdoor storage is prohibited.
6.
Temporary sales for Christmas trees, farmers markets, firewood, etc.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
