ARTICLE 9. - STORM DRAINAGE AND UTILITIES

Section 901. - Easements.
Where a subdivision or land development is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater or drainage easement of minimum 20 feet in width. Easements for storm pipes shall be at least ten feet wide, and all easements shall be provided for all drainage facilities as approved by the director of public works. Where easements are needed for utility locations, they shall be provided by the subdivider or land developer to the appropriate utility provider. Easements having a minimum width of 15 feet shall be provided, where required for utility lines and underground mains and cables. Where easements are needed for public water and/or sanitary sewer lines, they shall be provided as determined appropriate by the director of public works but shall be no less than 20 feet wide. All easements required pursuant to this section shall be shown on the preliminary plat if required, final plat if required, and development plans.
Section 902. - Storm drainage system.
No land shall be platted and no land shall be developed except in accordance with stormwater management standards provided in this resolution and additional specifications adopted by the director of public works. At a minimum, storm drainage in subdivisions and land developments shall meet the following requirements.
The storm drains along with catch basins and manholes shall be installed in compliance with the plans and specifications, and as indicated herein.
1.
Every subdivision or land development shall be served by storm drainage facilities, including drains, sewers, catch basins, culverts and other facilities as required by standards and specifications of the director of public works.
2.
All drainage facilities shall be so designed to serve the entire drainage area in which these facilities are located. All street drains serving lots in the subdivision shall be installed by the subdivider. A formula may be developed by the director of public works to provide for a sharing of the cost of other drainage facilities needed to serve the subdivision when certain of the required drainage facilities are necessary to serve other subdivisions in the same drainage basin.
3.
Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the rational method, or other methods as approved by the director of public works, and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along with required plans. Capacity for a ten-year storm or rain shall be provided for all street drainage structures such as catch basins, inlets cross drains, etc. Capacity for a 100-year frequency storm event shall be provided for all main drainage structures such as retention basins, principal storm sewers, and all types of flood protection works.
4.
All surface water drainage shall be transported to existing storm sewers or to drainage facilities approved by the director of public works. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot or land development site to adjacent lots, land development sites, or vacant properties. Storm water shall not be discharged directly to perennial streams. It shall be directed toward natural drainages. If water must be discharged to a stream, the water quality flowing into the stream must meet or exceed the water quality in the receiving waters. The water quantity flowing into the stream must be evaluated to ensure the stream channel can accommodate the increased flows and not disrupt or degrade the ecology of the water body.
5.
Whenever drainage ditches are used, such ditches shall retain natural design characteristics and be so designed that they do not present a hazard to life and safety or create erosion problems.
6.
All drainage features shall be in accordance with standards and specifications of the director of public works, and no extension shall be made from the street drainage through the abutting property without approval of the director of public works.
7.
When the construction of a proposed public road makes it necessary to cross a storm drain, the developer shall provide and install the required size and length of an acceptable grade of pipe.
a.
In cases where the developer or subdivider chooses not to develop the land through which the drain runs, then the trench may be left open; provided, however, in such cases the plat must be so marked and an easement shown thereon, indicating that no building or driveway shall be built over or within 40 feet of the open drain.
b.
Where the developer chooses to leave the drain open and same is crossed by a driveway, the size of pipe shall be determined by the director of public works and no building permit will be approved unless the installation meets the requirements of the director of public works.
c.
Notwithstanding the above controls, the chief building official may refuse to issue a building permit on any lot or lots where the land is subject to floods.
Section 903. - Water system.
All water mains, where provided, shall be installed along with a service connection for each lot or land development and be in operating condition prior to final plat approval if required and paving installation. The water system shall be connected to the county water authority's water system unless another source approved by the county health department is accepted by the planning commission. All pipes, valves, and other components shall conform to county water authority and county health department regulations and specifications of the director of public works.
An applicant may propose and the health department and planning commission may approve water supply to be served by a community water system.
Section 904. - Fire hydrants.
Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 1,000 feet apart. Hydrants, fittings, valves and fire department connections shall be approved by the fire department. Fire department connections shall be not less than 18 inches or more than 36 inches above the level of the adjoining ground or paving. The thread of such connections shall be uniform with that used by the fire department. To eliminate repavement of streets, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves, and all other supply improvements shall be installed before any final paving of a street within the right-of-way shared by such underground utilities.
Section 905. - Sanitary sewerage system.
When in the written opinion of the county health department, public sanitary sewers are within reasonable access of the subdivision or land development, the subdivider or land developer shall provide sanitary sewer services to each lot within the bounds of the subdivision, or to the land development. All street sewers serving lots in the subdivision shall be installed by the subdivider.
When in the written opinion of the county health department, a public sanitary sewer is not accessible; an alternate method of sewage disposal for each lot or the land development may be used when in compliance with the standards of the county health department. If public sewerage is not available, but is expected to be available within a reasonable time period after completion of the subdivision or land development, an alternate method for sewage disposal for individual lots or the land development will be required on an interim basis. In this instance, unless otherwise determined by the planning commission, the developer will be required to construct a complete sanitary sewer system for the subdivision or land development, including outfall lines, street sewers, and service stubs to individual lots. All sewers will be plugged and otherwise protected to insure serviceability at the time of connection to the public system, and will conform to the specifications of the county water authority and the director of public works.
Section 906. - Utilities.
The electric system and any other underground utility system, when it is provided in a subdivision or land development, shall be installed along with service connections before any paving of streets. All utility facilities, including but not limited to electric power, telephone, and cable television, shall be located underground throughout the subdivision or land development.
