ARTICLE III. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS PROVISION FOR OFFICIAL LAND USE MAP

Section 301. - Use districts.
For the purpose of this resolution, White County is hereby divided into use districts as set out below:
EXPAND
A-I, Agriculture Forestry District
R-I, Residential Single-Family District
R-II, Residential Multi-Family District
R-III, Seasonal Residential District
C-I, Community Commercial District
C-II, Highway Business District
I, Industrial District
PD, Planned Development Overlay District
  (Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 302. - Official land use map.
The location and boundaries of the above districts are hereby established as shown on a map entitled "Official Land Use Map of White County, Georgia." Said map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this resolution.
The official land use map shall be identified by the signature of the county commission chairman, attested by the county clerk, and bear the following words: "This is to certify that this is the Official Land Use Map referred to in Article III of the Land Use Resolution, White County, Georgia," together with the date of the adoption of the resolution.
If in accordance with the provisions of this resolution and the applicable laws of the State of Georgia, changes are made in boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official land use map, such changes shall be entered on the official land use map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the governing body with appropriate entry or indication of such amendment on the official land use map. No amendment to this resolution which involves matter portrayed on the official land use map shall become effective until after such changes and entry has been made on said map.
No changes of any nature shall be made on the official land use map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this resolution. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this resolution.
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official land use map which may from time to time be made or published, the official land use map shall be located in the office of the planning commission and shall be the final authority as to the current land use status of land and water areas, buildings, and other structures in the county.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 303. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
303.1 Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streets or highways, street right-of-way lines or such lines extended, such centerline, street right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
303.2 Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the corporate limit line of a city or county, such corporate limit line shall be construed to be such boundaries.
303.3 Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following property lines or such lines extended, such property lines or such lines extended, as indicated by boundary survey, deed or legal description maintained in the official file of said land use adoption or amendment, if available, shall be construed to be such boundaries.
303.4 Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of stream beds or river beds, such centerline shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 304. - Boundary line divides a lot of single ownership.
Where a boundary line as appearing on the official land use map divides a lot in single ownership at the time of the enactment of this resolution, the requirements for the district in which the greater portion of the lot lies may be extended to the balance of the lot without recourse or amendment procedure, provided that this provision shall not apply to a double frontage lot. In the case of a double frontage lot, the restrictions of the district applying to the adjoining lots which front on the same street as the lot frontage in question shall apply.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
Section 305. - Designation after street abandonment.
Where a public street, ally or other right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which is reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned public street, alley, or right-of-way.
(Res. No. 2019-09, 6-4-19)
