ARTICLE VII. - VARIANCES

Sec. 6-160. - Variances.
(a)
Administration by the alcoholic beverage commission. The alcoholic beverage commission has the responsibility for administration of this section. A variance cannot be considered if a violation of the county code has occurred. A variance shall be sought prior to the application for a license or as part of an initial application for a license.
(b)
Purpose. The purpose of a variance is to provide relief when the strict application of the statutes, codes or policies imposes unusual practical difficulties or unnecessary physical hardships on the applicant.
(c)
Criteria for granting a variance.
(1)
Based on the application, evidence submitted by the applicant, investigations by the alcohol beverage commission or board of commissioners, all four of the following findings shall exist in order to grant a variance:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular situation; and
b.
The application of this chapter to the particular situation would create an unnecessary hardship; and
c.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the quality of life for the community or impair the purposes and intent of this chapter; and
d.
The special circumstances surrounding the request for a variance are not the result of acts by the applicant.
(d)
Variances shall not be granted:
(1)
If the special circumstances on which the applicant relies are a result of the actions of the applicant, owner or previous owners; or
(2)
To allow the use of property in a manner or for a purpose not authorized by the statutes, codes or policies.
(e)
Application requirements. The applicant or duly authorized agent shall file an application for variances with the alcoholic beverage commission on the prescribed form. A complete application shall consist of:
(1)
Variance request form;
(2)
Copy of code section from which the variance is being requested;
(3)
Correspondence clearly stating the basis for the variance request;
(4)
Supporting documentation necessary to give the alcoholic beverage commission a clear understanding of the request.
(5)
A review fee of $100.00.
(f)
Appeal to the board of commissioners. Decisions or actions of the alcoholic beverage commission are subject to an appeal to the board of commissioners. However, the alcoholic beverage commission's action or decision shall remain in full force and effect pending such appeal.
(g)
Conditions.
(1)
Reasonable conditions may be imposed in connection with the granting of a variance as deemed necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or neighborhood and otherwise secure the purpose and requirements of this chapter.
(2)
Guarantees and evidence shall be required that such conditions are and will continue to be in compliance.
(h)
Compliance with conditions approval. Adherence to the approved plans and compliance with conditions imposed in the variance are required. Any departure from conditions of approval constitutes a violation of this chapter.
(i)
Vested interest in approved variances. A valid variance supersedes conflicting provisions or amendments unless specifically provided by the provisions of this chapter or the conditions.
(j)
Investigations and reports. The alcoholic beverage commission shall make an investigation to provide necessary information to insure that the action on each application is consistent with the variance criteria. Any report of such investigation shall be included in the application file.
(k)
Revocation. Variances shall become invalid if not exercised within one year of the date of approval or if there is a change in ownership not otherwise noted and approved at the time of the granting of the variance.
(l)
Limitations on reapplication. The alcoholic beverage commission shall not hear denied applications for the same or substantially similar variance application until a period of six months has elapsed.
(Ord. No. 2008-38, 12-16-08)
