ARTICLE III. - WATERSHED PROTECTION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 2004-25, §§ I—XI, adopted July 6, 2004, has been treated by the editor as repealing former art. III, §§ 30-101—30-109, and adding a new art. III. Former art. III pertained to Turner Creek watershed protection; and derived from Res. No. 98-26, adopted September 1, 1998.

Sec. 30-101. - Title.
This article will be known as the "Water Supply Watershed Protection Resolution for White County."
(Res. No. 2004-25, § I, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-102. - Establishment of a water supply watershed district.
The county water supply watershed districts are hereby designated and shall comprise the land that drains into the Turner Creek water supply watershed and the Chattahoochee River which is the public water supply intake for Demorest/Baldwin Water System. The boundaries of these overlays are defined by the ridgelines of the respective watersheds and the boundary radius of seven miles upstream of the Chattahoochee River at the Demorest/Baldwin public water intake. These overlays shall be further delineated and defined on the water supply watershed protection districts overlay map of the county. The map is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this article by reference.
The following water supply watershed districts and reservoirs are hereby defined and the boundaries shall be identified on the water supply watershed district overlay map.
(1)
The Turner Creek watershed is a small water supply watershed with an intake for the county water authority located on Turner Creek. This water supply watershed contains a reservoir that is leased by the county water authority and is in the jurisdiction of the county. The county water authority is responsible for the protection of this reservoir. The normal pool level elevation for this reservoir is 1476.6 feet in elevation.
(2)
The Demorest/Baldwin Watershed is a large water supply watershed(more than 100 square miles) with an intake on the Chattahoochee River below the mouth of the Soque River. This water supply watershed does not contain a reservoir.
(Res. No. 2004-25, § II, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-103. - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this article, unless otherwise specifically stated:
Agriculture. Agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. 1-3-3 to include those practices involving the establishment, cultivation, or harvesting of products of the field or orchard; the preparation and planting of pasture land; forestry land management practices, including harvesting; farm ponds; dairy operations; livestock and poultry management practices; and the construction of farm buildings.
Buffer. A natural or enhanced vegetated area with no or limited minor land disturbances
Corridor. All land within the buffer and/or setback area.
Impervious surface. A man-made structure or surface which prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure or surface. Examples are buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, patios.
Perennial stream. A stream which flows throughout the whole year as indicated on USGA Quad map.
Reservoir. The Turner Creek Reservoir.
Reservoir boundary. The edge of a water supply reservoir defined by its normal pool level.
SARA toxic release chemicals. Super Fund Amendment and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Title III.
Utility. Public or private water or sewer piping, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and railroads or other utilities identified by local government.
Water supply reservoir. A government-owned impoundment of water for the primary purpose of providing water to one or more governmentally owned public drinking water systems.
Water supply watershed. The area of land upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water intake. (See Attachment "A")
Water supply watershed protection plan. The land use plan prepared and adopted by local governments for the protection of the quality of drinking water obtained from the water supply watershed.
(Res. No. 2004-25, § III, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-104. - Restrictions.
(a)
Watershed criteria for the Turner Creek water supply watershed. The perennial stream corridors of the Turner Creek water supply watersheds (which includes the stream heads of the water supply streams) are protected by the following criteria:
(1)
A buffer shall be maintained for a distance of 100 feet on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks.
(2)
No impervious surface shall be constructed within a 150-foot setback area on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks.
(3)
Septic tanks and septic tank drain fields are prohibited in the setback area of (2) above.
(4)
Hazardous waste treatment or disposal facilities are prohibited in the watershed protected area, including, but not limited to hazardous materials of the types listed in Section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976.
(5)
Only land-disturbing activities that are permitted by this article and are approved by the county planning commission through use of best management practices or that have an approved erosion and sedimentation control plan from the Upper Chattahoochee Soil and Water Conservation District will be allowed within the watershed drainage area of the intake.
(6)
All permitted and acceptable land disturbing activities will be properly vegetated or re-vegetated immediately with appropriate grasses or legumes.
(7)
No sanitary landfills, hazardous waste treatment or disposal facilities will be allowed in the watershed drainage area.
(8)
Harvesting of forest products will be performed in accordance with a harvesting plan agreed to by the state forestry commission and an erosion and sediment control plan approved by the Upper Chattahoochee Soil and Water Conservation District.
(9)
Forestry management within the watershed drainage area will follow the state forestry commission's best management practices guidelines for streamside management zones, stream crossings, access roads and their construction, timber harvesting, site preparation, reforestation and forest protection (prescribed burning, firelines, and chemical fire retardant).
(10)
No new land application of animal or poultry waste will be allowed without approved nutrient management plan. Such plan will be prepared by either the natural resource conservation services or UGA cooperative extension service.
(11)
Broad use of chemical agents such as pesticides are prohibited within the buffer.
(12)
Fires or burning on the stream banks are not authorized.
(13)
No new industrial development will be allowed in the watershed drainage area. New commercial developments shall be restricted to a 25 percent impervious surface area and a lot size minimum of five acres within the watershed drainage area.
(14)
It shall be the responsibility of every land owner, developer or builder to submit plans for land use alterations within the watershed drainage area to the county planning commission for approval.
(15)
The impervious surface area, including all public and private structures, utilities, or other facilities, of the entire water supply watershed shall be limited to twenty-five (25) percent or existing use, whichever is greater.
(b)
Watershed criteria for the Demorest/Baldwin water supply watershed. The perennial stream corridors of the Chattahoochee River water supply watersheds (which includes the stream heads of the water supply streams) are protected by the following criteria:
(1)
Hazardous waste facilities are prohibited in the watershed protected area including, but not limited to hazardous materials of the types listed in Section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976.
(Res. No. 2004-25, § IV, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-105. - Exemptions.
(a)
Land uses existing prior to promulgation of water supply watershed protection resolution will be exempt from the provisions this article.
(b)
Mining activities permitted by the Department of Natural Resources under the Surface Mining Act may be exempt from the provisions of water supply watershed protection resolution.
(c)
Utilities may be exempt from the stream corridor buffer and setback area provisions of water supply watershed protection resolution in accordance with the following conditions, if the utilities to be located in the buffer or setback areas cannot feasibly be located outside these areas:
(1)
The utilities shall be located as far from the stream bank as reasonably possible.
(2)
The installation and maintenance of the utilities shall be such to protect the integrity of buffer and setback areas as best as reasonably possible. This shall include, but not be limited to the replanting, refurbishing, and/or otherwise repairing the buffer or setback area as near to its original state as feasibly possible.
(3)
The utilities (nor the installation thereof) shall not impair the quality of the drinking water stream.
(d)
Forestry and agriculture may be exempt from the stream corridor buffer and setback area provisions of water supply watershed protection resolution in accordance with section 30-103(8), (9), and (10) and the following conditions:
(1)
The activity shall be consistent with best management practices established by the state forestry commission or the state department of agriculture.
(2)
The activity shall not impair the quality of the drinking water stream.
(Res. No. 2004-25, § V, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-106. - Application/permit process.
(a)
General. The landowner, developer and designated planners and engineers are encouraged to review the general development plans of a proposed site and the areas surrounding it. They are also encouraged to review the regulations, conditions and restrictions that affect such site as promulgated by any unit of government, state, local and federal, including, but not limited to, the county building and inspection regulations, county land subdivision regulations, county soil erosion and sediment control resolution, county comprehensive land use plan and this watershed protection resolution.
(b)
Permits.
(1)
No separate permit shall be issued under this article; however, when permits for grading, construction or development is requested from the applicable issuing authorities in the county (the county planning commission and/or county building inspections department), sufficient data to determine applicability of this article to the proposed activity shall be included in the application. The regulations herein set out shall apply to any land disturbing activity or development; and, the exemption from the requirement of a permit under the county soil erosion and sediment control regulations, the county land subdivision regulations or the county building inspection regulations does not relieve the activity from the regulations and penalties under this article.
(2)
From the effective date of this article, all applications for such activities described in subsection (b)(1) above shall include information as to the location of the proposed site of the activity in relation to the protected watershed.
(3)
The issuing authority of the permits set out in subsection (b)(1) above shall be responsible for inspections and enforcement of the regulations set out herein.
(4)
No permits as set out in subsection (b)(1) above shall be issued to any applicant unless the issuing authority affirmatively determines that the plan embracing such activities meets the requirements of this article.
(Res. No. 2004-25, § VI, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-107. - Variances, inspection, enforcement, and miscellaneous provisions.
See chapter 30, article IX, sections 30-343, 30-344, 30-345 and 30-346 for regulations on variances, inspection, enforcement, and miscellaneous provisions.
(Res. No. 2007-18, 4-3-07)
Editor's note— Res. No. 2007-18, adopted April 3, 2007, amended the Code by repealing former §§ 30-107—30-111, and adding a new § 30-107. Former §§ 30-107—30-111 pertained to variances, inspection, enforcement, penalties and incentives, and liability, respectively, and derived from Res. No. 2004-25, adopted July 6, 2004.
Secs. 30-108—30-120. - Reserved.
