ARTICLE IV. - UNFIT DWELLINGS

Sec. 14-141. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Closing means securing and causing a dwelling, building, or structure to be vacated.
Drug crime means an act which is a violation of O.C.G.A. § 16-13-20 et seq., known as the "Georgia Controlled Substances Act."
Dwellings, buildings, or structures means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any building or structure of any design. As used in this article, the term "dwellings, buildings, or structures" shall not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm, or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage, or process of crops, livestock, poultry, or other farm products.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of the property and all individuals, associations, and corporations who have interest of record in a dwelling, building, or structure located on the property in the county, including executors, administrators, guardians, and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the county or state relating to health, fire, or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings, or structures in the county.
Public officer means the county administrator or his designee.
Repair means closing a dwelling, building, or structure or the cleaning or removal of debris, trash, and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building, or structure.
Resident means any person residing in the county on or before the alleged nuisance arose.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 1, 6-4-96)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 14-142. - Administrative officer.
The county administrator is designated and appointed to exercise the powers prescribed in this article.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 2, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-143. - Complaint; hearing.
Whenever a request is filed with the county administrator by a public authority or by at least five residents of the unincorporated area of the county charging that any dwelling, building, or structure located in the unincorporated area of the county is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use or whenever it appears to the county administrator (on his own motion) that any dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use or is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes, the county administrator shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and any parties in interest in such dwelling, building, or structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the county administrator or his designated agent at a place within the county, fixed not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of such complaint; that the owner and any parties in interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the county administrator.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 3, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-144. - Service of notice.
(a)
Complaints or orders issued by the county administrator pursuant to this article shall, in all cases, be served upon each person in possession of the property complained against as provided in section 14-143, each owner, and each party in interest; and the return of service signed by the county administrator or his agent or an affidavit of service executed by any citizen of this state, reciting that a copy of such complaint or orders was served upon each person in possession of such property, each owner, and each party in interest personally or by leaving such copy at the place of his residence, shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person in possession, owner, and party in interest.
(b)
If any of the owners and parties in interest shall reside out of the county, service shall be perfected by causing a copy of such complaint or orders to be served upon such party or parties by the sheriff or any lawful deputy of the county of the residence of such party or parties or such service may be made by any citizen; and the return of such sheriff or lawful deputy or the affidavit of such citizen that such party or parties were served either personally or by leaving a copy of the complaint or orders at the residence shall be conclusive as to such service.
(c)
Nonresidents of this state shall be served by posting a copy of such complaint or orders in a conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaint or orders. Where the address of such nonresidents is known, a copy of such complaint or orders shall be mailed to them by registered or certified mail.
(d)
If either the owner or any party in interest is a minor or an insane person or person laboring under disabilities, the guardian or other personal representative of such person shall be served and if such guardian or personal representative resides outside the county or is a nonresident, he shall be served as provided for in subsection (c) of this section or this subsection in such cases. If such minor or insane person or person laboring under disabilities has no guardian or personal representative or if such minor or insane person lives outside the county or is a nonresident, service shall be perfected by serving such minor or insane person personally or by leaving a copy at the place of his residence which shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person or persons; in the case of other persons who live outside of the county or are nonresidents, service shall be perfected by serving the probate court judge who shall stand in the place of and protect the rights of such minor or insane persons or appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
(e)
If the whereabouts of any owner or party in interest is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the county administrator in the exercise of reasonable diligence and the county administrator shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the service of such complaint or order upon such persons shall be made in the same manner as provided in subsection (c) of this section or service may be perfected upon any person holding itself out as an agent for the property involved.
(f)
A copy of such complaint or orders shall also be filed in the office of the clerk of court, the office for the filing of lis pendens notice in the county and such filing of the complaint or orders shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law. Any such complaint or orders or an appropriate lis pendens notice may contain a statement to the effect that a lien may arise against the described property and that an itemized statement of such lien is maintained on a lien docket maintained by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 4, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-145. - Contents of complaint, notice.
The complaint and notice of requests for a public hearing shall include the following:
(1)
Location of dwelling, building, or structure.
(2)
Type of defect(s) or hazard described in detail.
(3)
Explanation of potential injury or threat to safety or health.
(4)
Statement as to why the structure is unfit for habitation.
(5)
Citation of any and all code or ordinance violations.
(6)
Name and address of owner of dwelling, building, or structure.
(7)
Names and addresses of all parties in interest.
(8)
Recommended action to be taken.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 5, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-146. - Conditions for determination.
The county administrator may determine, under this article and other applicable provisions of this Code or law, that a dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling, or structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building, or structure; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings, or structures; or of other residents of the county. Such conditions may include the following (without limiting the generality of the foregoing):
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities.
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities.
(3)
Disrepair.
(4)
Structural defects.
(5)
Uncleanliness.
(6)
Interior or exterior bearing walls, or other vertical structural members list, lean, or buckle, to such extent as to weaken the structural support of such member or members below the minimum required to be accepted as safe by generally accepted standards.
(7)
There are parts which are so attached that they are likely to fall and injure persons or property.
(8)
Which are in whole or in part so dilapidated, decayed, damaged from any cause, or deteriorated in any manner that they are likely to cause injury to persons or property.
(9)
There are weakened, defective or deteriorated:
a.
Footings or foundations,
b.
Floorings or floor supports,
c.
Ceilings or ceiling support, or
d.
Roof or chimney.
(10)
There is visible soil erosion adjacent to or under any structural support.
(11)
Which are likely to cause injury to persons or property in the event of windstorm, fire, earthquake, panic or other catastrophe because of inadequate stairways, elevators, escalators, fire escapes or other means of egress.
(12)
Which are likely to cause injury to persons or property because they have defective or inadequate plumbing, improper sanitation facilities, insufficient ventilation, or lack of running water.
(13)
Which constitute fire hazards and are dangerous to persons or property.
(14)
Which are vacant, and because of lack of proper maintenance, deterioration or decay, are fire hazards or are otherwise dangerous to human life, safety, health or morals.
(15)
That a dwelling, building, or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes upon personal observation or report of a law enforcement agency and evidence of drug crimes being committed.
(16)
There is an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth, and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions which create a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 6, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-147. - Findings, order.
(a)
If, after notice and hearing, the county administrator determines that the dwelling, building, or structure under consideration is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use or is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order:
(1)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial, or business use or to vacate and close the dwelling, building, or structure as a human habitation; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling, building, or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such dwelling, building, or structure.
(b)
In no event shall the board of commissioners require removal or demolition of any dwelling, building, or structure except upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration, or improvement thereof exceeds one-half the value such dwelling, building, or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this article.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 7, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-148. - Order to repair, alter, improve property; placard.
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the county administrator may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. The county administrator may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building, dwelling, or structure closed, pursuant to this section, a placard with the following words:
This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use is prohibited and unlawful.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 8, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-149. - Correction of conditions by county.
If the owner fails to comply with any order to remove or demolish any dwelling, building, or structure, pursuant to this article, the county administrator may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be removed or demolished. The duties of the county administrator, set forth in section 14-148 and this section, shall not be exercised until the board of commissioners shall have by resolution ordered the county administrator to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this article with respect to the particular property or properties which the county administrator shall have found to be unfit for human habitation or unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, which property or properties shall be described in such resolution.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 9, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-150. - Declaration of lien, enforcement.
(a)
The amount of the cost of such vacating and closing or removal or demolition by the county administrator shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Such lien shall be attached to the real property upon the payment of all costs of demolition by the county and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of such costs by the county administrator in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners on a lien docket maintained by the clerk for such purposes.
(b)
If the dwelling, building, or structure is removed or demolished by the county administrator, he shall sell the materials of such dwellings, buildings, or structures and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the county administrator, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court, and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court.
(c)
The collection of any amount due on such lien for removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings, or structures shall be in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties at interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the county within 30 days after the perfection of such lien, a sum of money equal to 25 percent of the total amount due and by further paying to the county the remaining balance due on such lien, together with interest at the rate of seven percent per annum, in three equal annual payments, each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of initial payment made as prescribed in this subsection;
(2)
Should the property upon which such lien is perfected be sold, transferred, or conveyed by the owner or parties at interest at any time prior to the termination of the three-year period, then the entire balance due on such lien shall be due and payable to the county; and
(3)
Should the amount due on such lien, or any portion thereof, be unpaid after the passage of such three-year period, or upon the occurrence of the contingency provided for in section (2) of this section, the county may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of dwellings, buildings, or structures in the same manner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358 and other applicable state statutes. This procedure shall be subject to the right of redemption by any person having any right, title, or interest in or lien upon said property, all as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40 et seq.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 10, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-151. - Powers available for enforcement of article.
The county administrator may exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this article and O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7 through 41-2-17, including the following powers granted in this article and in O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7 through 41-2-17:
(1)
To investigate the dwelling conditions in the unincorporated area of the county in order to determine which dwellings, buildings, or structures therein are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial, or business use or are vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes;
(2)
To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence;
(3)
To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(4)
To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this article; and
(5)
To delegate any of his functions and powers under this article to such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 11, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-152. - Nuisance procedures not impaired.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the county to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 12, 6-4-96)
Sec. 14-153. - Appeal to superior court.
Any person affected by an order issued by the county administrator under this article may appeal to the superior court as provided in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-13, however, such person shall present such petition to the court within 15 days of the posting and service of the order of the county administrator.
(Res. No. 96-21, § 13, 6-4-96)
Secs. 14-154—14-185. - Reserved.
