ARTICLE V. - RIVER CORRIDOR PROTECTION

Sec. 30-141. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "River Corridor Protection Resolution of White County."
(Res. No. 2004-24, § I, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-142. - Applicability.
The standards and procedures detailed in this article shall be applicable to all areas in the unincorporated county and all state owned or administered land.
(Res. No. 2004-24, § II, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-143. - Protection criteria.
(a)
A 100-foot natural vegetative buffer shall be maintained at all times within the protected river corridor except as otherwise provided herein.
(b)
Septic tanks and septic tank drainfields are prohibited within the river corridor, except as provided in section 30-144(1)d. of this article.
(c)
The natural vegetative buffer shall be restored as quickly as possible following any land-disturbing activity within the river corridor.
(Res. No. 2004-24, § III, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-144. - Permitted activities within the river corridor.
The following uses are permitted in the river corridor, provided that such uses do not impair the long-term functions of the protected river or the river corridor.
(1)
Detached single-family dwellings and its customary appurtenances shall comply with all building codes and any other local regulations.
a.
The dwelling and its customary appurtenances shall comply with all building codes and any other local regulations.
b.
The dwelling must be located on a tract of land containing at least a two-acre or larger tract. For the purposes of these standards, any portion of the platted property that lies within the protected river (that is area between the river banks) cannot be counted in the calculations for minimum acre size.
c.
Only one dwelling is permitted on each two-acre or larger tract.
d.
Septic tank or tanks serving the dwelling may be located within the buffer.
e.
Septic tank drainfield shall not be located within the buffer.
(2)
Construction of road crossings and utility crossings within the river corridor shall be permitted provided that the construction meets all requirements of the Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act of 1975, as amended, and any applicable local ordinances pertaining to soil erosion and sedimentation control.
(3)
Industrial and commercial land uses existing prior to the effective date of this article are exempt from the protection criteria of this article, except as provided in section 30-146, provided that the activity does not impair the drinking quality of the river water as defined by the Clean Water Act, as amended, and the activity meets all state and federal environmental rules and regulations.
(4)
Timber production and harvesting provided that the activity is consistent with the Georgia Forestry Commissions best management practices and the activity does not impair the drinking quality of the river water as defined by the Clean Water Act, as amended.
(5)
Wildlife and fisheries management activities consistent with the purposes of O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8.
(6)
Wastewater treatment.
(7)
Recreational usage consistent with either the maintenance of a natural vegetative buffer or with river-dependent recreation.
(8)
Natural water quality treatment or purification.
(9)
Agricultural production and management provided that the activity is consistent with the state soil and water conservation commission's best management practices and the activity does not impair the drinking quality of the river water as defined by the Clean Water Act, as amended. Additionally, the activity must be consistent with all other state and federal laws and state department of agriculture regulations.
(10)
Any other uses permitted by the department of natural resources or under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(Res. No. 2004-24, § IV, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-145. - Prohibited activities within the river corridor.
Unless otherwise stated, the following activities are prohibited within the river corridor:
(1)
Hazardous waste or solid waste landfills, or construction and demolition (C&D) landfills.
(2)
Commercial or industrial uses that involve handling hazardous materials other than wastes.
(3)
Handling area for the receiving and storage or hazardous waste.
(4)
Construction within the river corridor is prohibited unless permitted in section 30-144 of this article.
(Res. No. 2004-24, § V, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-146. - Permit requirements and enforcement.
(a)
All persons desiring to undertake a permitted activity within a river corridor as mapped in the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, as amended January 27, l994, must first obtain a permit from White County. Permit applications shall be filed according to White County Erosion and Sediment Control Resolution, as amended.
(b)
Permits shall be issued only if the activity is in compliance with county regulations and other applicable state, federal, and local regulations. The county shall impose conditions on any permit necessary to assure that any adverse impacts upon the functions and values of the river corridor are prevented or kept to a minimum. Permits shall be valid for 12 months. If the activity has not been completed but substantial progress has been made, one 12-month extension to the permit may be granted by the planning commission.
(b)
Permits may be revoked for failure to comply with regulator guidelines, including conditions attached to the permit.
(Res. No. 2004-24, § VI, 7-6-04)
Sec. 30-147. - Variances, inspections, enforcement, and miscellaneous provisions.
See chapter 30, article IX, sections 30-343, 30-344, 30-345 and 30-346 for regulations on variances, inspections, enforcement, and miscellaneous provisions.
(Res. No. 2007-18, 4-3-07)
Editor's note— Res. No. 2007-18, adopted April 3, 2007, amended the Code by repealing former § 30-147, and adding a new § 30-147. Former § 30-147 pertained to variances, and derived from Res. No. 2004-24, adopted July 6, 2004.
Sec. 30-148. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Res. No. 2007-18, adopted April 3, 2007, amended the Code by repealing former § 30-148. Former § 30-148 pertained to appeals procedures, and derived from Res. No. 2004-24, adopted July 6, 2004.
Sec. 30-149. - Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the terms listed below shall be defined as follows:
Board. White county board of commissioners.
Buffer or buffer area. See "River Corridor."
Comprehensive plan. The comprehensive plan for the county dated April 14, l992, and as may be amended.
Contaminant. Any "regulated substance," as defined by the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as in effect on the date of passage of this article and as amended from time to time, and all petroleum products, including gasoline, oil, waste oils, and other fuels as well as their hazardous constituents.
County. White County, Georgia.
Hazardous material. Any "contaminant" as defined in this article, and any hazardous chemical for which a material safety data sheet must be filed under 42 USC 11021 and 11022.
Hazardous waste. Any solid waste which has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulation, promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency according to federal act, which are in force and effect on February 1, 1988, codified as 40 CFR 261.3.
Land-disturbing activity. Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state water or onto lands within the state including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land. Land disturbing activity shall not include activities such as ordinary maintenance and landscaping operations, individual home gardens, yard and grounds upkeep, repairs, additions or minor modifications to a single-family dwelling, or the cutting of firewood for personal use.
Land uses existing prior to the effective date of this article. Any land use or land-disturbing activity, including all human endeavors directly associated with such use or activity, which falls within one of the following categories prior to the effective date of this article [July 6, 2004]:
(1)
Is completed;
(2)
Is under construction;
(3)
Is fully approved by the county;
(4)
All materials have been submitted for approval by the county.
Natural vegetation buffer or buffer area. A river corridor containing the flora native to that area. The natural floras for specific areas are described in Georgia Geologic Survey Bulletin 114, "The Natural Environments of Georgia." Habitats for endangered and threatened species may require human management of the river corridor in order to maintain those species.
Perennial river. A river or section of a river that flows continuously throughout the year.
Person. Any individual, group of individuals, association, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, estate, organization, or legal entity of any kind, including municipal corporations, government agencies, or subdivisions thereof.
Protected river. Any perennial river or watercourse with an average annual flow of at least four hundred (400) cubic feet per second as determined by appropriate U.S. Geological Survey documents. However, those segments of the river covered by the Metropolitan River Protection Act or the Coastal Marshlands Protection Act are specifically excluded from the definition of a protected area. In coastal areas the seaward limit of any protected river shall be the inland limits of the jurisdiction of the Coastal Marshlands Protection Act. In the county, the protected river is the Chattahoochee River from the southern tip of Smith Island through its length to the Hall County line.
Public utility or utilities. A service or services provided by a public utility company or a private entity which provides such service or services and including all equipment and structures necessary to provide such services.
River bank. The rising ground, bordering a river, which serves to confine the water to the natural channel during the normal course of flow.
River corridor. All land, including islands, not regulated under the Metropolitan River Protection Act, O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-440 through 12-5-457 or the Coastal Marshlands Protection Act, O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-280 through 12-5-293, in areas of a protected river and being within 100 feet horizontally on both sides of the river as measured from the river banks. The 100-foot buffer shall be measured horizontally from the uppermost part of the river bank, usually marked by a break in slope, although not within the measured 100-foot wide buffer, the area between the top o the bank and the edge of the river shall be treated by local governments in the same manner as the river corridor. Because stream channels move due to natural processes such as meandering, riverbank erosion, and jumping of channels, the river corridor may shift with time. For the purpose of this article the river corridor shall be considered to be fixed at its position at the beginning of each review period for the local comprehensive plan as established by the department of community affairs. Any shift in the location of the protected river after the start of the review period will require a revision of the boundaries of the river corridor at the time of the next review by the department of community affairs.
River corridor protection plan. That part of the county comprehensive plan that deals with river corridor protection as required by the Georgia Planning Act of 1989.
Sensitive natural area. Any area, as identified now or hereafter by the department of natural resources, which contains one or more of the following:
(1)
Habitat, including nesting sites, occupied by rare or endangered species;
(2)
Rare or exemplary natural communities;
(3)
Significant landforms, hydroforms, or geological features; or
(4)
Other areas so designated by the department of natural resources; and which is sensitive or vulnerable to physical or biological alteration.
Single-family dwelling. A dwelling structure that is designed for use by one family.
Surface mining. Any activity constituting all or part of a process for the removal of minerals, ores, and dimension stone, and other solid matter for sale or for processing or for consumption in the regular operation of a business.
(Res. No. 2004-24, § X, 7-6-04)
Secs. 30-150—30-160. - Reserved.
