ARTICLE XII. - LICENSED WINE SPECIALTY SHOPS

Sec. 10-400. - Licensed specialty shop.
new
(a)
There is hereby created a license for the business of operating a wine specialty shop, but which shall be in conformance with the laws of the State of Georgia and this article. In order to operate a wine specialty shop within the City of Jasper, Georgia, the shop must be operated within the Central Business District (CBD) of the City of Jasper, Georgia, as defined by chapter 94 of the Code of Ordinances for the City of Jasper, and being the Jasper Zoning Ordinance, as amended. The operator shall also provide a copy of any alcoholic beverage license issued to the operator by the State of Georgia for the sale of alcoholic beverages, when issued. Applicant may receive a wine specialty shop license from the City of Jasper, Georgia, prior to the issuance of any State of Georgia license, but may not operate the wine specialty shop until such time as the applicant has received the applicable State of Georgia license, and provided a copy of said license to the City of Jasper, Georgia.
(b)
An applicant to receive an authorized wine specialty shop license shall be required to submit an application for said license based upon the wine for sale by the package application, but shall indicate thereon that applicant is applying as a wine specialty shop, and is required to meet the same requirements regarding application information, the submission of the application, distant prohibitions, and other such package requirements as provided by the Jasper Code, except as where applicable, wine specialty shops that front on Main Street within the Central Business District (CBD) shall be subject to the Main Street exemption provided within section 10-99 of the Jasper Code.
(c)
Under this article, the licensee of a wine specialty shop shall be authorized to carry on the business of a wine specialty shop within the Central Business District (CBD) as defined by chapter 94 of the Code of the City of Jasper. The licensee shall follow all state and Jasper Code requirements regarding the operation of a wine specialty shop, including, but not limited to, the payment of any applicable excise taxes. Failure of the licensee to operate the wine specialty shop in accordance with state and Jasper Code requirements shall be due cause for the City of Jasper, Georgia to suspend or revoke, or both, the wine specialty shop license upon compliance with the violation procedures as set forth in the City of Jasper Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance being chapter 10 of the Jasper Code of Ordinances. An authorized wine specialty shop license shall only be revoked for due cause. Due cause for the revocation of a wine specialty shop license shall consist only of violations regarding the sale of alcoholic beverages of the State of Georgia, other violations of Georgia law, an incomplete or inaccurate application for a license, and due to violations by the licensee as to provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance of the City of Jasper or other ordinances of the City of Jasper. Every unrevoked license authorizing the operation of a wine specialty shop shall be renewable to the holder of a license upon the payment of fees and taxes lawfully assessed and fixed for the issuance of such licenses.
(d)
Wine specialty shop is a retail establishment which has both package sales of wine and limited consumption on the premises of wine or craft draft beers, cigars, and wine-related merchandise under the following conditions:
(1)
No less than 60 percent of the gross revenue of the business shall be derived from the package sale of table wine, fortified wines, port, sherry and/or wine accessories or other wine-related merchandise allowed to be sold in the Central Business District (CBD); (consumption on the premises sales must be 40 percent or less of the business' gross revenue.)
(2)
It shall be unlawful for a wine specialty shop to sell or have on the premises spirituous liquors or packaged malt beverages.
(3)
A wine specialty shop shall be allowed to sell growlers containing craft draft beer, as long as they follow the following provisions as to growlers:
a.
The filling of growlers shall be by way of a tapped keg and which shall not constitute the breaking of a package as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26 or other provisions of this chapter. Growlers may only be filled from kegs procured by the licensee from a duly licensed wholesaler.
b.
Only properly sanitized and sealed growlers may be filled and made available for retail sale. Each growler must be securely sealed and removed from the premises in its original sealed condition. The licensee must comply with state, federal and local packaging and labeling laws regarding alcoholic beverages.
(4)
Shall be allowed to serve craft draft beers by the glass for consumption on the premises only during the same hours as are permitted for the sale of "malt beverages and wine package sales." Package sales of craft draft beers other than craft draft beer growlers is prohibited. Malt beverages fees shall apply for consumption on the premises of craft draft beers.
(5)
Only the licensee or an employee shall dispense craft draft beers from a tap. Free samples of wine or craft draft beers shall not exceed five ounces of wine and eight ounces of craft draft beer nor shall any one individual be offered more than seven samples within a calendar day.
(6)
Sampling or tasting of wine or craft draft beers is only permitted within designated portions of the premises.
(7)
A cigar smoking room shall be allowed on the premises which shall be separate from any tasting room, but wine and craft draft beer may be served in the cigar smoking room.
(e)
A retail establishment operating as a wine specialty shop shall provide the city clerk's office, at the time of alcohol license renewal, a statement prepared by licensee's bookkeeper or accountant of the gross sales of the business for the preceding calendar year. The statement shall include the total gross sales for the establishment and document the percentage of sales in dollars attributed to consumption on the premises as compared to package sales and other general wine-related merchandise sales. Copies of the state sales tax returns for the same period shall be attached to the statement. The statement must be properly notarized and certified to be true and correct by the licensee or his/her agent under penalty of law, and shall accompany the renewal license fee payment on or before December 31, of each year. The city reserves the right to require, for any reasons deemed necessary by the city, a certified audit for sales of wine.
(f)
The license fee for a wine specialty shop license is $_______. The city council for this license fee and all other alcoholic beverage license fees, shall be authorized to modify and adopt new fees by the adoption of a resolution approving a new fee schedule for such fees in a public council meeting.
(Ord. No. 2021-14 , § 1(d), 6-7-2021; Ord. No. 2022-10 , § 2(b), 7-11-2022)
Secs. 10-401—10-499. - Reserved.
new
