ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 10-62. - Inspection—By police department.
The licensee shall keep the premises clean, and in proper sanitary condition, and in full compliance with provisions and regulations governing the conditions of premises used for the storage and sale of food for human consumption. Sworn officers of the city police department and the mayor and city council shall have the authority to inspect the outlet and premises licensed under this chapter and state law of the city during the hours when the outlet is open for business. These inspections shall be made for the purpose of verifying compliance with the requirements of this article and state law. This section is not intended to limit the authority of any other city officer to conduct inspections authorized by other provisions of law.
(Code 1979, §§ 37-1.9(A), 37-1.11(P))
Sec. 10-63. - Same—By fire department.
The city fire department shall have the authority to inspect regularly the licensed outlet and premises to determine if the licensed outlet is in compliance with all city, county, and state fire regulations and report any violations to the mayor and city council.
(Code 1979, § 37-1.9(B)(1))
Sec. 10-64. - Same—By code enforcement officers.
The city has the right to have an inspector inspect regularly the licensed outlet and premises to determine if the licensed outlet is in compliance with all technical codes of the city and report any violations to the mayor and city council.
(Code 1979, § 37-1.9(B)(2))
Sec. 10-65. - Sales and purchase records—Alcoholic beverages.
Every licensee shall keep and preserve records of all alcoholic beverages purchased and sold by the licensee. The records shall be kept for a period of three years from the date of purchase and sale and should at all times be open to audit or inspection by the mayor and city council or any designated city employee or any outside agent for the city upon approval of the outside agent by the city manager.
(Code 1979, § 37-1.9(C))
State Law reference— Record of sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-6.
Sec. 10-66. - Same—Food and nonalcoholic beverages.
All licensees for the sale of distilled spirits by the drink shall keep and preserve records of all food and nonalcoholic beverages purchased and sold by the licensees. Such records shall be kept for three years from the date of purchase and sale and shall be at all times open for audit and inspection by the mayor and city council or any designated city employee or any outside agent of the city upon approval of the outside agent by the city manager.
(Code 1979, § 37-1.9(C))
State Law reference— Record of sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-6.
Sec. 10-67. - Audits.
In the event an audit is called for by the mayor and city council, they shall notify the licensee of the date, time and place of the audit.
(Code 1979, § 37-1.9(C))
Secs. 10-68—10-92. - Reserved.
