ARTICLE IX. - TAXICABS

Sec. 10-238. - Intent of article; severability.
It is the intent of this article to regulate the operation of taxicab businesses as set forth in this article upon all businesses operating in the corporate boundaries of the city consistent with the requirements of the Constitution and laws of the state. In the event that the regulations and/or fees imposed hereby shall not be authorized on any business and practitioner or regulation and/or fee shall be in excess of the maximum amount authorized by law, such regulation and/or fee shall be imposed only to the extent authorized by law. The invalidity of any part of this article shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion hereof. In the event that this article may not be enforced against any class of business mentioned herein, such inability to enforce the same shall not affect its validity against the other business specified herein.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 16, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-239. - Operation of taxicab to be in compliance with article.
No person, firm, or corporation shall operate a taxicab in the city except in accordance with the terms and provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 1, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-240. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Line jumping. Taxicabs shall be placed on stands only from the rear and shall be moved forward and to the front of the stand immediately as space becomes available by the departure or movement of preceding taxicabs. Violations of this rule constitutes line jumping and shall be grounds for suspension of a taxi drivers permit.
Operator means any person, firm, or corporation in the business of transporting passengers in taxicabs.
Ride share driver means an individual who uses his or her personal passenger car to provide transportation for passengers arranged through a ride share network service.
Ride share network service means any person or entity that uses a digital network or Internet network to connect passengers to ride share drivers for the purpose of prearranged transportation for hire or for donation.
Taxicab means a motor vehicle for hire which conveys passengers between locations of their choice and is a mode of public transportation for a single passenger or small group for a fee. Such term shall also mean taxi or cab, but not a bus or school bus, limousine, passenger car used by a ride share driver, or commercial motor vehicle.
Taximeter means a device that automatically calculates, at a predetermined rate, and indicates the charge for hire of a vehicle. Taxicabs operating with non-electronic taximeters shall be furnished with a sign, approved by the city Code enforcement, immediately adjacent to the taximeter which explains the way the fare shall be calculated if the taximeter reaches its highest fare before the passenger's destination is reached. This sign shall be pointed out to the passenger by the driver at the beginning of the trip.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 2, 12-12-2007; Ord. No. 17-01-163 , § 3, 1-10-2017)
Sec. 10-241. - Operations deemed to be doing business in the city.
A taxicab shall be deemed to be doing business in the city when its original terminus, that is to say, the place from which it operated and is subject to calls, shall be located in the city.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 3, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-242. - License fees for annual operation and driver's permit.
License fees are hereby levied per annum for each taxicab maintained or operated, and per annum for each driver's permit. The license fees are established from time to time by resolution of the mayor and city council. The business occupation tax shall be in accordance with the current business occupation tax ordinance. The following criteria must be met to maintain a taxi cab license:
(1)
Establishment and maintenance of an office within the corporate boundaries of Chattahoochee Hills.
(2)
Submission of a copy of current lease or proof of ownership of office space.
(3)
Establishment and maintenance of a publicly listed telephone number.
(4)
Maintain the name and home address of each driver affiliated with the company.
(5)
Maintain off-street parking capable of accommodating all company vehicles.
(6)
Maintain a file for each vehicle containing proof of current instruments.
(7)
Possess a valid six-month auto insurance policy.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 4, 12-12-2007; Ord. No. 17-01-163, § 4, 1-10-2017)
Sec. 10-243. - Permits for operation.
(a)
Required.
(1)
No person, firm, or corporation shall operate a taxicab or conduct the business of operating taxicabs in the city until the person, firm, or corporation has first applied for and obtained an occupation tax certificate and a taxicab license. The applications for the occupation tax certificate and license shall be made to the city upon forms provided for that purpose. The license for vehicles shall be issued by the city. Permits for drivers will be issued by the city police department.
(2)
No person shall operate a taxicab in the corporate boundaries of the city until the person has first applied for and obtained a driver's permit. Permits for drivers will be issued by the city police department.
(b)
Description of business. The application shall contain, among other things, a detailed description of the equipment to be used in the business and the name of the operators thereof, the point of original terminus of the business, and the address and telephone number of the office or call station from which the business is operated.
(c)
Indemnity insurance. No taxicab license to operate taxicabs shall be issued or continued in operation unless the holder thereof shall file with the business tax division a policy of indemnity insurance in some indemnity insurance company authorized to do business in this state, which policy shall have limits equal to or in excess of the following sums for each taxicab operated:
(1)
For bodily injury to each person, $50,000.00;
(2)
For bodily injury to all persons sustained in any one accident, $50,000.00; and
(3)
For property damage and liability for baggage of passengers, $25,000.00.
The policy shall be conditioned to protect the public against injury or damage proximately caused by the negligence of the holder of such permit. Additional drivers or new drivers hired after issuance of the occupation tax certificate shall be covered by a rider to the policy prior to the issuance of a driver's permit.
(d)
Ages of vehicles. The operator is responsible for ensuring that each taxicab used in active business is no more than six years old. By December of each year, automobiles of a model year seven years prior to that year must be replaced.
(e)
Annual renewal. All fees for taxicab licenses and taxi drivers' permits are due no later than June 30 of each year.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 5, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-244. - Certificate of inspection.
(a)
A certificate of inspection completed on forms provided by the city and issued by an ASE certified mechanic and shall be located inside the taxicab at all times certifying that the taxicab and equipment therein are safe and in compliance with applicable law. This certificate must be renewed every 90 days, and the operator of any taxicab business shall be required to keep his taxicab and equipment therein in safe condition conforming to all laws under penalty of having his permit to conduct a taxicab business suspended or revoked.
(b)
Each taxicab must produce proof of taximeter inspection and calibration for issuance and renewal of taxi decal.
(c)
The city police department may conduct random inspections to ensure the safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 6, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-245. - Additional equipment.
The operator of a taxi business shall register with the city each additional piece of equipment put in use, and same shall be subject to inspection and registration as herein provided.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 7, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-246. - Drivers' qualifications.
It shall be the duty of all operators to file with the city the names and addresses, age and physical description of the persons employed as drivers. All drivers shall hold licenses from the state department of public safety as drivers of vehicles for hire, and drivers' permits issued by the county police department. No person shall be employed or shall drive a taxicab who has, within the past five years, been convicted of or has pled guilty or nolo contendere to any sexual offense as set out in title 16, chapter 6 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, or to the offense of driving under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol, or to any open container violations, or to any offense involving the lottery, illegal possession or sale of narcotics or alcoholic beverages or possession or receiving of stolen property, violence, or the violation of a spirituous, vinous, or malt beverage statute or if the driver has been convicted of an offense of causing death by vehicle. No driver can be issued a taxi driver's permit if the driver has received three or more moving violations in the preceding 12-month period.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 8, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-247. - Taxi stands; parking.
Operators and drivers of taxicabs shall not park taxicabs in any congested area as defined by the regulations of the city council at any place other than the place designated as "taxi stand." The parking of taxicabs shall be subject at all times to the direction of police officers should such direction be necessary or desirable for the relief of an emergency traffic condition.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 9, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-248. - Information to be displayed.
(a)
Information to be displayed inside the taxicab at all times. The operator is responsible for ensuring that each taxicab used in active business shall have posted in a conspicuous place, on the inside thereof, a map or street guide of the city, the name and photograph of the driver of the taxicab, and a schedule of fares. Each taxicab used in active business shall also bear on the outside thereof a numbered decal to be furnished by the city.
(b)
Information to be displayed outside the taxicab at all times. The operator is responsible for ensuring that each taxicab used in active business bears on the outside thereof a numbered decal to be furnished by the city, the name of the company and business telephone number which must be permanently affixed to the taxicab, a dome light on the roof which must be at least six inches in height permanently affixed to the roof and bear the term "taxi" or the company name.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 10, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-249. - Operators responsible for violations by drivers.
To the extent provided by law, operators are responsible for violations of this article by their taxicab drivers whether such drivers are direct employees or independent contractors.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 11, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-250. - Notice of denial of license.
In the event that an application is denied, the city shall provide the applicant with written notice of the denial of the taxicab license. The notice of denial shall include the grounds for denial.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 12, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-251. - Suspension or revocation of license.
(a)
No license issued hereunder may be transferred.
(b)
Each license granted hereunder shall be subject to suspension or revocation for violation of any rule or regulation of the county now in force or hereafter adopted.
(c)
Whenever the city manager determines there is cause to suspend or revoke the license issued hereunder, the city manager's office shall give the licensee a ten-day written notice of intention to suspend or revoke the license. A hearing will be scheduled wherein the licensee may present a defense to the suspension or revocation before the city council or such board as the city council may designate. The ten-day written notice shall include the time, place, and purpose of such hearing, and a statement of the charges upon which such hearing will be held. After the hearing, the council or designated board may suspend or revoke the license issued hereunder if any of the grounds set forth below exist. A license issued under this article may be suspended or revoked by the city council or their designee and a driver's permit may be suspended or revoked by the city police department upon one or more of the following grounds:
(1)
The original application contains materially false information, or the applicant has deliberately sought to falsify information contained therein;
(2)
For failure to pay all fees, taxes or other charges imposed by the provisions of this article;
(3)
For failure to maintain all of the general qualifications applicable to the initial issuance of a license or permit under this article;
(4)
Having four or more moving traffic violations in any 12-month period;
(5)
Refusing to accept a client solely on the basis of race, color, national origin, religious belief, or sex. Operators and drivers shall not refuse to accept a client unless the client is obviously intoxicated or dangerous;
(6)
Allowing the required insurance coverage to lapse or allowing a driver to operate in the city in violation of the provisions of this article;
(7)
The establishment or driver is a threat or nuisance to public health, safety or welfare;
(8)
Not taking the most direct route; or
(9)
For violation of any part of this article.
(d)
After the city manager makes a recommendation to the mayor and city council to suspend or revoke a license issued hereunder, the mayor and city council, or such board as the mayor and city council may designate, will conduct a hearing to hear evidence relevant to the alleged violation.
(1)
At the hearing, the city manager or his designate proceeds first and shall have ten minutes to present all evidence and argument in support of the recommendation to suspend or revoke the license issued hereunder.
(2)
The mayor and the city council members or their designates will have the right to ask questions at any time.
(3)
After the city manager makes his presentation, the licensee or the licensee's legal counsel, shall have ten minutes to present evidence and argument as to why the license issued hereunder should not be suspended or revoked. The mayor and city council members or their designate will have the right to ask questions at any time.
(4)
After hearing all of the evidence and arguments of the parties, the mayor and city council will render a decision. The suspension or revocation of a taxicab license is final unless the licensee files a petition for writ of certiorari to the Superior Court of Fulton County within 30 days of the date of the decision.
(Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, § 13, 12-12-2007)
Sec. 10-252. - No proration of license fee.
No license fees shall be prorated. Taxi driver's permit fees shall not be prorated.
(Res. No. 01-0373, § 1, 3-21-2001; Ord. No. 07-12-08, art. 8, 12-12-2007)
Secs. 10-253—10-282. - Reserved.
