ARTICLE IX. - FEES

Sec. 10-316. - Permit and inspection fees.
(a)
Required for issuance of permit. A permit shall not be issued until the required permit and inspection fees prescribed by the county have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase in the estimated cost of the building, structure, electrical, plumbing, mechanical or gas systems, etc., has been paid.
(b)
Accounting. The building official shall keep a permanent and accurate accounting of all permit and inspection fees and other money collected, the names of all persons upon whose account the same was paid, along with the date and amount thereof.
(c)
Schedule of permit and inspection fees. On all buildings, structures, electrical, plumbing, mechanical and gas systems or alterations requiring a permit, a fee for each permit and any associated inspection fees shall be paid as required at the time of filing the application, in accordance with the fee schedules as set by the county commissioner.
(d)
Building permit valuations. If, in the opinion of the building official, the valuation of the building, alteration, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems appears to be underestimated on the application, the permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates to meet the approval of the building official. Permit valuations shall include total cost, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and other systems, including materials and labor.
(e)
Reinspection fees. The county will collect reinspection fees for repeat inspections caused by failure of the inspection requested or not being ready for inspection or inspections not completed because of erosion control problems in the amount set forth in the schedule of fees.
(f)
Method and time of payment. All building permit fees must be paid in cash or check at the time of issuance and any reinspection fees for any reason must be paid before a temporary or partial certificate of occupancy, certificate of occupancy, or certificate of completion is issued.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 3.7)
Secs. 10-317—10-350. - Reserved.
