Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation of Code; citation.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated, "The Code of Ordinances of Towns County, Georgia" and may be so cited. This Code may also be referred to by the shortened form, "Towns County Code."
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
As used in this Code, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings indicated unless otherwise specifically provided, and the following rules of construction shall be applied:
Applicability. In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the county commissioner. The rules of construction and definitions set out in this section shall not be applied to any section of this Code which contains any express provisions, excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context of the section may be repugnant thereto.
As soon as possible. The term "as soon as possible" means within a reasonable time, having due regard to all the circumstances.
Code. The term "Code" refers to the Code of Ordinances of Towns County, Georgia.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, only the first and last day shall be counted. If the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following business day to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, an intermediate Saturday, Sunday, and legal holiday shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by any of the conjunctions "and," "or," "either … or," or "neither … nor," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided that in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.
The terms "either … or" and "neither … nor" indicate that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Towns County, Georgia.
County commissioner. The term "county commissioner" means the governing authority of Towns County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the county court.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the county to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Department; board; agency. The name or title of any department, board, or agency, unless otherwise specifically stated otherwise, shall be read as though the words "of the County of Towns, Georgia" were added thereto.
Gender. A word importing, the masculine gender only shall extend and be implied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the county commissioner of Towns County, Georgia.
Incorporated limits or incorporated areas of the county. The term "incorporated limits" or "incorporated areas of the county" means all areas of the county that are not situated within the territorial limits of an incorporated town or city.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Joint authority. Whenever a joint authority is given to three or more persons or officers, it shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of them.
Judge. The term "judge" means the judge of the county court.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons as the term "person" is defined herein, whether acting by themselves or through an agent or employee.
Law. The term "law" means and denotes applicable federal law, the state constitution and statutes, this Code, ordinances and resolutions of the county, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations that may be promulgated thereunder.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions.
(1)
The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
(2)
In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the county commissioner, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
(3)
All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the county commissioner may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be constructed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. The singular number shall include the plural and the plural number shall include the singular.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." refers to the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the terms "swear" or "sworn."
Officials orofficers. Whenever reference is made to officials, officers, boards, commissions, departments or other municipal agents by title only, such reference shall be read as though followed by the term "of Towns County, Georgia".
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or to land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any other group action as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used it shall mean place.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, shopping center, schoolyard, or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned, and any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or to congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or reasonable notice. Reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the county governing authority of a special or temporary character.
Shall. The term "shall" is mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved area between the curb line and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Statute. The term "statute," unless otherwise specifically stated, refers to the indicated portion of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the county.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing orwritten. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; general statutory definition, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines, notes, and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, not as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are intended merely to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, charter references and state law references that appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
State Law reference— Notes and catch lines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
Sec. 1-5. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the commissioners. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the county commissioner or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ through ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the county commissioner.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section ___ of the Code of Ordinances of Towns County, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That the Code of Ordinances of Towns County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered ___," which said section reads as follows:…." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, with reference to the subject matter, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the county commissioner.
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying, or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-8. - Exclusion of special or temporary ordinances.
Ordinances hereafter adopted which are not of a general or permanent nature shall be numbered consecutively, authenticated, published and recorded in the book of ordinances, but shall not be prepared for insertion in this Code, nor be deemed a part hereof.
Sec. 1-9. - Form of Code; repository; maintenance.
A copy of this Code shall be kept on file in the office of the county clerk, preserved in looseleaf form, or in such other form as the clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the clerk or his designee to insert in their designated places all resolutions, general resolutions and ordinances that indicate the intention of the county commissioner to make the same a part of this Code, when the same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from this Code all provisions that may be from time to time repealed by the county commissioner. A copy of this Code shall be available in the office of the county clerk for examination by all persons.
State Law reference— Inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.; requirements for publication of code, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-10. - Responsibility of county personnel with respect to assigned copies of Code.
Each county official or employee assigned a copy of this Code shall be responsible for maintaining the same and for the proper insertion of amendatory pages as received. Each such copy shall remain the property of the county and shall be turned over by the official or employee having custody thereof, upon expiration of his term of office or employment, to his successor or to the county clerk, in case he shall have no successor.
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty: continuing violations, violations as public nuisance.
(a)
In this section, the phrase "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared to be an unlawful act, an offense, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor, an offense, or an unlawful omission by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
The phrase "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a county officer or county employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context of this Code that it is the intent of the county to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the county officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days or work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding 90 days, or both, or any combination thereof.
(d)
All sentences must be in the alternative, and fines may be imposed with the alternative of the other punishment in the event the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(e)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, each day that a violation of this Code continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(f)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. Further, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rules, regulation or order shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the county as provided by law.
(g)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit equitable relief to include stop work orders and temporary restraining orders when applicable.
(h)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit revocation or suspension of a license, permit, or franchise or the imposition of other administrative sanctions.
(i)
All fines shall be paid into the county treasury.
(j)
In the event community service is substituted for a fine, the monetary rate for hourly work shall be the federal minimum hourly wage.
(k)
If it is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction that a punishment imposed under this Code conflicts with the laws of Georgia, the punishment shall be the maximum permitted by law.
State Law reference— Maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5.
Sec. 1-12. - Additional statutory penalties; county jail fund deposits and disposition of funds.
(a)
In every case in the superior court, probate court, magistrate court, or other court in the county shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of the state or any ordinance of a political subdivision thereof, shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(b)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case before any court in the county involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of the state or ordinance of the county, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any superior court, probate court, magistrate court or other court within the county shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be paid over as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-94.
(c)
The additional penalty sums required by this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund or O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 concerning the judges of the Probate Court Retirement Fund of Georgia.
(d)
The additional penalty sums required by this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting money arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid to the governing authority of the county by the tenth day of the month following the month in which the monies are collected. Such sums paid to the county shall be deposited by the county into a special account to be known as the county jail fund.
(e)
Any person whose duty it is to collect and remit the sums provided for in this section who fails or refuses to remit such sums by the date required by this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(f)
Money collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended by the county solely and exclusively for constructing, operating, and staffing the county jails, correctional institutions, and detention facilities or for the purpose of contracting for such facilities with the state or other political subdivisions. The county jail fund and money collected pursuant to this section for placement in the county jail fund may be pledged as security for the payment of bonds issued for the construction of county jails, correctional institutions, and detention facilities. This section shall not preclude the appropriation or expenditure of other funds by the county for the purpose of constructing, operating, or staffing county jails, correctional institutions, and detention facilities.
(Res. of 1-15-1990, §§ 1—6)
Sec. 1-13. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-14. - Continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-15. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
(3)
Any ordinance or resolution consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution consistent with this Code fixing salaries of, or providing policies and programs for, providing retirement, disability or death benefits for, officials, officers or employees of the county;
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance; any ordinance levying any tax;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the county;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the county;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision within the county;
(11)
Any ordinance regulating subdivisions or any ordinance regulating signs or any ordinance regulating building design standards;
(12)
Any ordinance or resolution adopted for purposes that have been consummated;
(13)
Any ordinance that is temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in effect; and
(14)
Any resolution of the county not in conflict with this Code;
all such ordinances or resolutions are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-16. - Severability of parts of Code.
If any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code.
State Law reference— Severability of state legislation, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-17. - Conflicting regulations.
(a)
If the provisions of different chapters conflict with each other, the provisions of each individual chapter shall control all issues arising out of the events and persons intended to be governed by that chapter.
(b)
If the provisions of different sections of the same chapter conflict with each other, the provision which is more specific in its application to the events or persons raising the conflict shall control over the more general provision.
(c)
If any of the provisions hereof conflict, and the conflict cannot be resolved by application of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the more stringent regulation shall apply and the specific provision shall prevail over the general.
