ARTICLE VII. - CERTIFICATES

Sec. 10-255. - Tests.
The building official may require tests or test reports as proof of compliance. Required tests are to be made at the expense of the owner, or his agent, by an approved testing laboratory or other approved agency.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 4)
Sec. 10-256. - Certificate of occupancy.
(a)
Required; inspections required for issuance. A new building shall not be occupied or a change made in the occupancy, nature or use of a building or part of a building until after the building official has issued a certificate of occupancy. Said certificate shall not be issued until all required electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing and fire protection systems have been inspected for compliance with the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances and released by the building official.
(b)
Issuance. Upon satisfactory completion of construction of a building or structure and installation of electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems in accordance with the technical codes, reviewed plans and specifications, and after the final inspection, the building official shall issue a certificate of occupancy stating the nature of the occupancy permitted, the number of persons for each floor when limited by law.
(c)
Temporary/partial occupancy. A temporary/partial certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion of a building, which may be safely occupied prior to final completion of the building.
(d)
Existing building certificate. A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the building official and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with the technical codes for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the opinion of the building official, two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
(e)
Requirements for issuance. To obtain a certificate of occupancy the following is required:
(1)
Satisfactory completion of all required inspections;
(2)
Payment of any outstanding fees;
(3)
Installation of permanent and proper address numbers in accordance with the E-911 plan.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 3.9)
Sec. 10-257. - Certificates of completion.
(a)
Issuance; effect. Upon satisfactory completion of a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, a certificate of completion may be issued. This certificate is proof that a structure or system is complete and for certain types of permits is released for use and may be connected to a utility system. This certificate does not grant authority to occupy or connect a building, such as a shell building, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(b)
Connection of service utilities. No person shall make connections from a utility, source of energy, fuel or power to any building or system that is regulated by the technical codes for which a permit is required, until released by the building official and a certificate of occupancy or completion is issued.
(c)
Temporary connection. The building official may authorize the temporary connection of the building or acclimatization of sensitive materials system to the utility source of energy, fuel or power for the purpose of testing building service systems or for use under a temporary certificate of occupancy.
(d)
Authority to disconnect service utilities. The building official shall have the power to authorize the disconnection of utility service to the building, structure of system regulated by the technical codes, in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. The building official shall notify the serving utility, and whenever possible the owner and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 3.9)
Sec. 10-258. - Posting floor loads.
(a)
Occupancy restrictions. An existing or new building shall not be occupied for any purpose, which will cause the floors thereof to be loaded beyond their safe capacity. The building official may permit occupancy of a building for mercantile, commercial or industrial purposes, by a specific business, when he is satisfied that such capacity will not thereby be exceeded.
(b)
Storage and factory-industrial occupancies. It shall be the responsibility of the owner, agent, proprietor or occupant of Group S and Group F occupancies, or any occupancy where excessive floor loading is likely to occur, to employ a competent architect or engineer in computing the safe load capacity. All such computations shall be accompanied by an affidavit from the architect or engineer stating the safe allowable floor load on each floor in pounds per square foot uniformly distributed. The computations and affidavit shall be filed as a permanent record of the building department.
(c)
Signs required. In every building or part of a building used for storage, industrial or hazardous purposes, the safe floor loads, as reviewed by the building official on the plan, shall be marked on plates or approved design which shall be supplied and securely affixed by the owner of the building in a conspicuous place in each story to which they relate. Such plates shall not be removed or defaced, and if lost, removed or defaced, shall be replaced by the owner of the building.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 3.10)
Secs. 10-259—10-279. - Reserved.
