ARTICLE II. - MINIMUM STANDARDS CODES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-21. - Adoption of technical codes.
The following state minimum standards codes, as adopted and amended, now or in the future, by the state department of community affairs, along with the referenced appendices, are adopted by reference as though fully set forth herein:
(1)
International Building Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments (2007), and including Appendices C, D, and J.
(2)
International Residential Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments (2007-2008).
(3)
International Plumbing Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments (2007), and including Appendix D.
(4)
International Mechanical Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments (2007-2008) and 2007 Errata for Georgia Amendments.
(5)
International Fuel Gas Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments (2007-2008).
(6)
National Electrical Code, 2005 Edition, with Georgia Amendments (2006).
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code, 2007 Edition, with Georgia Supplements and Amendments (2008).
(8)
International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition.
(9)
International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition.
(10)
International Fire Code, 2006 Edition, with Georgia Amendments (2007).
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(1); Ord. of 2-21-2008(1), §§ 1—8)
State Law reference— Adoption of state minimum standards code by counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-28; county adoption of national and regional codes by reference, O.C.G.A. § 36-13-3.
Sec. 10-22. - Code remedial.
The technical codes adopted herein are remedial and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof (public safety, health, and general welfare) through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment, including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems, which may be referred to as service systems.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 1.2)
Sec. 10-23. - Quality control and warranty excluded.
(a)
Quality control of materials and workmanship is not within the purview of this article except as it relates to the purposes stated herein.
(b)
The inspection or permitting of any building, system or plan, under the requirements of this article shall not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system or plan or their adequacy. The county, county employees, and construction board of adjustment and appeals board members shall not be liable in torts for damages for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such, that may occur subsequent to such inspection or permitting.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 1.2)
Sec. 10-24. - Scope and applicability.
(a)
Building code. The provisions of the building code adopted herein shall apply to the construction, alteration, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition, of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures, except in one- and two-family dwellings.
(b)
Electrical code. The provisions of the electrical code adopted herein shall apply to the installation of electrical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereto.
(c)
Fuel gas code. The provisions of the fuel gas code adopted herein shall apply to the installation of consumer's gas piping, gas appliances and related accessories as covered in this code. These requirements apply to gas piping systems extending from the point of delivery to the inlet connections of appliances and the installation and operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories, except in one- and two-family dwellings.
(d)
Mechanical code. The provisions of the mechanical code adopted herein shall apply to the installation of mechanical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and/or appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air conditioning and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other energy-related systems, except in one- and two-family dwellings.
(e)
Plumbing code. The provisions of the plumbing code adopted herein shall apply to every plumbing installation, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, and when connected to a water or sewerage system.
(f)
Fire code. The provisions of the fire code adopted herein shall apply to the construction, alteration, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures.
(g)
Energy conservation. The provisions of the energy conservation code adopted herein shall regulate the design of building envelopes for adequate thermal resistance and low air leakage and the design and selection of mechanical, electrical, service water heating and illumination systems and equipment that will enable the effective use of energy in new building construction.
(h)
Residential code. The provisions of the residential code shall apply to the construction, alteration, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, of every one- or two-family dwelling or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures.
(i)
Property maintenance code. The provisions of this code provide code enforcement personnel with the necessary tools to have dangerous and unsafe buildings repaired or demolished.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 1.3)
Sec. 10-25. - Conflicting provisions.
Where, in any specific case, different sections of these codes specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 1.3)
Sec. 10-26. - No abrogation of federal and state authority.
The provisions of the technical codes adopted herein shall not be held to deprive any federal or state agency, or any applicable governing authority having jurisdiction, of any power or authority which it had on the effective date of the adoption of the technical codes or of any remedy then existing for the enforcement of its orders, nor shall it deprive any individual or corporation of its legal rights as provided by law.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 1.3)
Sec. 10-27. - Appendices and referenced standards.
(a)
Appendices referenced in the code text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes.
(b)
Standards referenced in the text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes. If specific portions of a standard are denoted by code text, only those portions of the standard shall be enforced. Where code provisions conflict with a standard, the code provisions shall be enforced. Permissive and advisory provisions in a standard shall not be construed as mandatory.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 1.3)
Sec. 10-28. - Building maintenance subject to code standards.
All buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems, both existing and new, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. All devices or safeguards that are required by the technical codes when constructed, altered, or repaired, shall be maintained in good working order. The owner, or his designated agent, shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 1.3)
Secs. 10-29—10-59. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EXCEPTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO TECHNICAL CODES

Sec. 10-60. - Exceptions regarding existing buildings.
(a)
Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work may be made to any existing structure, building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system without requiring the building, structure, plumbing, electrical, mechanical or gas system to comply with all the requirements of the technical codes provided that the alteration, repair or rehabilitation work conforms to the requirements of the technical codes for new construction. The building official shall determine the extent to which the existing system shall be made to conform to the requirements of the technical codes for new construction. If such work exceeds 50 percent of market value of the building then said building shall be brought to current codes.
(b)
If the occupancy classification of any existing building or structure is changed, the building, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems shall be made to conform to the intent of the technical codes as required by the building official.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 1.5)
Sec. 10-61. - Exceptions regarding special historic buildings.
The provisions of the technical codes relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures identified and classified by the state or local jurisdiction as historic buildings when such buildings or structures are judged by the building official to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare regarding any proposed construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings within fire districts.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 1.6)
Sec. 10-62. - Requirements not covered by technical codes.
Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by the building code or the other technical codes, shall be determined by the building official.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 2.6)
Sec. 10-63. - Alternate materials and methods permitted.
The provisions of the technical codes are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by them, provided any such alternate has been reviewed by the building official. The building official shall approve any such alternate, provided the building official finds that the alternate for the purpose intended is at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the technical codes, in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The building official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claim made regarding the alternate.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 2.7)
Sec. 10-64. - Exception for height restrictions.
(a)
Regardless of any provision of the technical codes adopted herein to the contrary, there shall be no buildings permitted or constructed within the unincorporated areas of the county that exceed a height of three stories or a total height of 35 feet, whichever is less. This restriction on building height shall include all residential, nonresidential, commercial, multifamily, apartment, condominium, or any other structure or improvements permitted to real property within the county. The height of a single-family dwelling structure shall be determined by measuring from the point of the highest eave of the structure down to the highest point at which the foundation of such structure intersects the ground.
(b)
Regardless of any provision of the technical codes adopted herein to the contrary, the height of a structure used for commercial purposes or as a multifamily dwelling, including, but not limited to, townhouses, apartments, and condominiums, shall be determined by measuring from the highest point of the utmost portion of the crest, summit, or ridge top of the structure down to the footing. The walls placed upon the footing, including, but not limited to, poured concrete walls, block walls, or any wall consisting of any other type of construction material shall be considered a portion of that structure to be included in the height limitation.
(c)
This height restriction shall not apply to water, radio, and television towers. Further, this restriction shall not prohibit chimneys, flagpoles, flues, steeples, belfries, cupolas, antenna or windmills which may extend from the top of a structure or exceed 35 feet as a single structure.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(1))
Sec. 10-65. - Exception for unsafe buildings or systems.
Regardless of any provision of the technical codes adopted herein to the contrary, all buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems that are unsafe or unsanitary, that do not provide adequate egress, that constitute a fire hazard or are otherwise dangerous to human life, or that in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to safety or health are considered unsafe buildings or service systems. All such unsafe buildings, structures or service systems are hereby declared illegal and shall be abated by repair and rehabilitation or by demolition.
(Ord. of 9-21-2006(3), § 2.5)
Sec. 10-66. - Rough sawn lumber permitted for certain construction.
In the construction of personal residences or additions thereto, the use of rough sawn lumber is permitted as an exception to the county's technical codes.
(Amd. of 2-15-2007(1))
Secs. 10-67—10-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - SETBACKS

Sec. 10-91. - General requirements.
(a)
Regardless of any provisions of the adopted technical codes to the contrary, no building, structure or other improvements that constitute an enclosed or sheltered area or a swimming pool may be constructed within 20 feet to the back line of a lot or tract of land, within ten feet of any side line or within 20 feet of any front line.
(b)
The front line shall be that portion of the lot or tract of land that joins a public or private street or right-of-way, which may be used for parking.
(c)
In the event a lot or tract of land is platted to the center or edge of a road, said setbacks shall be measured from the right-of-way of the road. If a lot or tract of land does not front a road or if a lot or tract of land adjoins a road at more than one line, then the front line shall be designated by the landowner; thereafter, all other lines are designated in the proper relation and designation to the front line.
(d)
Exempted from these setback requirements are the installation of landscaping and other improvements that do not constitute a dwelling or enclosed structures.
(Ord. of 2-21-2008, § 2)
Sec. 10-92. - Lake front properties.
(a)
Regardless of any provision of the adopted technical codes to the contrary, homes or buildings may not be constructed on any lot or tract of land within 50 feet of the 1926-foot elevation above mean sea level of Lake Chatuge. This 50-foot setback is not a horizontal offset, but it is to be measured 50 feet back perpendicular from the 1926-foot contour with the topography (slope) of the land, said 1926-foot elevation being the full pool level of said Tennessee Valley Authority impoundment.
(b)
This setback requirement shall not be construed to limit boat docks, decks, walkways or other marina related construction as normally permitted by the Tennessee Valley Authority.
(Ord. of 2-21-2008, § 2)
Sec. 10-93. - Exceptions to requirements.
(a)
Lots of record that were of record with the Clerk of Superior Court of the county before February 21, 2008, are exempt from the minimum dimensional requirements of this division. Said exemption shall be applicable to both the owner of record at the time of recording of said lot and all subsequent owners of record.
(b)
This section shall not apply to buildings or other improvements that were in existence on February 21, 2008, or to lots that are subject to a current valid building permit on February 21, 2008. These buildings may be replaced with new buildings within the setback buffers, provided they are constructed on the same footprint of the building being replaced.
(Ord. of 2-21-2008, § 3)
Sec. 10-94. - Variances.
Variance applications seeking variance from the setback requirements set forth in this chapter will be heard by the county commissioner who may appoint an advisory committee to review plans submitted for water filtration by porous surfaces. The standard for review of variances to setbacks shall include the following questions:
(1)
Was the lot or tract of land platted of record prior to the enactment of the county building code and/or the first amendment of same?
(2)
Was the lot recorded before the present lot size requirement making it too small to construct a building behind a 50-foot setback?
(3)
Does the setback application request for a variance include sufficient buffer vegetation or other buffer landscaping approved by an engineer or commissioner's advisory committee to accomplish the intent of the setback to establish a porous surface to filter stormwater and/or runoff water discharge into Lake Chatuge?
(Ord. of 2-21-2008, § 4)
Secs. 10-95—10-116. - Reserved.
