ARTICLE III. - TOWNS COUNTY WATER AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is an act of the general assembly as enacted by 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1341), p. 3407, as amended, that created the Towns County Water and Sewerage Authority.

Sec. 1. - Short Title.
This shall be known and may be cited as the "Towns County Water and Sewerage Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Towns County Water and Sewerage Authority.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the Towns County Water and Sewerage Authority, which shall be deemed to be a public corporation and by that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the Authority or the trustee acting under any trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of its officers, agents or employees. The Authority shall consist of five (5) members, one of whom shall be a resident freeholder of Macedonia-Tate militia district; one of whom shall be a resident freeholder of Hiawassee militia district; one of whom shall be a resident freeholder of Young Harris militia district; one of whom shall be a resident freeholder of the Town of Young Harris; and one of whom shall be a resident freeholder of the Town of Hiawassee, all in Towns County. The terms of the first members of said Authority shall be as follows:
The member appointed from the Young Harris district shall serve until March 31, 1973, the two (2) members appointed from the Town of Hiawassee and Hiawassee district shall serve until March 31, 1974, and the two (2) members appointed from Macedonia-Tate district and the Town of Young Harris shall serve until March 31, 1975.
Thereafter all members selected and appointed shall serve for a term of three (3) years and until their successors shall have been selected and appointed. Any members of the Authority may be selected and appointed to succeed themselves. Immediately after such appointments, the members of such Authority shall enter upon their duties. Any vacancy on the Authority shall be filled by the majority vote of the remaining members of said Authority and the person so selected and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. The Authority shall elect one of its members as chairman and one of its members as vice-chairman, and it shall also elect a secretary and treasurer who do not necessarily have to be a member of the Authority and if not a member of the Authority he or she shall have no voting rights. The secretary and treasurer may be the same person in the discretion of the Authority. Three (3) members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the Authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the Authority. The members of the Authority shall be compensated as determined from time to time by the governing authority of Towns County; however, it is expressly provided that they shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. The Authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
The initial members of the Authority shall be the following named persons and each of said persons shall serve as a member of the Authority for the number of years set forth opposite their respective names:
Macedonia-Tate District — Carroll Underwood — Three (3) Years
Hiawassee District — B. H. Abbott — Two (2) Years
Young Harris District — Jimmy Rogers — One (1) Year
Town of Young Harris — William T. Stewart — Three (3) Years
Town of Hiawassee — John D. Marlin — Two (2) Years
Thereafter, members shall be appointed by the grand jury of Towns County at the March term of the Supreme Court of said county. In the event the time of convening said March grand jury should be changed, the election of such members of the Authority shall be made at the spring terms of said grand jury but such change shall not affect the time of expiration of the terms of the members of the Authority. Each member so elected shall be elected for a term of three (3) years and until his successor is elected and qualified. The Authority shall meet at least annually in the month of January in each year and at such other times as it may deem necessary.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 47), p. 2694)
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the Towns County Water and Sewerage Authority created by Section 2 of this Act.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction and equipping of water facilities for obtaining one or more sources of water supply, the treatment of water and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including, but not limited to, the State of Georgia and counties and municipalities for the purpose of resale, within and without the territorial boundaries of Towns County, and additions and improvements to and extensions of such facilities and the operation and maintenance of same so as to assure an adequate water system, the acquisition, construction and equipping of sewerage facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter, and the treatment of sewage of any and every type, including, but not limited to, the acquisition and construction of treatment plants, ponds and lagoons, within and without the territorial boundaries of Towns County, and additions and improvements to and extensions of such facilities and the operation and maintenance of same so as to assure an adequate sewerage system. Said water facilities and said sewerage facilities, at the discretion of the Authority, may be combined at any time as one revenue producing undertaking and operated and maintained as such.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one year after completion of construction cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal agents' and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expense, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the cost of the acquisition or construction of any project, the placing of any project in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds" and "bonds" as used in this Act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1957, p. 36 et seq., as amended) amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761 et seq., as amended) and such type of obligations may be issued by the Authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto, and in addition, shall also mean obligations of the Authority the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this Act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the Authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the Authority therefrom and all facilities used in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
Sec. 4. - Powers.
The Authority shall have the following powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of real and personal property of every king and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, or rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the Authority, the Authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act, and in any proceedings to condemn such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action or proceedings as may be just to the Authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance; and if the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the Governor is hereby authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the State title to such lands to the Authority upon payment to the State Treasurer for the credit of the general fund of the State of the reasonable value of such lands in accordance with the applicable laws of the State of Georgia;
(d)
To appoint, select and employ, officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be constructed or acquired, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and the State and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the State, and any agency, corporation or political subdivision of any other State, are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the Authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, counties and other political subdivisions and to the Authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of services and facilities by the Authority to such municipal corporations, counties and political subdivisions for a term not exceeding fifty (50) years;
(f)
To acquire, construct, own, repair, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, maintain and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid, in whole or in part, from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the Authority or from such proceeds and any grant or contribution from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(h)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may require;
(i)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(j)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this State; and
(k)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
Sec. 5. - Revenue bonds.
The Authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the Authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the Authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of bonds.
Sec. 6. - Same—form; denomination; registration; place of payment.
The Authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of the principal thereof and the interest thereon, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the State. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered from, or both, as the Authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest.
Sec. 7. - Same—signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if such officer had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the Authority and official seal of the Authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary and treasurer of the Authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and secretary and treasurer of the Authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signatures of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the Authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Sec. 8. - Same—negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the State. Such bonds, their transfer and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the State.
Sec. 9. - Same—sale; proceeds.
The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the Authority and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of bonds.
Sec. 10. - Same—interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may, under like restrictions issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Sec. 11. - Same—replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds and coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Sec. 12. - Same—conditions precedent to issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other that those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this Act. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the Authority by a majority of its members.
Sec. 13. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Towns County nor a pledge of the faith and credit of said county, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this Section.
Sec. 14. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the Authority any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the Authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the State. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the Authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the Authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this State to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the Authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporation. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the Authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Sec. 15. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The Authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
Sec. 16. - Sinking Fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the Authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the Authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest and other investment charges, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture any surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Sec. 17. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the Authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collection of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. 18. - Refunding bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the Authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the Authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Sec. 19. - Validation.
Bonds of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law, as amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the Authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and the State or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exist, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the contract or contracts adjudicated as a part of the basis of the security for the payment of any such bonds of the Authority. The bonds when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the Authority issuing the same, and the State and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said Towns County Water and Sewerage Authority.
Sec. 20. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such Authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Towns County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to the validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 21. - Interests of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said Authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and right of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the Authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the State itself so compete with the Authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the Authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 22. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, a grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
Sec. 23. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise same from time to time and to collect fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities and commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of a water system, a sewerage system or a combined water and sewerage system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Sec. 24. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the Authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which water service and facilities, sewerage service and facilities, or both, shall be furnished.
Sec. 25. - Tort immunity.
The Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Towns County; and the officers, agents and employees of the Authority when in the performance of the work of the Authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of Towns County when in performance of their public duties or work of the County.
Sec. 26. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing. This Act does not in any way take from Towns County or any municipality located therein or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate and maintain a water system, a sewerage system or a combined water and sewerage system, or to issue revenue bond as is provided by the Revenue Bond Law.
Sec. 27. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the State and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
