DIVISION 12. - ADMINISTRATION OF SEWER SYSTEM

Sec. 28-445. - Authority Manager.
(a)
Authority Manager and staff. The Authority Manager and his staff shall be responsible for the administration of all sections of this division. Administratively, the Authority Manager shall be appointed by and shall report to the Board.
(b)
Authority of Authority Manager. The Authority Manager shall have the authority to enforce all sections of this division. The Manager shall be responsible and have the authority to maintain and operate the various treatment works, sewer lines, pump stations, and other appurtenances. The Manager shall be responsible for preparation of operating budgets subject to the normal budgetary processes of the Authority.
(c)
Records. The Manager shall keep in this office or at an appropriate storage facility all applications required under this division and a complete record thereof, including a record of all wastewater discharge permits.
(d)
Authority Manager to assist Board. The Manager shall attend all meetings of the Board, or when it is necessary for the Authority Manager to be absent, a designated representative shall be sent to make reports to and assist the Board in the administration of this article.
(e)
Notice of pretreatment standards. The Authority Manager shall notify industrial users identified in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(2) of any applicable pretreatment standards or other applicable requirements promulgated by the EPA under the provisions of section 204(b) of the Act (33 USC 1284), section 405 of the Act (33 USC 1345), or under the provisions of sections 3001 (42 USC 6921), 3304 (42 USC 6924), or 4004 (42 USC 6944) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act. Failure of the Authority Manager to notify industrial users shall not relieve the users from the responsibility of complying with these requirements.
(f)
Regulations and standards authorized. The Authority Manager may promulgate rules, regulations, and design criteria not inconsistent with this division and have them printed for distribution. These rules may include requirements for performing wastewater characterizations, analysis, and other measurements by standard methods approved by the Authority. Such rules and regulations shall be ratified and adopted by the Board.
(g)
Sewer credits. The Authority Manager shall approve secondary meters and determine other kinds of sewer user charge credits.
(h)
Approves new construction. The Authority Manager shall give approval through acceptance of newly constructed sanitary sewer lines, pump stations, and other appurtenances.
(i)
Emergency powers. The Authority Manager shall have the authority to take whatever emergency action he deems necessary whenever a situation occurs that creates danger to the personnel of the Authority or the facilities of the system or where there is a danger to public health.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 13-1)
Secs. 28-446—28-473. - Reserved.
