Chapter 32 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4); authority of county to regulate traffic in unincorporated areas, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; Uniform Rules of the Road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.; power of local authorities generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 32-1. - Parking on paved portion of County roads.
(a)
No person shall stop, park or leave standing any unattended motor vehicle upon the paved portion of any County road when it is practicable to stop, park or leave such motor vehicle off the paved portion of such roadway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the roadway opposite a standing motor vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other motor vehicles and a clear view of such stopped motor vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such roadway.
(b)
This section shall not apply to the driver of any motor vehicle which is disabled while on the paved portion of a County road in such a manner and to such an extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled motor vehicle in such position.
(c)
Whenever any Police Officer or Deputy Sheriff finds a vehicle in violation of this section, such Officer is authorized to move such motor vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the motor vehicle to move the same to a position off the paved portion of the roadway. Any Police Officer or Deputy Sheriff is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a place of safety any unattended motor vehicle illegally left standing upon the paved portion of any County road.
(d)
Any person violating the terms of this section may be punished according to section 1-13. Jurisdiction over offenses under this section shall be in the Magistrate Court. Each day that a violation of this section shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Code 2005, § 58-1; Ord. of 2-9-1993, §§ 2—5)
Secs. 32-2—32-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - JUNK VEHICLES

Sec. 32-21. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Junk vehicle and inoperative vehicle include, but are not limited to, any automobile, truck, vehicle, trailer of any kind or type, or contrivance or part thereof, the condition of which is 1 or more of the following:
(1)
Wrecked;
(2)
Dismantled;
(3)
Partly dismantled;
(4)
Inoperative;
(5)
Abandoned; or
(6)
Discarded.
(b)
Vehicles excepted and excluded from coverage under the terms of this article are farm equipment and machinery, logging and pulpwooding equipment and machinery, construction equipment and machinery, campers, old buses which are actively being used as campers or for storage, and tractor trailers being actively used for storage.
(Code 2005, § 58-31; Ord. of 3-7-1989, art. II)
Sec. 32-22. - Parking.
The following conditions allow the parking or standing of junk vehicles on any property within the unincorporated areas of the County:
(1)
Junked vehicles which are enclosed within a barn, garage or building;
(2)
Junked vehicles on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful manner for the purpose of repairing, reconditioning or remodeling of vehicles in conformance with the requirements for an automobile repair garage or other such similar use. Such vehicles shall not be stored for the purpose of salvage of parts, but shall be in continual process of repair or reconditioning;
(3)
Junked antique vehicles, as defined by now repealed O.C.G.A. § 40-2-75, means any motor vehicle which is over 25 years old or a motor vehicle which has been designed and manufactured to resemble an antique or historical vehicle and which is owned as a collector's item and for participation in club activities, exhibitions, tours, parades, and similar uses but which may be used for general transportation, which are in the process of being restored or which are being stored for future restoration, provided that such antique vehicles are either located in back of a building, screened by a fence or plant material or substantially out of sight from either Federal, State or County roads. This subsection shall apply only to persons who restore and recondition antique vehicles as a hobby and shall not be applicable to persons who either own junkyards or persons who recondition and restore antique vehicles as a business or for profit.
(4)
Junked vehicles located on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful manner as a wrecker or towing service for a period of 45 days.
(Code 2005, § 58-32; Ord. of 3-7-1989, art. IV, § 7)
Sec. 32-23. - Unlawful acts.
Except as specifically authorized in section 32-22, it shall be unlawful:
(1)
For any person to maintain 5 or more junk vehicles for more than 30 days (except vehicles being held pursuant to lawful impoundment by any law enforcement agency), without first obtaining and maintaining a valid State license, if applicable, a County permit, and complying with the requirements of this article.
(2)
For any person to store, buy, sell and deal in junk vehicles, regardless of the number of junk vehicles involved, without first obtaining and maintaining a valid State license, if applicable, and a County permit, and complying with the requirements of this article.
(Code 2005, § 58-33; Ord. of 3-7-1989, art. IV, § 8)
