ARTICLE II. - LITTER

Sec. 28-23. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means all sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals or discarded materials of every kind and description.
Public and private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreation area; and residential or farm properties, timberlands or forests.
(Code 2005, § 50-61; Ord. of 11-30-1984, § 8.5-3)
Sec. 28-24. - Dumping, depositing, etc., on public or private property or water.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave, or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in the County or any water in the County, unless:
(1)
The property is designated by the County or political subdivisions located within the County for the disposal of litter and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed into a litter receptacle or container installed on such property; or
(3)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or has first obtained consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare.
(Code 2005, § 50-62; Ord. of 11-30-1984, § 8.5-4)
Sec. 28-25. - Prima facie evidence; rebuttable presumption.
(a)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane or other conveyance in violation of section 28-24, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
(b)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown or left on public or private property in violation of this article is discovered to contain any article or articles, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this article.
(Code 2005, § 50-63; Ord. of 11-30-1984, § 8.5-6)
Sec. 28-26. - Enforcement.
All law enforcement agencies, officers and officials of this State or any political subdivision thereof, or any enforcement agency, officer or any official of any commission of this State or any political subdivision thereof, is authorized, empowered and directed to enforce this article.
(Code 2005, § 50-64; Ord. of 11-30-1984, § 8.5-7)
Sec. 28-27. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
Any person who violates this article shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction in the Magistrate Court of the County, shall be punished according to section 1-13.
(b)
In the sound discretion of the court in which a conviction is obtained, the person so convicted may be sentenced to pick up and remove litter from any public street or highway or public right-of-way in lieu of being incarcerated in the County Jail.
(c)
In the sound discretion of the judge of a court in which conviction is obtained, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public park, private right-of-way, or, with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that he has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by any person prior to the date of execution of sentence.
(Code 2005, § 50-65; Ord. of 12-4-1990)
Secs. 28-28—28-57. - Reserved.
