DIVISION 4. - PRIVATE DOMESTIC WASTEWATER DISPOSAL

Sec. 28-146. - Availability.
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of section 28-771, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 5-1)
Sec. 28-147. - Requirements.
(a)
A private domestic wastewater disposal system may not be constructed within the sewer service area unless and until a written statement is obtained from the Authority stating that a public sewer is not accessible to the property and no such sewer is proposed for construction in the immediate future. No written statement shall be issued for any private domestic wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than that specified by zoning regulations and the Walker County Health Department.
(b)
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain written permission from the Walker County Health Department. The owner shall supply any plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the Walker County Health Department.
(c)
A private sewage disposal system shall not be placed in operation until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Walker County Health Department. They shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the owner shall notify the Walker County Health Department when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within a reasonable period of time after the receipt of notice by the Walker County Health Department.
(d)
The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the EPD and the Walker County Health Department. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(e)
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the Authority.
(f)
No statement contained in this division shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Walker County Health Department.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 5-2)
Secs. 28-148—28-177. - Reserved.
