Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local ordinances authorized, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-18.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The terms used in this chapter shall have the meaning set out in O.C.G.A. § 4-1-1 et seq., unless otherwise defined in chapter 1, or unless the context clearly indicates a contrary meaning.
(Code 2007, § 8-100)
Sec. 6-2. - Enforcement.
(a)
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the law enforcement officers of the city, who shall take reasonable steps necessary and consistent with federal, state and local law to ensure the health, safety and general welfare of the public.
(b)
Upon information known to or a sworn complaint lodged with such officer, that any owner or possessor of an animal is in violation of this chapter, summons may be issued by such law enforcement officer requiring the owner or possessor of such animal to appear before the municipal court of the city, on a day and time certain, to stand trial for violation of this chapter. If such violation of this chapter has not been witnessed by a law enforcement officer, agent or employee of the city, a subpoena shall be issued to the person making the complaint, to be and appear on the day and time set to testify on behalf of the city.
(Code 2007, § 8-100)
Sec. 6-3. - Nonliability of officer.
Any law enforcement officer, in the course of enforcing this section, shall exercise every reasonable care to prevent the injury, illness, death, escape, or pilfering of any animal with which he deals in carrying out the provisions of this chapter, but he shall not be responsible for any such occurrences.
(Code 2007, § 8-101)
Sec. 6-4. - Obstruction of officer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, interfere, harass, or otherwise obstruct the performance of any law enforcement officer in the official performance of his duties, including carrying out this chapter. It shall be unlawful to attempt to or to release any animal captured or impounded. Tampering with traps or other capture devices utilized by a law enforcement officer is prohibited.
(Code 2007, § 8-102)
Sec. 6-5. - Barking, noisy animals.
No person shall keep or harbor an animal which, by loud and frequent barking, howling, yelping, growling or any other noise, causes serious disturbance to any of the people of the city. Such animal shall be impounded upon written complaint of four or more citizens living within 500 feet of any property upon which such animal is confined, pending a determination by the municipal court judge of whether or not such animal is creating a serious disturbance.
(Code 2007, § 8-111)
Sec. 6-6. - Injured animals.
The animal control officer shall have the authority to humanely dispose of an animal which is injured and lying in the street or public way of the city, whenever it shall appear that such an animal is injured and is suffering great pain and does not bear a tag identifying the owner, and no determination as to the owner of such animal can be made with a reasonable inquiry or investigation.
(Code 2007, § 8-113)
Sec. 6-7. - Records.
The animal control officer shall keep accurate written records showing the final disposition of all animals impounded by him, which records shall be open and available for public inspection.
(Code 2007, § 8-114)
Sec. 6-8. - Protection of sanitation workers.
An animal owner is required to place his garbage containers at a location on his premises which is not in an enclosure containing animals, so that employees of the city sanitation department will not be subject to attack by the owner's animals.
(Code 2007, § 8-115)
Sec. 6-9. - Animals at large.
An animal is to be on a leash or in the immediate control of its owner or his agent or on the owner's property. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats, or poultry to run at large in the city.
(Code 2007, § 8-102)
Sec. 6-10. - Delegation of authority.
Whenever a provision requires an officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize any other officer or person employed by the city and charged under the terms of employment, or otherwise authorized by the city council, to do the required act or perform the required duty.
Secs. 6-11—6-44. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - VACCINATIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— County responsible for local control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.

Sec. 6-45. - Rabies.
(a)
If an animal is believed to have rabies, or if an animal or person has been bitten by an animal suspected of having rabies, such animal shall be confined and impounded in a facility of a competent veterinarian or animal control facility, if available, and shall be placed under the observation of a veterinarian, at the expense of the owner, in accordance with the rules and regulations of the county board of health.
(b)
Whenever an animal is ascertained to be rabid, notification of same shall be made to the owner and reported to the county board of health as required by law, and the animal shall be summarily destroyed.
(Code 2007, § 8-201)
Sec. 6-46. - Required.
All persons residing within the city limits who own, have and keep animals within the city limits are required to keep the animals vaccinated as required by law.
(Code 2007, § 8-116)
Sec. 6-47. - Collar; inoculation tag; identification.
It shall be unlawful for any owner of an animal to allow such animal in any area in the city without a collar which shall have attached a valid vaccination tag as required by the laws of the state, and an identification showing the name and address of the owner of such animal. It shall be the duty of each animal owner to provide a collar with identification as provided in this section and an inoculation tag for each animal, except when such animal is under immediate control of the owner.
(Code 2007, § 8-106)
Secs. 6-48—6-67. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - IMPOUNDING ANIMALS

Sec. 6-68. - Impounding animals.
The city police officers are hereby authorized to impound animals as necessary in the event of an alleged violation of this chapter or other state or federal law. When impounding any animal, the officer must adhere to the procedures and requirements provided by O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.2 et seq.
State Law reference— Authority and procedures for impounding animals, notice to owner and disposition, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.2 et seq.; requirement to search for microchip, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-5.2.
Secs. 6-69—6-94. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - VICIOUS ANIMALS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Dangerous dog regulation via the Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.

Sec. 6-95. - Authority.
The city police officers are hereby authorized as dog control officers and may enforce the provisions of the Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.
