Chapter 6 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
modified
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of cities and counties to restrict adult bookstores, explicit media outlets, and adult movie houses to certain areas, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3; state regulation of coin-operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 et seq.; state regulation of billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1 et seq.; authority of town to regulate billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-2; state regulation of carnivals, circuses and itinerant entertainers, O.C.G.A. § 43-1-15.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Coin-operated amusement device.
(1)
The term "coin-operated amusement device," as used in this chapter, means any amusement machine or device operated by means of the insertion of a coin, token, or similar object, for the purpose of amusement or skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged.
(2)
The term "coin-operated amusement device" does not include vending machines in which are not incorporated gaming or amusement features, nor does the term include any coin-operated mechanical musical devices.
Operator, as used in this chapter, means any person who sets up for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose of operation by another, any device as defined in this section, whether such setting up for operation, leasing or distributing is for a fixed charge or rental, or on the basis of a division of the income derived from such device, or otherwise.
Proprietor means any person or club who, as the owner, lessee, or proprietor, has under his or its control any establishment, place or premises in or at which such device is placed or kept for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
(Ord. of 11-2-1981, § 1)
Secs. 6-2—6-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSE

Sec. 6-21. - Required.
No person shall engage in the business of an operator or proprietor of a coin-operated amusement device, as the term is defined in section 6-1, without first obtaining the proper license therefor.
(Ord. of 11-2-1981, § 2)
Sec. 6-22. - Operator's fee.
The license fee for each operator shall be $250.00 per year for the first 50 devices set up for operation, or leased or distributed to any proprietor. If more than 50 devices are set up for operation, or leased or distributed by the same operator, then such operator shall take out another operator's license at the fee of $100.00 for each additional 25 devices, or fraction thereof in excess of the first 50. All operators' license fees shall be payable annually in advance, provided that where an application is made after the expiration of any portion of any license year, a license may be issued for the remainder thereof upon the payment of a proportionate part of the annual fee. In no case shall any portion of the license fee be refunded to the licensee.
(Ord. of 11-2-1981, § 3)
Sec. 6-23. - Proprietor's fee.
The license fee for each proprietor as defined in section 6-1 shall be $50.00 per year for each device used or played, or exhibited for use or play. All proprietors' license fees shall be payable annually in advance, provided that where an application is made after the expiration of any portion of any license year, a license may be issued for the remainder thereof upon the payment of a proportionate part of the annual fee. In no case shall any portion of the license fee be repaid to the licensee.
(Ord. of 11-2-1981, § 4)
Sec. 6-24. - Application; contents; fee.
(a)
Application for a license under this article shall be filed in writing with the city clerk, on a form to be provided by the city, and shall specify:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant, and if a firm, corporation, partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses.
(2)
The address of the premises where the licensed devices are to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on at such place.
(3)
That the applicant is of good character and has never been convicted of a felony.
(4)
The trade name and general description of the devices to be licensed, the name of the manufacturer and the serial number and, if the applicant is a proprietor, the number of devices to be licensed.
5)
The name and address of the operator of the devices, if other than the proprietor.
(b)
The proper license fee shall accompany such application for a license under this article. It shall be referred by the city clerk to the mayor and council who shall make or cause to be made such investigation as they deem necessary. If the application is approved by the mayor and council, the license shall be issued by the clerk. If the license is denied the fee shall be returned to the applicant. All licenses under this article shall expire on December 31 following their issuance. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the establishment of the licensee. Such license shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and, in the case of a proprietor, shall apply only to the premises for which such license is issued.
(Ord. of 11-2-1981, § 5)
Sec. 6-25. - Increasing number of devices.
In case a proprietor licensed under the provisions of this article desires, after the expiration of any portion of any license year, to increase the number of devices to be used or played, or exhibited for use or play in his establishment, he shall surrender his license to the city clerk who shall issue a new license showing the number of devices licensed thereunder, upon the payment of the proper license fee therefor.
(Ord. of 11-2-1981, § 6)
Sec. 6-26. - Regulations on amusement devices.
(a)
No coin-operated amusement device therein shall be operated so as to constitute a public nuisance.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to maintain order on the licensed premises at all times.
(c)
It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to see that the licensed premises do not become overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard to the health or safety of persons therein.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of operating an amusement center to sell, offer for sale or knowingly permit to be sold or offered for sale or to be dispensed or consumed or brought on the licensed premises any alcoholic beverages.
(e)
Every premises licensed under this article shall have affixed within the building in plain view evidence of the issuance of its license, however, it is not required that the license be affixed to each machine.
(f)
The license required and described in this article shall be purely a personal privilege and shall not constitute property. It is not transferable in any manner.
(g)
Any violation of the Criminal Code of Georgia (O.C.G.A. Title 26), or of any ordinance, shall result in immediate revocation of a license issued under this article.
(Ord. of 11-2-1981, § 8)
Sec. 6-27. - Revocation.
The mayor and council shall have the right to revoke any license issued under this article for the violation of any of the provisions of this article, after written notice to the licensee, which notice shall specify the violation charged, and provide an opportunity for a hearing within ten days. At such hearing the licensee may present evidence and witnesses in his defense. The burden of proof at such hearing shall be on the party alleging the violations charged.
(Ord. of 11-2-1981, § 9)
