PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 633), page 3872, as amended. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, the terms "mayor's court" and/or "recorder's court" have been changed to "municipal courts." The words "councilmembers," "councilmember," and "seats" are changed to "councilmember," "councilmembers," and "posts," respectively, pursuant to the Charter amendment made by city council by virtue of Ordinance of 12-11-1999.
State Law reference— Home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II; creation, dissolution, merger, boundary changes, and deannexation of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-2; municipal annexations, O.C.G.A. § 36-36-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities and authority for amendment of local Charter by ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; requirement for filing and publication of Charter, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-5; incorporation of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq.; terms city, town, and municipality declared synonymous, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1.

ARTICLE I. - CHARTER, CITY LIMITS AND CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1.1. - [Body politic and corporate continued.]
This act shall constitute the whole Charter of the City of Cave Spring, Georgia, repealing and replacing the Charter as provided by Georgia Laws of 1920, p. 818, as amended. The City of Cave Spring, Georgia, in the County of Floyd, and the inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the City of Cave Spring, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may contract and contract with, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Sec. 1.2. - City boundaries.
Be it further enacted that the boundaries of the City of Cave Spring shall be as described:
Extending three-fourths of a mile in every direction from a center point at the southwest corner of the intersection of Broad Street and Alabama Street in said city and Floyd County, Georgia; which center point also is located at the northeast corner of the brick building formerly occupied by J. F. Hight as a drug store, as referred to in the 1920 Charter of said city.
In addition to the corporate limits of the city as described in this section and as existed on the effective date of this paragraph, the corporate limits of the City of Cave Spring shall also include certain state property used by the Georgia School for the Deaf, described as follows:
All that tract or parcel of land situated lying and being in Land Lots 940, 941 and 1004 of the 3rd district and 4th section of Floyd County, Georgia, and more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at a point on the east line of land lot 940 which is S 01° 10[UNK][UNK]W, a distance of 406.4 feet from the northeast corner of land lot 940; thence, east for a distance of 362.0 feet to a concrete monument; thence, south for a distance of 560.0 feet to a concrete monument; thence, west for a distance of 730.0 feet to a concrete monument; thence, north for a distance of 560.0 feet to a concrete monument; thence, east for a distance of 368.0 feet to the point of beginning. Said tract containing 9.4 acres;
All that tract or parcel of land which constitutes a 30 feet wide ingress and egress easement from the above-described state property to a county-maintained road, and more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at a point on the south line of and west a distance of 156.4 feet from the southeast corner of the above-described property; thence, S 04° 38[UNK] E, for a distance of 350.0 feet to a point in the center of a dirt drive; thence, N 85° 22 E, for a distance of 31.3 feet to a point in the center of an asphalt paved drive; thence, N 60° 09[UNK] E, for a distance of 897.0 feet to a point on the right-of-way of a county-maintained road, said point being S 18° 03[UNK] W a distance of 1,155.0 feet from a concrete monument located at the intersection of the northerly boundary of the Georgia School for the Deaf, Campus #2 and the westerly right-of-way line of the said county-maintained road. Said tract containing 0.9 acres;
All that tract or parcel of land which constitutes a utility easement extending from the above-described state property southerly to a point thence branching, one extension to the east and one extension to the south and southwest; said easement having a width of 150 feet, being 75 feet on each side of the following described centerline:
Beginning at a point on the south line of the above-described property, which point is located 150 feet west of the southeast corner of said property; thence, S 04° 30[UNK] W, for a distance of 290 feet to the point of branching; the centerline of the eastern branch of said easement, having a width of 100 feet (50 feet on either side of said centerline) continues from said point of branching N 67° 30[UNK] E, a distance of 630 feet to a point; thence, S 66° 20[UNK] 220 feet to the right-of-way of a county-maintained road. The centerline of the southern branch of said easement having a width of 150 feet (75 feet on either side of said centerline) continues from said point of branching S 4° 30[UNK] E, a distance of 90 feet to a point; thence, S 13° 20[UNK] W, a distance of 150 feet to a point; and
All that tract or parcel of land which constitutes an electrical utility easement extending from the above-described state property southerly and easterly, having a width of 100 feet, being 50 feet on either side of the following described centerline:
Beginning at a point on the south line of the above-described property, which point is located 90 feet from the southwest corner of said property, thence, S 16° 0[UNK] W, a distance of 185 feet to a point; thence, S 68° 15[UNK] E, a distance of 100 feet to a point.
(1994 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1086), page 4885, § 1)
Sec. 1.3. - Corporate powers.
Be it further enacted, that the corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the city council, may include the following:
(a)
To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, re-evaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation.
(b)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions.
(c)
To appropriate and borrow money to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose, or for matters of national or state interest, and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this Charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
(d)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
(e)
To condemn property, inside or outside the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the city council, under Section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia 1933, or under other applicable public acts.
(f)
To acquire, construct, operate, distribute, sell and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a waterworks system, sewerage system, a natural gas system, and a community antenna television system, both inside and outside the corporate limits, subject to the provisions of applicable general law. For water and gas furnished, and for all sewerage and sanitary services rendered, said city may prescribe the charges, rates, fares, fees, regulations and standards and conditions of service to be provided and shall have a lien against any property of the persons served; said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
(g)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services including but not limited to those stated above, not to exceed periods of 50 years. The council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Public Service Commission.
(h)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia 1933, or other applicable public acts.
(i)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(j)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse. Charges or fees may be imposed to cover the costs of such services which, if unpaid, shall constitute a debt which shall be subject to a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner, and under the same remedies, as a lien for city property taxes.
(k)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city.
(l)
To define a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement. The recorder of the city shall have jurisdiction of all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The city may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of this state or any valid ordinance of the city, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten days after written notice from the city to do so.
(m)
To establish minimum standards for, and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards; provided, however, no ordinance, regulation or standards promulgated under this section shall be construed to apply to communications equipment installations made by or for a utility and required by it in the rendition of its duly authorized services to the public.
(n)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court shall work out such sentences in any public works or on the public streets of the city as provided by ordinance; or the council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to any county work camp, or jail, by agreement with the appropriate county officers.
(o)
To regulate and license, or prohibit, the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same, in violations of any ordinance or lawful orders, also to provide for their disposition, by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder.
(p)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles.
(q)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements.
(r)
To provide that upon the conviction of the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation or order, the offender may be punished within limitations prescribed by the mayor and council in such ordinance, rule, regulation, or order but not exceeding the limitations prescribed by this Charter.
(s)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under the constitution or general laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the constitution or applicable public acts of the state.
(t)
To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising said city and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital and commercial and manufacturing and other enterprises into the city, and also to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city for the support of public hospitals, and libraries.
(u)
To regulate and control public streets, public alleys and ways; and in the discretion of the mayor and council by ordinance to alter, open or close public streets and public alleys and ways without notification.
Sec. 1.4. - Ordinances.
Be it further enacted, that all ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations, now in force in said city, not inconsistent with this Act, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the mayor and council of said city.
ARTICLE II. - CITY GOVERNMENT

Sec. 2.1. - Establishment of city government.
Be it further enacted, that the corporate governmental powers of the City of Cave Spring shall be vested in a mayor and five councilmembers to be known as the mayor and council of the City of Cave Spring. The mayor and council shall be elected at large by the qualified voters of the city and shall exercise their powers in such manner as prescribed by this Charter, the constitution and applicable general laws of the State of Georgia, or if not prescribed, in such manner as prescribed by the duly established ordinance of the City of Cave Spring.
Sec. 2.2. - Qualifications for mayor and councilmembers.
Be it further enacted, that to be eligible for the office of mayor or councilmember, [elected or appointed], a person must be at least 21 years of age, be a freeholder of the city, and must meet the requirements of a qualified elector for members of the general assembly, except as hereinabove stated, as prescribed by state law and must have been a bona fide resident of the City of Cave Spring for at least one year next preceding the election in which he offers as a candidate.
Sec. 2.3. - Election of mayor and councilmembers.
Be it further enacted, that those persons presently elected to office shall continue to serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified as provided by law. On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November 1993, and on said every fourth year thereafter, three councilpersons shall be elected to seats on the city council, to be numbered seats three, four and five, respectively. Each person offering himself as a candidate shall specify the seat for which he is a candidate. The person receiving the highest number of votes cast for election to each seat shall be declared elected. On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November 1995, and on said date every fourth year thereafter, there shall be an election for the office of mayor. The person receiving the highest number of votes shall be declared elected. On the same day and month in 1995 and on said day every fourth year thereafter, two councilpersons shall be elected to seats on the city council, to be numbered seats one and two, respectively. Each person offering himself as a candidate shall specify the seat for which he is a candidate. The person receiving the highest number of votes cast for election to each seat shall be declared elected. The election of mayor and councilpersons shall be conducted in the manner hereinafter. Whenever a tie vote causes an inability to determine who is elected to an office, then the election to such office shall be decided between the tying candidates by a casting of lots conducted by and in the manner prescribed by the municipal superintendent of the election.
(1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1140), page 3124, § 1; Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 2.4. - Terms of office.
The terms of office for mayor and councilmembers shall begin on January 1 following the election, and except as otherwise provided in section 2.03 shall continue for four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 2.5. - City council.
Be it further enacted, that the governing body of said city shall be composed of a mayor and five councilmembers, in which is vested all corporate, legislative and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this Act. The council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place as provided by ordinance. The council shall meet in special sessions on call of the mayor or the mayor pro tem and two councilmembers, and notice of which has been served on the other members personally or left at their residence at least 12 hours in advance of the meeting. But such notice of a special meeting shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of a special meeting shall be considered waived if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is convened. Only the business stated in the written call may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the council. The council shall exercise its powers in public meetings. A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum. The council may, by ordinance, adopt rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business; including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. The council may provide by ordinance for punishment for contemptuous behavior conducted in the presence of the council.
Sec. 2.6. - Mayor as presiding officer.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor shall preside at meetings of the council, shall have a vote only in the case of a tie vote by councilmembers; shall have veto power, and the mayor shall have five days after meetings of the council in which to file with the clerk in writing his dissent, but the council may at the same meeting or at any subsequent meeting within 30 days, pass any such ordinances, order or resolution, notwithstanding the veto, by a vote of four-fifths of the total number of councilmembers, to be taken by ayes and nays, and entered upon the minutes; shall be the ceremonial head of the city; shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage; may obtain short-term loans in the name of the city when authorized by the council to do so; shall sign deeds, bonds and contracts when authorized by the council to do so; and shall perform such other duties imposed by this Charter and duly adopted ordinances.
Sec. 2.7. - Mayor pro tem.
Be it further enacted, that the council at the first regular meeting, and after the newly elected councilmembers have taken office following each regular election, shall elect from its membership a mayor pro tem for a term of one year. Upon the council's failure to elect a mayor pro tem at its first meeting in February of each year, the incumbent councilmember who received the highest number of votes, when last elected, shall be declared mayor pro tem. The mayor pro tem shall perform the duties of the mayor during his absence from the city or his disability.
Sec. 2.8. - Vacancy in office of mayor or councilmembers.
Be it further enacted, that a vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilmembers resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, or is absent from four consecutive regular meetings of the governing authority, except if granted a leave of absence by the council; or if he is adjudged incompetent or is convicted of malfeasance in office, or of a felony, or any violation of election laws. The council shall appoint a qualified person to fill any such vacancy in the office of councilmember for the remainder of the unexpired term.
At no time shall there be more than one councilmember so appointed holding office; and if a vacancy occurs on the council with one member so appointed on the council, a special election shall be held within a period of 45 days after the office becomes vacant pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this Charter; however, if a special election is called pursuant to this Charter, the vacancy previously filled by appointment as well as the existing vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired terms in a special election. Provided, however, if a regular election for the city shall be held within three months after the second vacancy occurs, the first vacancy previously filled by appointment and the second vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired terms at such regular election.
In the event a vacancy should occur in the office of the mayor, a special election shall be called and held in the manner prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Election Code (Title 34A, Code of Ga. 1933) as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
Sec. 2.9. - Compensation and expenses.
Be it further enacted that the council may determine the salary of the mayor and councilmembers by ordinances, provided that salary changes enacted shall not become effective until the expiration of a period of six months after such change. Each councilmember and the mayor, when authorized by the council and upon presentation of itemized vouchers shall receive his actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of his duties of office.
Sec. 2.10. - City clerk.
Be it further enacted, that the council shall appoint a city clerk who shall be ex officio treasurer. He shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the council; attending meetings of the council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered, and the text of each resolution or ordinance considered; preparing and certifying copies of official records in his office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the council or mayor.
The mayor and council shall require the clerk-treasurer, before entering upon discharge of his duties to give good and sufficient bond in amount to be decided by the mayor and council, but not less than $2,500.00, said bond payable to the City of Cave Spring, for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia and approved by the mayor and council, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the city.
Sec. 2.11. - City legislation.
Be it further enacted, that any action of the council, having a regulatory or penal effect or required to be done by ordinance under this act, shall be done only by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least three members of the council shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose; and the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk.
Sec. 2.12. - Readings.
Be it further enacted that no ordinance, except in the case of an emergency which shall be stated in the ordinance, shall be approved until it shall have been read at two consecutive council meetings not less than ten days apart.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Sec. 3.1. - Organization.
Be it further enacted, that the city government shall continue as presently organized, unless and until otherwise provided by ordinance. The council, by such ordinances, may establish, abolish, merge or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city; may provide that the same person shall fill a number of offices and positions of employment, and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city.
Sec. 3.2. - Administrative duties of mayor.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor shall be the executive head of the city government, responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules and regulations, ordinances and franchises in the city; and the city attorney shall take such legal action as the mayor may direct for such purposes. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such powers and duties as may be provided by ordinance not inconsistent with this Charter.
Sec. 3.3. - City attorney.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a part; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court, shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city, concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs.
Sec. 3.4. - Oath of office.
Be it further enacted, that before a person takes any office in the city government, he shall take before an officer of the state, authorized to administer oaths, the following such oath or affirmation:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Georgia; that I will in all respects observe the provisions of the Charter and ordinances of the City of Cave Spring, and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of [title]. So help me God."
Sec. 3.5. - Political activity prohibited.
Be it further enacted, that no officer or employee of the city, other than the mayor and councilmembers shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination of election to any city office.
Sec. 3.6. - Personal financial interest.
Be it further enacted, that any city officer or employee who has a financial interest, direct or indirect or by reason of ownership of stock in any corporation, in any contract with the city or in the sale of any land, material, supplies or services to the city or to a contractor supplying the city shall make known that interest by announcement at a council meeting or in writing to the city clerk and shall refrain from voting upon or otherwise participating in his capacity as a city officer or employee in the making of such sale or in the making or performance of such contract. Any city officer or employee who willfully conceals such financial interest or willfully violates the requirements of this section shall upon conviction be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall forfeit his office or position. Violation of this section with the knowledge express or implied of the person or corporation contracting with or making a sale to the city shall render the contract or sale voidable by the mayor and council.
Sec. 3.7. - City planning and renewal.
Be it further enacted, that the council may create and establish a planning commission pursuant to the provisions of general law as they now exist or as they may hereinafter be amended.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 4.1. - Fiscal year.
Be it further enacted, that the fiscal year of the city government shall begin on July 1 and shall end on June 30 of each year, but a different fiscal year may be fixed by ordinance for the entire city government or for any utility. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for fiscal accounting and reporting of every office, department, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 4.2. - Mayor to submit annual budget.
Be it further enacted, that on or before a date fixed by the council, but not later than 45 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed operating budget for the next fiscal year, showing separately for the general funds, each utility, and each other fund the following:
(a)
The revenue and expenditure during the preceding fiscal year;
(b)
Appropriations and estimated revenue and expenditures for the current fiscal year;
(c)
Estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year;
(d)
A comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves, and surplus at the end of the preceding fiscal year and estimated assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year; and
(e)
Such other information and data, as may be considered necessary by the mayor and council.
Sec. 4.3. - Action by council on budget.
Be it further enacted, that before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the council shall adopt an appropriate ordinance, based on the mayor's budget, with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department, office, and agency unless otherwise directed by the council. The council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, or lives, safety or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city; provided the council unanimously agrees that there is such an emergency. If conditions prevent the adoption of an appropriation ordinance before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment as provided by ordinance specifically passed for such purpose.
Sec. 4.4. - Additional appropriations.
Be it further enacted, that the council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budgets, at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose, but any such additional appropriation may be made only for an existing unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies.
Sec. 4.5. - Lapse of appropriations.
Be it further enacted, that all unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget at the end of the fiscal year shall lapse into the unappropriated surplus or reserves of the fund or funds from which such appropriations were made.
Sec. 4.6. - Capital improvements budget.
Be it further enacted, that:
(a)
On or before a date fixed by the council but not later than 45 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing such improvements. The council shall have power to accept with or without amendments or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such projects are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening the lives, health or property of the inhabitants, when passed by four-fifths vote to the membership of the council. Such capital improvements budget may be revised and extended each year with regard to the capital improvements still pending or in the process of construction or acquisition.
(b)
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the council shall adopt an appropriate ordinance based on the proposed capital improvements budget, with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned, provided the mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a majority vote of the council.
Sec. 4.7. - Sale of city property.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council may sell any city property which is obsolete, surplus or unusable at public or private sale, with or without advertisement; and for such consideration as the mayor and council shall deem equitable and just to the city.
Editor's note— This section is obsolete and superseded by O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6.
Sec. 4.8. - Annual audit.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council shall employ a public accountant or certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the mayor and council and shall prepare a summary of the report which shall be furnished or made available to the mayor and every councilmember.
Sec. 4.9. - Publication of financial statement.
Be it further enacted, that as soon as practicable after the close of the fiscal year, but within six months after the close thereof, the mayor and council shall cause to be published in a local newspaper, a statement of financial condition which shall contain a statement of revenues and expenditures showing all municipal accounts as of the close of such preceding fiscal year. Such statement of financial condition shall be prepared so as to fairly represent the general financial condition of the city, as of the close of the preceding fiscal year.
Sec. 4.10. - Property taxes.
Be it further enacted, that all property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1, in each year, shall be subject to a property tax levied by the city. All property subject to taxation in the city shall be returned for taxes each year on or before April 1. If such return is not made, the mayor and council is authorized to assess a penalty of not more than ten percent of the taxes due on said property. Taxes shall be due on October 1 of each year and shall become past due or delinquent if not paid on or before December 20, of each year. The council by ordinance may elect to use the county assessment for the year in which city taxes are to be levied, or may provide for an independent city evaluation or assessment as provided by Georgia law. If an independent city assessment is made, a board of equalization, consisting of three freeholders of the city appointed by the mayor and council, with compensation fixed by ordinance, shall hear appeals of taxpayers taken within ten days after the city clerk has sent a notice, by ordinary mail, of a new or increased assessment; provided that such notice shall not be required, nor may appeals be taken, in the case of initial city assessments that are the same as county assessments. Except as otherwise provided in this section, appeals involving city property assessments may be taken as now or as may hereinafter be provided by general law.
Sec. 4.11. - Tax levy.
Be it further enacted, that the council is authorized to make a tax levy, expressed as a fixed millage rate per $100.00, but not in excess of an aggregate of 20 mills, of assessed valuation.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 4.12. - Tax due date and tax bills.
Be it further enacted, that the due date of property taxes shall be October 1, of each year. The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers, showing the assessed valuations, amount of taxes due, tax due dates and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent if not paid on or before December 20, of each year, at which time a penalty of ten percent in addition to a fi. fa. charge shall be added and thereafter such taxes shall be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent per annum, from the due date until paid. On and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court or record.
Said city shall have the right, power and authority to provide by ordinance for the return of all real and personal property for taxation, to provide for the compelling of such return, and to provide penalties for failure to do so; to double tax defaulters, after a due notice and hearing to be prescribed by the mayor and council, for the current or any previous year, not in any conflict with any limitation prescribed by the laws of Georgia; to prescribe the time or times at which said returns are due; to provide the time or times when said taxes shall be due and payable.
Sec. 4.13. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
Be it further enacted, that the council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk and executed by the chief of police under the same procedure provided by laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by the use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of January 1 of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for federal, state or county taxes.
Sec. 4.14. - Transfer of executions.
Be it further enacted, that the city clerk of the City of Cave Spring shall be authorized to transfer and assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for street, sewer, or any other assessment in the same manner, upon the same terms, and to the same effect, and thereby vest the purchaser or transferee, with the same rights as in cases of sales or transfers of tax fi. fas. as now provided by law; and all sales of property hereafter made under execution in behalf of the city for the collection of street, sewer and other assessments, the owner, as the case may be, are authorized to redeem same within the same time and on compliance with the same terms and payment of the same premium, interest and costs, as in cases of redemption of property where sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fa., as the same now exists, or as may from time to time be provided by law.
Sec. 4.15. - Special assessments.
Be it further enacted, that the council may assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent 30 days after their due dates, and shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of ten percent and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of seven percent per annum from due date until paid. A lien for such amount plus fi. fa. charges, interest and penalties, shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this article for city property taxes.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 5.1. - Regular elections.
Time for holding and taking office. Be it further enacted that the regular election of mayor and councilmembers shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in odd-numbered years, pursuant to the Georgia Election Code. Officials elected at any regular election shall take office at the first regular meeting of the mayor and council in January next following such election. Such regular elections shall be non-partisan.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 5.2. - Qualification of candidates.
Be it further enacted that any person desiring to become a candidate in any regular or special election, shall file written notice of his candidacy with the city clerk as set by the Georgia Election Code. The notice of candidacy shall be accompanied by such qualification fee, as may be required by ordinance or by state law.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 5.3. - Qualification of electors.
Be it further enacted, that any person meeting the qualifications of an elector of members of the general assembly under state law who has been a bona fide resident of the City of Cave Spring for 30 days next preceding the election in which he desires to vote, shall be qualified to register as an elector in any city election held under this Charter.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001; Ord. of 12-11-2007)
Sec. 5.4. - Applicability of general laws.
Be it further enacted, that except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the election of all officials of the City of Cave Spring where provision is made for election by the qualified voters thereof, shall be conducted as to primary, special or general elections in conformity so far as applicable with the provisions of the Georgia Election Code as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 5.5. - Time of election—Ballots.
Be it further enacted, that the polls shall be opened from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. or as set by the Georgia Election Code.
Sec. 5.6. - Place of elections.
Be it further enacted, that the polling place or places for holding elections shall be prescribed by the mayor and council and shall be published in the election notice as required by law.
Sec. 5.7. - Voter registration.
Be it further enacted, that in all elections held in the City of Cave Spring, whether primary elections, special or general elections, the voters, in addition to the qualifications already prescribed, shall be registered as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Sec. 5.8. - Rules.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor and council are hereby authorized to enact by ordinance such additional rules consistent with this Charter and general laws as are deemed necessary for the conduct of elections.
Sec. 5.9. - Absentee ballots.
Be it further enacted that the mayor and council in its discretion is authorized to provide by ordinance for absentee ballots for any city election.
Sec. 5.10. - Special elections; call.
The governing authority shall issue the call for any special election; and in the event of a vacancy to be filled in a special election, the governing authority shall issue the call within ten days after such vacancy occurs.
ARTICLE VI. - MUNICIPAL COURT
DIVISION I. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6.1. - Judge.
(a)
The judge of the municipal court shall be at least 21 years of age and shall reside in Floyd County. The judge shall be appointed by the mayor and council and shall serve at their discretion.
(b)
The mayor shall have authority to appoint standby associate judges to serve from time to time in the judge's absence. Any standby associate judge shall possess the qualifications set forth in subsection (a) of this section for the judge of the municipal court.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Editor's note— Section 6.1(a) (Judge) has been expressly superseded as conflicting with O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1.1 (Requirements for municipal court judges).
Sec. 6.2. - Sessions.
(a)
A regular session of the municipal court shall be held at least once each month at a fixed hour of a fixed day as may be determined by the judge, provided that any session may be dispensed with when there is no business pending in the court or no cases are ready for trial.
(b)
The municipal court may hold special sessions of court when, in the judge's opinion, it is necessary or there is urgent cause for the trial of accused persons before the next regularly scheduled session of the court.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.3. - Clerk.
(a)
There shall be a clerk of court.
(b)
The clerk of court shall:
(1)
Prepare all subpoenas and warrants and maintain a docket thereof that will show the name of the person for whom the subpoena or warrant was issued, its date, at whose instance it was issued and to whom it was delivered.
(2)
Be the custodian of the seal of the court and have authority to certify copies of all official records of the court and to maintain the proper books of accounts, including receipts and disbursements, which the court may maintain.
(3)
Perform such other duties as may be imposed by the judge.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.4. - Rules.
The municipal court shall be controlled by the rules of the superior court, as far as they are applicable to municipal courts, and a sound construction of the constitutions of the state and of the United States and the Charter and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.5. - Practice.
The city shall have the opening and conclusion of each case, unless the defendant introduces no evidence; then the defendant shall be entitled to the conclusion. The city shall announce first whether it is ready for trial, and if not ready shall be held to as strict a showing for a continuance as the defendant. The rules of evidence shall be the same as in the superior court, as far applicable to the case on trial.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.6. - Persons charged with offense; summons; trial.
Any person who is charged with an offense against any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance of the city shall be informed by summons in writing served on him of the nature and cause of the accusation; shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his behalf; shall have a speedy trial; shall be confronted with the witnesses against him; and shall have the privilege of cross-examination as in the superior courts of this state. The same rules as to examination of witnesses and the evidence adduced as obtained in such court, as far as they are applicable to cases before the municipal court. The person accused shall have the privilege of defending himself, by counsel or by himself, or both, whichever shall seem proper to him. No one shall be condemned, fined or punished without a chance of being heard in his defense.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.7. - Form and execution of summons.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of court in all cases where complaint is made or information given of any violation of the laws or ordinances of the city, whether the accused is confined in jail or not, to issue a summons directed to the accused requiring him to appear in the municipal court to answer such charge, which summons shall set forth the offense and the time and place of trial, bear test in the name of the judge of the municipal court, be signed officially by the clerk and directed to the director or public safety or chief of police or any police officer of the city to be executed, which police officer shall execute the same by serving a copy on the accused or leaving it at his place of residence.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.8. - Witness—Subpoena.
Whenever the attendance of any witness may be required before the municipal court to establish any fact, the clerk of court shall issue a subpoena, directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial and the parties to the case, and bearing test in the name of the judge of the municipal court, which subpoena shall be served as other summons by any police officer.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.9. - Witness—Defaulting.
If any person, summoned as a witness under this chapter, shall fail, neglect or refuse to attend a trial or render at the time of sufficient excuse in the judgment of the court, the defaulting witness shall be liable to a penalty. If the case shall be continued on account of the witness's absence, the court may issue an attachment against such witness, requiring him to show cause on the day appointed for trial, why he should not be further dealt with for contempt. Any police officer, by virtue of such attachment, shall arrest and confine the person, so as to have him before the court at such time as may be appointed for further hearing of the original complaint.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.10. - Continuances.
Where the ends of justice require it, cases may be continued. All continuances shall be addressed to the sound legal discretion of the court under the rules governing the superior courts of this state.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.11. - Plea of guilty in absence of defendant.
Any person against whom any complaint is lodged or information given in the municipal court may file a plea of guilty under such regulations and upon such terms as the court may prescribe. If such person cannot attend the trial, the court may pass such order or sentence in the case as if the person were personally present.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.12. - Persons implicated to be tried.
If on the trial of any case before the municipal court, it appears that any other person besides the one on trial has violated a provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, he may then and there be tried, if present, unless the case is continued for legal cause.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.13. - Contempt of court.
Any person who, during a sitting of the municipal court, shall be guilty of contempt of court, or refuse to abide by any sentence or order of such court, shall be punished in accordance with the laws of Georgia.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.14. - Docket.
A docket shall be kept in the office of clerk of court on which shall appear the name of every defendant charged with a violation of this Code or any city ordinance, or of any offense over which the municipal court has jurisdiction. At the trial of all cases in the municipal court, the judge of the municipal court shall record opposite the statement of the case the punishment inflicted and the date; and the clerk of court shall enter, under the judge of the municipal court's sentence, the final disposition of the case, that is, whether the fine, if any, was collected and the date of such collection and when and to whom such amounts were turned over by the clerk of court.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.15. - Enforcement of penalties against corporations.
Whenever a corporation shall violate any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, a warrant shall issue against such corporation for violating such provision, and the clerk of court shall issue a copy of such warrant, which shall be served by the director of public safety or chief of police or any police officer of the city upon any officer of the corporation to be found in the city, or upon the agent, superintendent or person in charge of the business of the corporation in the city. The police officer serving such copy shall at the time notify the person upon whom such service is made of the time and place of trial; and shall make an entry of such service upon the warrant, showing the time of service and upon whom the service was made; and return the same to the municipal court, and docket the case, which case shall stand for trial in the order in which other cases against individuals for violation of ordinances of the city are tried. If, on the trial, the defendant corporation fails to appear, or appearing fails to plead, the judge of the municipal court shall cause to be entered a plea of not guilty, and trial shall proceed as though the defendant had appeared and pleaded. Upon conviction of any corporation, there shall be rendered judgment against it for the fine imposed by the Judge of the municipal court, together with all costs of prosecution, upon which judgment the clerk of court shall issue an execution against the defendant, which shall be levied and collected by the director of public safety or chief of police as tax executions in favor of the city are levied and collected.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
DIVISION II. - APPEARANCE BOND

Sec. 6.16. - Security; maximum amount.
Any person authorized to do so pursuant to law may take bond, with security or without security, at discretion, in a sum not exceeding $5,000.00 per violation or offense for the appearance of any person accused or suspected of being guilty of a violation of any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, or any offense over which the municipal court has jurisdiction, to stand to and abide by his trial before the municipal court; and also of witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced in such court.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.17. - Forfeiture for failure to appear; service of rule.
All bail taken under this chapter shall be special bail and the power of the security over the principal shall be the same as in special bail. Upon the failure to appear of any principal, in any bond or recognizance given by a person charged with a violation of any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the city, or of any offense over which the municipal court has jurisdiction, or by a witness to appear and testify, the judge of the municipal court shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on such bond to show cause on any day therein name, not to be less than ten days from the passage of such rule, why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond. A copy of such rule shall be served upon the principal of the sureties, by any officer or member of the police force, if found in the city, at least five days before the time therein set for hearing the same.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.18. - Judgment.
If no sufficient cause is shown, the judge of the municipal court shall proceed to enter judgment against such principal and sureties for the amount of the bond forfeited as provided in section 6.17. The secretary shall issue execution for the amount of such judgment and place the same in the hands of the director of public safety or chief of police, who shall proceed to collect the same by levy and sale as in case of tax executions.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.19. - Surrender of principal.
Any surety upon a bail bond of any person charged with a violation of a provision of this Code or a city ordinance, or of any offense over which the municipal court has jurisdiction, may surrender his principal at any time to the director of public safety or chief of police, who shall confine such principal, until discharged by order of the judge of the municipal court, or other proper officer, or by giving other and good security. The delivery of the principal as provided in this section shall discharge the sureties of all further liability upon such bond; provided, that delivery shall be before any judgment of forfeiture upon the bond shall have been entered.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
Sec. 6.20. - General penalty; continuing violation; adjudging fines and imprisonments.
(a)
Whenever in this Code any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months unless a general law imposes a greater punishment for any offense tried in this court or any combination of such punishments, in the discretion of the judge of the municipal court or any officer trying the offender. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in subsection (a) of this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the city, abated as provided by law, and each day that such condition shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
[(c)]
Any prior provisions on the Charter or ordinances in conflict herewith shall be rescinded upon the within provision being passed into law.
(Ord. of 12-11-2001)
ARTICLE VII. - SEVERABILITY

Sec. 7.1. - Severability.
Be it further enacted, that in the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of so full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof. The general assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
ARTICLE VIII. - REPEALER

Sec. 8.1. - Repealer.
Be it further enacted, that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
