ARTICLE V. - WINE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-182. - Definitions.
Unless the context demands otherwise, the words and terms used in this article shall have the same definition and meaning as provided by state law. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business location means the location or proposed location of a retail wine outlet.
Farm winery means the definition stated in O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1(a)(1), as it is currently or is hereafter amended. Per O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1(a)(1), the term "farm winery" currently means a winery which makes at least 40 percent of its annual production from agricultural produce grown in the state where the winery is located and:
(1)
Is located on premises, a substantial portion of which is used for agricultural purposes, including the cultivation of grapes, berries, or fruits to be utilized in the manufacture or production of wine by the winery; or
(2)
Is owned and operated by persons who are engaged in the production of a substantial portion of the agricultural produce used in its annual production.
For purposes of this definition, the commissioner shall determine what is a substantial portion of such winery premises or agricultural produce.
Outlet means a store for the retail sale of wine.
Wine tasting room means the definition stated in O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1(a)(3), as it is currently or is hereafter amended. Per O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1(a)(3), the term "wine tasting room" currently means an outlet for the promotion of a farm winery's wine by providing samples of such wine to the public and for the sale of such wine at retail for consumption on the premises and for sale in closed packages for consumption off the premises. Samples of wine can be given free of charge or for a fee.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-211))
Secs. 4-183—4-202. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 4-203. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, store, or offer to sell wine at wholesale or retail within the corporate limits of the city without having the appropriate license for such sale, or to carry on such activity in violation of the terms of such license or this chapter.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-236))
State Law reference— Local wine license, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40.
Sec. 4-204. - Separate license for each outlet; transfer; surrender.
(a)
A separate license shall be required for each wine outlet, and a separate application shall be made for each outlet.
(b)
Licenses under this division shall be transferable only upon prior approval by the city clerk and the police chief and upon payment of a transfer fee in an amount as established by the mayor and city council from time to time.
(c)
Immediately upon the sale or closing of an outlet, it shall be the duty of the licensee to surrender his license to the city council.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-237))
Sec. 4-205. - Classification; fees.
(a)
Type of licenses. Licenses under this division shall be classified as follows:
(1)
Retail package. Retail wine package store, which shall permit only the sale of wine in packages at retail.
(2)
Wholesale. Wholesale wine distributor, which shall permit only the sale of wine at wholesale.
(3)
Farm winery. See section 4-182.
(b)
Fee established. The amount of the license fee for each class shall be as set forth in the license fee schedule of the city as kept and maintained by the city clerk.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-238))
Sec. 4-206. - Application and qualification.
(a)
An application for a retail package wine license shall be the same as, and in accordance with, the requirements applicable to the sale of malt beverages by the package at retail, and all provisions of this chapter pertaining to the application and qualification for a retail package license, including sections 4-89 through 4-94 and 4-97, shall be enforced in the sale of wine.
(b)
All regulations controlling the retail sale of malt beverages by the package shall also be applicable to the retail sale of wine by the package as if fully set out as separate provisions in this article.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-239))
Sec. 4-207. - Renewal, suspension, revocation, and monetary sanction.
(a)
Renewal. The provisions set forth in sections 4-95 through 4-96 shall apply to the renewal, suspension, and revocation of licenses under this article.
(b)
Summary action. There shall be no summary seizure of licenses under this division, unless there exists in the city a state of emergency duly declared; after any such seizure, a hearing shall be held as soon as practicable.
(c)
Action by city council. The city council shall have full power and authority to suspend, refuse to renew, place on probation, or revoke a license to sell wine, and to impose a monetary sanction not to exceed $2,000.00 under the conditions set forth in this section. Before taking any such action except suspending a license for failure to pay an imposed monetary sanction when due, the city council shall conduct a hearing, at least five days' notice of which hearing shall have been given to the affected licensee. Sufficient grounds for the suspension, refusal to renew, probation, revocation of a license, or imposition of a monetary sanction include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
A licensee has failed to open a business within six months after approval of the license.
(2)
A licensee has ceased to operate the business for a period of three consecutive months.
(3)
A licensee, or such licensee's employee or agent, has sold alcoholic beverages during a period of suspension.
(4)
A licensee gave false or misleading information in the original application or renewal process.
(5)
A licensee has failed to pay any fee, license fee, or other amount of money due to the city under this chapter or any other city licensing ordinance.
(6)
A licensee has failed to maintain any and all of the general qualifications applicable to the initial issuance of a license as set forth in this article.
(7)
A licensee, or such licensee's employee or agent, has served or sold any alcoholic beverage to any person that the licensee or the licensee's employee or agent, knew or should have known to be in a state of intoxication.
(8)
A licensee, or such licensee's employee or agent, has served or sold any alcoholic beverage to any person under the age of legal consumption in the state.
(9)
A licensee, or such licensee's employee or agent, has violated any other law, ordinance, or regulation governing the operation of an establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages or which is reasonably related to the operation of such establishment.
(10)
A licensee, or such licensee's employee or agent, has violated any other section of this chapter.
(11)
A licensee, or such licensee's employee or agent, has been convicted or pled guilty or no contest to any violation of its license to sell or distribute alcoholic beverages issued by the state department of revenue, the city, the county and/or the county sheriff's office.
(12)
A licensee has failed to satisfy the criteria for obtaining a license to sell wine.
(13)
A licensee, or such licensee's employee or agent, has violated any federal, state, or local laws or ordinances relating to the use and sale of drugs and alcoholic beverages.
(14)
When the continued operation of the licensed business is detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the public.
(d)
Suspension. The failure of a licensee to pay when due any monetary sanction assessed pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall result in the immediate suspension of all alcohol licenses issued by the city to such licensee. A suspension under this subsection shall continue until all monetary sanctions and other sums due the city by the licensee are paid in full.
(Ord. of 6-25-2019, § 1(4-240))
Secs. 4-208—4-237. - Reserved.
