Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.; requirements for publication of code, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; municipal corporation defined, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Cave Spring, Georgia," and may be cited as the "Cave Spring Code," or the "city Code."
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Code, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Generally. The ordinary definition shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter. In all interpretations the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the perceived issue or problem involved and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
City. The term "city" means the City of Cave Spring, Georgia.
City council, council. The term "city council" or "council" means the city council of the City of Cave Spring, Georgia. The city council consists of the five councilmembers.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of the City of Cave Spring, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted. If the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday, or Tuesday, if Monday is a legal holiday, to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following business day to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, an intermediate Saturday, Sunday and legal holiday shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided however, in appropriate cases, the terms "and" and "or" may be interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either … or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
Councilmember. The term "councilmember" means the individual members of the city council and applies to the male or female gender. The mayor is not a member of the council.
County. The term "county" means Floyd County, Georgia, as applicable to the issue under consideration.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a city officer or city employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates, or another, to perform the required act.
Department, office, agency. The name or title of any department, office, or agency, unless specifically stated otherwise, shall be read as though the words "of the City of Cave Spring, Georgia," were added thereto.
Fire department. The term "fire department" shall first refer to the city fire department, then to the county fire department if it provides services to the city.
Following. The term "following" means next after.
Gender. Words of one gender include all other genders.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Judge. The term "judge" means the municipal court judge.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the City of Cave Spring, Georgia.
Mayor and city council. The term "mayor and city council" means the governing authority of the city.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. The singular and plural number includes the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation.
O.C.G.A., state acts. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended. A reference to a state act, whether by year and act number, year, act number and page, year and page or short title is a reference to such act as amended.
Officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies. Whenever reference is made to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies by title only, the reference refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the city.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, partner in a partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
Person. The term "person" means and includes any association, club, society, firm, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means and includes every species of property, except real property.
Police. The term "police" means the police department or police chief of the county or of the city, whichever is serving as the police force for the city.
Preceding. The term "preceding" means next before.
Property. The term "property" means and includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means and includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and fixtures permanently attached to the land.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
Signature orsubscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" means the written or electronic attachment of the identifying mark of a person and includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street orroad. The term "street" or "road" means and includes any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct and any other public highway in the city, including, but not limited to, the paved or improved surfaces thereof.
Tenant oroccupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, means and includes any person holding a written or oral lease of or who occupies the whole or a part of a building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense mean and include the future, as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" means seven days, generally running from Sunday through the following Saturday.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" means and includes printing and all numerals.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year, unless otherwise incorporated with a modifying term such as "fiscal year."
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; general statutory definition, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections, effect of history notes, references in Code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor, as any part of such sections nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, cross references, and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Effective date of ordinances; effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
Ordinances which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time take effect immediately after their passage, without reference to their publication.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances adopted subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of these subsequent ordinances or resolutions until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending those provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section ___ of The Code of the City of Cave Spring, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of the City of Cave Spring, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or chapter, article, division or subdivision, as appropriate) to be numbered ___, that reads as follows: …." The new material may then be set out in full as desired.
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances or resolutions and parts of ordinances or resolutions included in the supplemental, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinances inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying, or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful or an offense by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
The term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or any combination thereof.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense. Likewise, with respect to multiple violations, as defined herein, each separate violation constitutes a separate offense.
(d)
All fines shall be paid into the city treasury.
(e)
Community service may be substituted for the fine with the rate of hourly work set to that of the federal minimum wage.
(f)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(g)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not preclude equitable such relief.
State Law reference— Maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.
Sec. 1-9. - Severability of Code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code.
State Law reference— Severability of state legislation, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-10. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, insofar as they are the same as those of ordinances and resolutions existing at the time of adoption of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-11. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-12. - Certain ordinances not affected by adoption of Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the validity of any of the following ordinances, resolutions, or portions of ordinances not in this Code, which ordinances or portions of ordinances continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if published at length in this Code:
(1)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
(2)
Authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement.
(3)
Granting any right or franchise.
(4)
Making or approving any appropriation or budget.
(5)
Providing for salaries or other employee benefits not codified in this Code.
(6)
Adopting or amending the comprehensive plan.
(7)
Levying or imposing any special assessment.
(8)
Dedicating, establishing naming, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing or vacating any street, sidewalk or alley.
(9)
Providing for or dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or subdivision.
(10)
Levying, imposing or otherwise relating to taxes not codified in this Code.
(11)
Rezoning property or otherwise pertaining to zoning.
(12)
An act by the council that is temporary, although general in effect.
(13)
An act by the council that is special, although permanent in effect.
(14)
An act by the council the purpose of which has been accomplished.
(15)
Intergovernmental agreements or mutual aid agreements.
(16)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city.
