ARTICLE I. - PURPOSE OF PLAN
The Georgia Municipal Employees Retirement System Plan ("Plan") is hereby amended and restated, generally effective January 1, 2007, except as otherwise provided herein, pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Trustees of the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System, adopted __________. The Plan is a governmental qualified defined benefit plan under Internal Revenue Code Sections 401(a) and 414(d) and is intended to be adopted by Employers in Georgia.
Plan provisions designed to comply with certain provisions of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 ("EGTRRA") are based on model amendments provided under Internal Revenue Service Notice 2001-57 and Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-5 and are intended as good faith compliance with the requirements of EGTRRA to be construed in accordance with EGTRRA and guidance issued thereunder effective for Plan Years beginning on and after January 1, 2002. Plan provisions designed to comply with certain provisions of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 ("PPA") and guidance issued thereunder are intended to comply with PPA provisions with 2007 or earlier effective dates pursuant to the 2006 Cumulative List under IRS Notice 2007-3. Plan provisions designed to comply with applicable provisions of Final Regulations under Internal Revenue Code Section 415 issued April 5, 2007, are effective as indicated herein. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, the Plan establishes the rights and obligations with respect to individuals who are Employees on and after such dates, as applicable, and to transactions under the Plan on and after such dates, as applicable. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, the rights and benefits, if any, of individuals who are not Employees on or after such dates, as applicable, shall be determined in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan that were in effect on the date that their employment terminated.
Any Municipal Corporation accepted by the Board as an Adopting Employer may become a party to the Plan as of the first day of any Plan Year, or such other date specified by the Adopting Employer, by delivering to the Administrator an appropriate Ordinance of the Governing Authority adopting the Plan. Any other Employer accepted by the Board as an Adopting Employer may become a party to the Plan as of the first day of any Plan Year, or such other date specified by the Adopting Employer, by delivering to the Administrator an appropriate Resolution of the Governing Authority adopting the Plan. With the consent of the Board, such organization shall become an Adopting Employer hereunder, as of the specified date, and shall be subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan as then in effect and thereafter amended.
The Plan document consists of this Master Plan document, the Adoption Agreement, and any Addendum of each Employer and any amendments to the Master Plan, the Adoption Agreement, and any Addendum. The Plan, generally effective as of the date set forth in the Adoption Agreement for each Employer, except as otherwise specifically provided herein, is established for the purpose of providing retirement and other benefits to Participants.
This Plan is intended to be a volume submitter plan, to be used with a completed Adoption Agreement.
