ARTICLE XV. - BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Section 15.01. - Definitions.
As used in this Article, "Act" refers to the Act of the General Assembly creating the Board of Trustees of the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System (O.C.G.A. ยง 47-5-1 et seq., a copy of which is included in the Appendix hereto), as amended.
Section 15.02. - Powers.
The powers of the Board of Trustees as fixed by the Act are hereby incorporated as part of the Plan. The Adopting Employer agrees that, in the administration of the Plan, it will comply with all rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Trustees under its authority as granted by the Act.
Section 15.03. - Composition and Election.
The composition of the Board of Trustees and the election of its members shall be as provided by the Act and as may be provided in the bylaws of the Board of Trustees.
Section 15.04. - Officers.
The election of officers by the Board of Trustees shall be conducted as may be prescribed by the Act and as may be provided in the bylaws of the Board of Trustees.
Section 15.05. - Notice of Elections.
The Board of Trustees shall provide through its bylaws for the giving of notice of elections, notice of any vacancy on the Board, the method or manner in which votes may be cast, and any other matter necessary or incident to the election of members of the Board. The Board may also provide for a proxy vote, and may determine how, when, and in what manner voting by proxy may be had in accordance with the Act and as may be provided in the bylaws of the Board of Trustees.
Section 15.06. - Voting.
Each Adopting Employer shall be entitled to vote in any election or other matter placed before the membership as provided in the bylaws of the Board of Trustees.
Section 15.07. - Voting Representative for the Adopting Employer.
The Pension Committee Secretary or other designated representative of the Pension Committee shall be the official representative of the Adopting Employer to cast the Adopting Employer's vote in any election of members of the Board of Trustees and in any other matters which the membership has the authority and responsibility for resolving, unless the Adopting Employer notifies GMEBS to the contrary in writing.
Section 15.08. - Qualified Public Accountant.
The Administrator may engage on behalf of all Participants an independent qualified public accountant to conduct such an examination of any financial statements of the Plan, and of other books and records of the Plan, as the qualified public accountant may deem necessary to enable him to form an opinion as to whether the financial statements and schedules required to be included in the annual report of the Plan are presented fairly in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applicable to a governmental plan, applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding Plan Year and who shall perform such other services for the Plan as the Administrator may require.
Section 15.09. - Fiduciary Insurance.
The Board of Trustees may purchase fiduciary liability insurance for any of its fiduciaries, or for itself, to cover liability or losses occurring by reason of the act or omission of a fiduciary.
