ARTICLE VII. - OPTIONAL FORMS OF RETIREMENT INCOME

Section 7.01. - Standard Benefit Payment Form; Other Payment Options.
A Participant may elect, or may revoke a previous election and make a new election, at any time prior to his effective Retirement Date, to have his Retirement benefit payable under the standard benefit payment option or under one of the other benefit payment options set forth in Section 7.03. The standard benefit payment option is a monthly retirement benefit payable to the Participant during his life time only. At the death of the Participant all payments will cease and no further benefits will be payable to the estate of the Participant or other persons. The standard benefit payment form is referred to in the Master Plan as Option A. The benefit shall be paid in accordance with and subject to the terms of the benefit payment option elected. Election of any option shall be made by the Participant in writing on the Applicable Form, and shall be subject to approval by GMEBS.
Section 7.02. - Designation of Post-Retirement Beneficiary.
If the Participant elects Option B or Option C (Joint and Survivor Options) or Option D (Period Certain and Life Option) in Section 7.03, he shall designate a Post-Retirement Beneficiary to receive a survivor benefit in accordance with and subject to the terms of such Option. Designation of a Post-Retirement Beneficiary may be revoked or changed by the Participant by submitting a new completed Retirement Application at any time prior to the Participant's effective Retirement date. Only the last such designation of a Post-Retirement Beneficiary shall have effect, and any new designation of a Post-Retirement Beneficiary shall invalidate, supersede, and revoke any prior designation.
Section 7.03. - Description of Options.
The amount of any optional benefit set forth below shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the amount of benefit that would otherwise be payable to the Participant under Section 6.01.
OPTION B: Joint and Survivor Option. A decreased retirement benefit which shall be payable during the lifetime of the Participant and, if his designated Post-Retirement Beneficiary should survive him, shall continue after his death during the lifetime of his Beneficiary in the same amount (100%) or in such smaller amount (75%, 50%, or 25%) as the Participant may designate. This option shall be known as Option B. The Participant's retirement benefit under Option B shall be calculated in accordance with Section 12.02(a)(1) or 12.02(a)(2), whichever is applicable.
OPTION C: Joint and Survivor Option with Pop-Up. A retirement benefit computed and paid in the same manner as OPTION B above, but with a further decrease in the retirement benefit to account for the pop-up benefit provided under this Option C. If the Participant elects Option C, then in the event that the Participant's Post-Retirement Beneficiary dies before the Participant and after Retirement benefit payments have commenced, and provided the Participant furnishes GMEBS with proper proof of the Beneficiary's death within one (1) year after such death, the requirement for a reduction in the Participant's monthly retirement benefit on account of his election of an optional form of benefit payment shall no longer apply, effective as of the first day of the month following the Post-Retirement Beneficiary's death. Effective with respect to monthly payments made on and after such date, the amount of the Participant's monthly retirement benefit shall be increased to equal the monthly amount that would have otherwise been payable to the Participant under Article VI, had the Participant not elected an optional form of benefit payment. However, if the Participant fails to furnish the Plan with proper proof of the Post-Retirement Beneficiary's death within the one (1) year period referred to above, then said increase shall not become effective until the first day of the month following the date such proof is submitted to GMEBS. If the Post-Retirement Beneficiary does not survive the Participant, all payments shall cease at the death of the Participant and no further benefits will accrue to his estate or to other persons.
OPTION D: Period Certain and Life Option. A decreased benefit payable monthly to the Participant during his lifetime and, in the event of his death within a period of specified years, either five (5), ten (10), fifteen (15), or twenty (20) years after his benefit commencement, the same monthly amount shall be payable for the balance of such period to the Post-Retirement Beneficiary designated by him. If the Post-Retirement Beneficiary does not survive the Participant, all payments shall cease at the death of the Participant and no further benefits will accrue to his estate or to other persons except as provided in Article VIII. This option shall be known as Option D. The Retirement benefit under Option D shall be calculated in accordance with Section 12.03.
OPTION E: Social Security Option. An increased Retirement benefit, determined as of the Participant's Early Retirement Date, payable to him during his lifetime until the Participant is eligible for reduced benefits under the Federal Social Security Act, and a decreased Retirement benefit payable thereafter for life in order to have a more level retirement income when such decreased retirement benefit is added to his primary benefits under the Federal Social Security Act. At the death of the Participant all payments will cease and no further benefits will accrue to the estate of the Participant or to other persons. This option shall be known as Option E. The Actuarial Equivalent factors to be applied in calculating benefits under Option E shall be those contained in Section 12.04(a) or 4(b), whichever is applicable.
Section 7.04. - Cancellation of Election.
The election by a Participant of any option in this Article VII shall be null and void if either the Participant or his designated Post-Retirement Beneficiary dies before the Participant's effective Retirement date.
Section 7.05. - Rule for Small Benefits.
(a)
Effective January 1, 2002, the present value of a Plan benefit shall be distributed in a cash single sum payment to the Participant, Terminated Participant, or Pre-Retirement Beneficiary, as applicable, if the benefit payable to the recipient does not exceed Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) on the date of distribution. The value of said Plan benefit shall be determined in accordance with Article XII.
(b)
Effective for distributions commencing on or after March 28, 2005, if a distribution to be made under subsection (a) is greater than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000), is an eligible rollover distribution, and the recipient of the distribution does not elect to have the distribution paid directly to an eligible retirement plan specified by the recipient in a direct rollover or does not elect to receive the distribution directly, the Administrator will pay the distribution in a direct rollover to an individual retirement plan designated by the Administrator.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b), effective on and after July 1, 2007, no distribution will be made under this Section unless and until the recipient of the distribution makes an election to either have the distribution paid directly to an eligible retirement plan specified by the recipient in a direct rollover or to receive the distribution directly in cash.
Section 7.06. - Distributions.
(a)
Distributions payable as of any date shall be made on or as soon as administratively feasible after that date.
(b)
In a contributory plan, interest shall be paid on any refund of employee contributions only as specified in the Adoption Agreement.
Section 7.07. - Compliance with Internal Revenue Section 401(a)(9).
All distributions shall be made in compliance with Article X.
