Chapter 7 - MUNICIPAL COURT[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State constitution reference—Effect of constitution on courts, Art. 6, § 10, Par. 1.
State Law reference— Corporate, police, recorders' and mayor's courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 7.01. - Creation.
There is established and continued in existence a court to be known as the "Municipal Court of the City of LaGrange" which shall have jurisdiction and authority over the violation of municipal ordinances and such other matters as may now or hereafter be made by general law, subject to the jurisdiction of municipal courts of Georgia and such other jurisdiction as may have been vested in the Recorder's Court of the City of LaGrange. The municipal court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and the city charter of the City of LaGrange and to subpoena witnesses, to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to try all offenses occurring within the territorial limits of the City of LaGrange as the same may now or hereafter exist, including but not limited to traffic cases and violations of the laws of Georgia which are now or hereafter vested within the jurisdiction of the municipal court, to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof. The presiding officer of such court shall be known as the municipal judge, and the court shall be convened at such time or times as designated by such municipal judge as may be necessary or appropriate to handle and conduct the business of the court.
(Ga. Laws 1990, Act No. 766, § 1)
Sec. 7.02. - Municipal judge; assistant judge.
(a)
A person shall not be qualified or eligible to serve as a municipal judge unless he shall be licensed to practice law in the State of Georgia, shall have attained the age of twenty-five (25) years, shall be a qualified voter of Troup County, Georgia, and shall have resided therein at least one (1) year immediately preceding his or her appointment and shall continue to be a resident thereof during the term of his or her office. At the first regular meeting in January of each year, the mayor and council shall appoint the municipal judge, and may also appoint an assistant municipal judge, each of whom shall serve for a term of one (1) year and until his or her respective successor is appointed and qualified. The mayor and council shall also be authorized to fill any vacancy or unexpired term in such offices and to fix the compensation of the municipal judge and the assistant municipal judge.
(b)
Before entering on the duties of their offices, the municipal judge and any assistant municipal judge shall each take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths that he or she will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office to the best of his or her ability without fear, favor, or partiality. This oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the mayor and council.
(c)
The assistant municipal judge shall conduct court and preside thereover when requested by or in the absence or disability of the municipal judge of said court and shall otherwise have the same power and responsibility as the municipal judge of said court.
(d)
Should the mayor and council choose not to appoint an assistant municipal judge pursuant to subsection (a) above, the municipal judge, with the consent of the mayor and council, may appoint one or more assistant municipal judges who shall conduct court and preside thereover when requested or in the absence or disability of the municipal judge and shall otherwise have the same power and responsibility as the municipal judge of said court. Any assistant municipal judge so appointed shall meet the qualifications of municipal judge as set forth herein. Such assistant municipal judge(s), if appointed by the municipal judge, shall be paid by the municipal judge for such service. In all instances, the mayor and council shall have the authority to remove any municipal judge or assistant municipal judge at their pleasure, with or without cause.
(Ga. Laws 1990, Act No. 766, § 1; Ord. No. 97-1, § 1, 1-14-97; Ord. No. 01-03, § 1, 2-27-01)
Sec. 7.03. - Jurisdiction.
The municipal judge shall have the power to impose fines for the violations of any law for which he or she has jurisdiction or of any ordinance of the City of LaGrange up to an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); to imprison offenders for a period of not more than six (6) months or sentence such offenders to labor on the roads and streets or other public works for the city for not more than six (6) months; and to impose any one (1) or more of these punishments if he or she shall find that the facts of the case justify such imposition. The municipal judge shall not have the authority to inflict a greater punishment for contempt than to impose a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60) days or any combination of the two (2) penalties. Such municipal judge shall have the authority of a magistrate in issuing warrants for offenses committed within the City of LaGrange, which warrants may be executed by any police officer of said city, and to hold committal hearings and commit offenders to jail or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearance at the next term of a court of competent jurisdiction to be held in said city. Except as may be otherwise specified, the municipal judge is vested with jurisdiction of the entire area within the corporate limits of the City of LaGrange as the same may nor or hereafter exist. The municipal court is specifically vested with jurisdiction and power within the corporate limits of the City of LaGrange granted by state laws generally to municipal courts and particularly such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances.
(Ga. Laws 1990, Act No. 766, § 1)
Sec. 7.04. - Appeals.
The right of certiorari or appeal to the superior court from the municipal court shall lie in same manner, to the same extent and pursuant to the same procedure as prescribed for certiorari or appeal from or to the various magistrate courts of the state.
(Ga. Laws 1990, Act No. 766, § 1)
Sec. 7.05. - Vacancy in office.
In the event of absence, sickness, or disqualification of the municipal judge and assistant municipal judge of the Municipal Court of the City of LaGrange, the municipal judge or, in his absence, the assistant municipal judge is authorized to name and designate a temporary judge of the Municipal Court of the City of LaGrange to hold and preside over such municipal court in the absence or disqualification of the municipal judge or assistant municipal judge. The authority of such temporary judge shall be either for a particular case or for a particular session of the municipal court and such temporary judge shall be paid by the municipal judge for such service.
(Ga. Laws 1990, Act No. 766, § 1)
Sec. 7.06. - Court costs.
In all cases in the Municipal Court of the City of LaGrange, the costs incurred and allowed therein shall be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing costs in the magistrate courts and such other laws applicable thereto.
(Ga. Laws 1990, Act No. 766, § 1)
Sec. 7.07. - Rules for the courts.
The municipal judge shall have the power and authority to make such reasonable rules and regulations which may be necessary and appropriate to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of the court subject, however, to the right of the mayor and council to review and approve such rules and regulations in the event they determine such review to be necessary and appropriate. The rules of evidence applicable to the superior courts of the State of Georgia shall apply to the Municipal Court of the City of LaGrange.
(Ga. Laws 1990, Act No. 766, § 1)
