Chapter 1 - INCORPORATION AND POWERS
Article I - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Sec. 1.10. - Incorporation.
The City of LaGrange, Georgia, in the County of Troup, and the inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the City of LaGrange, Georgia. Under the [sic] name, said city shall continue to be vested with all of the property and rights of property which now belong to the corporation; shall have perpetual succession; may sue and be sued; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold such property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it, and from time to time may hold or invest, sell or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at will; and may exercise in conformity with this charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
State Law reference— Local government, O.C.G.A. Title 36.
Sec. 1.11. - City boundaries.
The boundaries of the City of LaGrange shall be as described and set forth in Appendix One hereto.
Article II - POWERS OF THE CITY

Sec. 1.20. - Corporate powers.
The government of the City of LaGrange is hereby vested with all powers which municipal corporations are now, or may hereafter be, authorized or required to exercise under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia; with all powers which the City of LaGrange was heretofore authorized to exercise on the effective date of this charter under any general or local law, or both, of the General Assembly of Georgia, or under any general or local constitutional provision or amendment, or both, of the State of Georgia. In addition thereto, the government of the City of LaGrange, Georgia, shall exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the government of the city and of its inhabitants, and all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein.
Sec. 1.21. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provisions, such powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance of the mayor and council and as provided by the pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
State Law reference— Municipal powers, O.C.G.A. Title 36, Ch. 34 et seq.
Sec. 1.22. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations now in force in the city, nor [not] inconsistent with this charter, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the mayor and council.
State Law reference— Authority of city to adopt ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.
