Chapter 9 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 9.10. - Initial election of mayor and council.
The mayor and members of council in office on the date of adoption of this act shall serve out the term for which they were elected.
At the next regular municipal election to be held in the City of LaGrange in 1968, there shall be elected three (3) members of council for terms of three (3) years. At the regular municipal election to be held in the City of LaGrange in 1969, there shall be elected a mayor and three (3) members of council for terms of four (4) years. Thereafter, the mayor and council shall be elected for terms of four (4) years as herein provided.
Editor's note— The charter was approved on March 8, 1968.
Sec. 9.11. - Official bonds.
The officers and employees of the City of LaGrange, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the mayor and council may from time to time require.
Sec. 9.12. - Amending charter.
Except in the particulars hereinbefore specifically provided for, the terms and provisions of this charter may be hereinafter [sic] modified, rescinded, changed, or amended by:
(a)
The General Assembly of Georgia.
(b)
Any procedure authorized by the laws of Georgia as the same may now or hereafter exist.
State Law reference— Amendment of charters by ordinance or by petition and referendum, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.
Sec. 9.13. - Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations.
Existing ordinances and resolutions of the City of LaGrange not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall continue in effect until they have been repealed, modified or amended by the mayor and council. Existing rules and regulations of departments or agencies of the City of LaGrange not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter shall continue into effect until they have been repealed, modified or amended.
Sec. 9.14. - General laws may be used.
The mayor and council, in its discretion, may elect to use the provision of any general laws of the state in addition to or instead of the provision of this charter.
Sec. 9.15. - Section captions.
The captions to the several sections of this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
Sec. 9.16. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part or parts held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independently of each other.
Sec. 9.17. - Effective date.
This charter shall be effective on and after January 1, 1969.
Sec. 9.18. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
