Chapter 4 - FINANCE AND FISCAL
Article I - TAXATION AND CITY SERVICE CHARGES

Sec. 4.10. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January first in each year[,] shall be subject to the property tax levied by the city. The mayor and council by ordinance may elect to use the values established by the county tax assessors or may provide for an independent city assessment as provided by Georgia law.
State Law reference— Taxable property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-3; assessment of tangible property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7 et seq.; municipal taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq.
Sec. 4.11. - Listing, assessing and collection of taxes.
(a)
The mayor and council shall have the authority to prescribe by ordinance the manner in which ad valorem taxes on real and personal property within the corporate limits of the City of LaGrange shall be listed, assessed and collected.
(b)
In the event an independent city assessment is made, a board of tax appeals consisting of three (3) persons shall be appointed by the mayor and council for such terms and compensation as shall be fixed by ordinance. Said board of tax appeals shall hear appeals from any person dissatisfied with the action of the city tax assessor in preparing or revising a tax return. The mayor and council shall prescribe by ordinance the time and manner of filing such appeals and the payment of costs by appellant, the duties and powers of the board of tax appeals, and the rules and regulations under which said board shall carry out its responsibilities.
(c)
The board of tax appeals shall have authority to issue subpoenas, administer oaths, and compel the production of records and documents to the same extent as that authority is now vested in the Civil and Criminal Court of Troup County and the authority hereby conferred shall be enforced as similar authority is enforced by said court.
(d)
The board of tax appeals shall render a judgment in writing on the issue presented by such appeal, which judgment shall be rendered within one (1) week of the time said appeal was tried. In the event there is a disagreement among the members of the board of tax appeals, the decision of two (2) members of the board shall constitute a judgment of the board. The judgment shall be filed immediately with the assistant city manager who shall immediately mail a copy thereof to the property owner by certified United States mail with return receipt requested.
(e)
Either the mayor and council or the tax-payer shall have the right to appeal from any judgment rendered by the board of tax appeals to the Superior Court of Troup County, which said appeal shall be filed in the superior court within twenty (20) days after the rendition of the judgment of the board of tax appeals, shall be in the same form, and shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior courts from the court of ordinary.
(f)
The authority and duties of the city tax assessor shall be as provided by ordinance of the mayor and council. The city tax assessor shall meet with and assist the board of tax appeals. The city tax assessor shall make a final return of the assessments made by him to the city manager at such times as the city manager shall prescribe.
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 1, 12-13-16)
Editor's note— The name of the Civil and Criminal Court of Troup County has been changed to "State Court of Troup County." See Ga. Laws 1970, p. 679 and O.C.G.A. § 15-7-1 et seq. The court of ordinary is now the probate court. See O.C.G.A. § 15-9-1 et seq.
State Law reference— Civil practice, O.C.G.A. Title 9; uniform property tax administration and equalization, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-260 et seq.; county board of equalization, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-311.
Sec. 4.12. - Tax levy.
The mayor and council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax not to exceed seventeen and one-half (17.5) mills on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the City of LaGrange for the purpose of raising revenue to pay the cost of public education, ordinary current expenses and for any other purpose now or hereafter authorized by the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, but not including principal and interest on general obligation bonds.
State constitution reference—Municipal taxation power, Art. 9, § 4, Par. 1.
State Law reference— Exemption of personalty, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-42.
Sec. 4.13. - Tax due dates and tax bills.
The mayor and council shall provide by ordinance when the taxes of the city shall fall due and in what length of time said taxes shall be paid. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the payment of taxes due to the city in installments, or in one (1) lump sum, and when and how and upon what terms such taxes shall be due and payable, as well as to authorize the payment of taxes prior to the time when due. The terms and methods of payment and collection of city taxes shall be in such manner as the mayor and council may determine by ordinance.
State Law reference— Time for making tax returns, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-18; payment of taxes in installments, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-23.
Sec. 4.14. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by distress warrants issued by the mayor for the sale of goods and chattels to be executed by any police officer of the city under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from a justice of the peace, or by the city attorney acting in accordance with general laws providing for the collection of delinquent city or county taxes, or by any of the foregoing methods, and by the use of any available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property upon which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of the first day of January of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those of the federal, state or county taxes.
Editor's note— Justice of the peace courts have become magistrate courts. See Ga. Const. Art. 6, § 10, Par. 1 and O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.
State Law reference— Liens for taxes, priority, O.C.G.A. § 48-2-56; priority of taxes over other claims, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-28; sale of property for taxes due municipality, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359.
Sec. 4.15. - Licenses and occupational taxes.
The mayor and council by ordinance shall have full power to levy such license and specific or occupational taxes upon the residents of the City of LaGrange, both individual and corporate, and on all those who transact or offer to transact business therein, or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the mayor and council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience, or advantage of the city; to classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure licenses; to compel the payment of such licenses by execution or any other lawful manner; and to make laws and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof.
State constitution reference—Power of city to collect fees, Art. 9, § 4, Par. 1.
State Law reference— Professions and businesses, O.C.G.A. Title 43.
Sec. 4.16. - Sewer service charges.
The mayor and council by ordinance shall have the right, power and authority to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer services rendered both within and without the corporate limits of the City of LaGrange to provide for the cost and expense of providing for the collection and disposal of sewage through the sewerage facilities of said city. If unpaid, said sewer service charge shall constitute a lien against any property or person served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
State constitution reference—Power of city to provide storm water and sewage collection and disposal systems, Art. 9, § 2, Par. 3.
State Law reference— Sewer service charges, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.
Sec. 4.17. - Sanitary and health service charge.
The mayor and council shall have authority by ordinance to provide for, to enforce, to levy and to collect the cost of sanitary and health services necessary in the operation of the city, from all individuals, firms and corporations residing in or doing business in said city benefiting from such service. Such authority shall include the power to assess, levy and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount or amounts, and based upon and in accordance with such classifications of property and/or sanitary service or services provided, as may be fixed by ordinance. Said sanitary taxes and the assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect to which said taxes are so assessed, and the owner or owners thereof, superior to all other liens except liens for county and city property taxes, and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
State constitution reference—Power of city to provide solid waste collection and disposal and public health facilities and services, Art. 9, § 2, Par. 3.
Sec. 4.18. - Special assessments.
The mayor and council shall have power and authority to assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, draining, or improving any public way, sewers, or utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, and to provide a method of payment of such assessments and penalties for nonpayment, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided herein or by ordinance for city property taxes.
State Law reference— Street improvements, assessments, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.
Article II - BORROWING

Sec. 4.20. - General obligation bonds.
The mayor and council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter and the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
State Law reference— Municipal bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-38-1 et seq.; local bonds generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq.
Sec. 4.21. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the mayor and council as now or hereafter provided by the laws of the State of Georgia.
State Law reference— Revenue Bond Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60.
Article III - ACCOUNTING AND BUDGETING

Sec. 4.30. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July of each year and shall end on the thirtieth day of June next following. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department or institution, agency and activity of the government, unless otherwise provided by state and [sic] federal law.
State constitution reference—Fiscal year of the state, Art. 3, § 9, Par. 2.
State Law reference— "Fiscal year" defined, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-2; establishment of local fiscal year, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 4.31. - Preparation of budgets.
The mayor and council shall provide by ordinance the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating and a capital improvement budget.
State Law reference— Budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.
Sec. 4.32. - Scope of annual operating budget.
(a)
The annual operating budget shall contain with respect to each of the operating funds of the government of the City of LaGrange to which they are applicable:
(1)
An estimate of the unencumbered fund balance or deficit at the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, and the amount of any reserve for designated purposes or activities includable in the operating budget.
(2)
A reasonable estimate of revenues to be received during the ensuing year, classified according to source; provided, however, the estimated revenues from current and from delinquent property taxes shall not exceed the percentage collected of the total receivable from each such source during the last completed fiscal year, or the current fiscal year whichever is greater.
(3)
Proposed expenditures detailed by each department, board, commission, office, agency and activity in accordance with an established classification of accounts, including those capital outlays which are to be financed from the revenues of the ensuing year, and including all debt service requirements in full for such fiscal year payable from such fund.
(4)
Work programs and performance data in justification of proposed expenditures for each department, board, commission, office or agency.
(5)
Such other information as may be considered necessary or desirable or requested by the mayor and council.
(b)
In no event shall the total proposed expenditures from any fund exceed the total anticipated revenues plus the estimated unappropriated surplus, or fund balance, and applicable reserves and less any estimated deficit at the end of the current fiscal year.
State Law reference— Form of budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-6.
Sec. 4.33. - Submission of budget to mayor and council.
On or before a date fixed by the mayor and council but not later than sixty (60) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall submit to the mayor and council a proposed budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the city manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget and such other comments and information as he may deem pertinent. A sufficient number of copies of the city manager's message shall be reproduced to furnish a copy to any person desiring one, and a copy of the budget in full shall be filed with the council and furnished to the mayor and each council member. A summary of the budget shall be published in one (1) or more daily newspapers of general circulation within the City of LaGrange. The operating budget and the capital improvements budget hereinafter provided for, the budget message and all supporting schedules shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 1, 12-13-16; Ord. No. 18-05, § 7, 7-10-18)
State Law reference— Submission of budget to governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5; inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.
Sec. 4.34. - Action by mayor and council on budget.
(a)
The mayor and council may amend the operating budget proposed by the city manager; except, that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year[,] and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves and revenues, constituting the fund availability of such fund.
(b)
The mayor and council shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the fifteenth day of June each year. If the mayor and council fail to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for current operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the mayor and council adopt a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriation ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by source and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose or activity as set out in the budget document.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit, purpose or activity shall constitute the annual appropriation for such item, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriation, or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable, except as provided in section 4.36 of this charter.
State Law reference— Adoption of budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-6.
Sec. 4.35. - Property tax levies.
As the next order of business following the adoption of the operating budget, the mayor and council shall levy by ordinance an annual tax on all real and personal property within the City of LaGrange which is subject to ad valorem tax. The tax rate set by such ordinance shall be such that [a] reasonable estimate of [the] revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated.
State Law reference— Taxable property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-3; exemption of personalty, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-42.
Sec. 4.36. - Additional appropriations.
The mayor and council may by ordinance make supplemental appropriations from revenues in excess of those estimated in the budget or make revisions in the operating budget at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose.
Sec. 4.37. - Lapse of appropriations.
All unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget shall lapse at the end of the fiscal year.
Sec. 4.38. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before a date fixed by the mayor and council but not later than sixty (60) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall submit to the mayor and council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The mayor and council shall have power to accept with or without amendments or reject the proposed programs and proposed means of financing.
(b)
The mayor and council shall adopt the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the fifteenth day of June of each year. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided the city manager may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by his recommendations thereon. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by the mayor and council.
Article IV - PROCUREMENT AND PROPERTY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 4.40. - Contracting procedures.
The mayor and council shall prescribe by ordinance such rules and regulations as may be necessary to govern the authorization and execution of contracts which shall bind the City of LaGrange. All contracts, and all ordinances or resolutions making contracts or authorizing the same, shall be drawn by the city attorney or shall be submitted to him before authorization by the mayor and council. Except where otherwise provided by law or by ordinance of the council, all contracts of the city shall be signed by the mayor or mayor pro tem or by some person designated by the mayor and council, and shall be authenticated by the city manager, assistant city manager, city clerk or such other person as may be designated by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 07-13, § 1, 4-24-07; Ord. No. 16-11, § 3, 12-13-16; Ord. No. 18-05, § 8, 7-10-18)
State constitution reference—Intergovernmental contracts, Art. 9, § 3, Par. 1.
State Law reference— Power of city to contract with governmental units and utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2.
Sec. 4.41. - Centralized purchasing; competitive bidding.
The mayor and council shall by ordinance set forth procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the City of LaGrange.
State Law reference— Local purchases through state, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.
Sec. 4.42. - Sale and disposition of property.
(a)
The mayor and council are hereby authorized to sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the City of LaGrange for governmental or other purposes, except as otherwise limited by law; provided, however, no public utility owned or operated by the City of LaGrange shall be sold by the mayor and council unless such sale shall first be approved by a majority vote of the electors of the City of LaGrange voting in a special election called and held for that purpose.
(b)
The mayor and council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the city manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the mayor and council may authorize the execution and deliverance in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
(d)
The mayor and council are hereby authorized to rent or lease real or personal property owned or held by the city, either in its proprietary or governmental capacity, for adequate consideration and upon such terms and conditions as are deemed by the governing authority to be in the best interests of the city.
(Ord. No. 11-14, § 1, 10-11-11)
State Law reference— Sale of municipal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6 et seq.
