ARTICLE IV. - WHOLESALERS

Sec. 4-341. - Generally.
(a)
Any person desiring to sell, at wholesale, any alcoholic beverage in city shall make application to the finance department and obtain a license to do so, which application shall be in writing on the prescribed forms and pay a fee in the amount established by action of the city council, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
No person who has any direct financial interest in a license for the retail sale of distilled spirits shall be allowed to have any interest or ownership in any wholesale distilled spirit license.
(c)
No retailer shall purchase any alcoholic beverage from any person other than a wholesaler licensed under this article. No wholesaler shall sell any distilled spirits to any person other than a retailer licensed under this chapter.
(d)
No alcoholic beverage shall be delivered to any retail sales outlet in the city except by a duly licensed wholesaler. The name of the wholesale distributor shall be clearly marked on the delivery vehicle.
(Ord. No. O2018-05-17, § 4.231, 5-29-2018)
Sec. 4-342. - Excise tax imposed; bond required.
(a)
There is imposed an excise tax upon all alcoholic beverages purchased by persons holding a retail package license or a consumption-on-the-premises license at a rate established by action of the city council, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
The excise tax shall be collected by all wholesale dealers selling alcoholic beverages to persons holding retail licenses and shall be paid by the wholesale dealers to the finance department by the tenth of each month, based upon the units of alcohol sold during the previous month. The wholesale dealer shall keep true and correct records of all sales and shipments. The monthly remittance shall be accompanied by a sworn statement showing, but not limited to, the type and volume sold to each retail licensee on a form or in a format as approved by the finance department.
(c)
Each wholesale dealer, prior to commencement of business operation in the city, shall post a performance bond with the finance department equal to 1½ times the estimated highest monthly payment made in a calendar year of the excise tax based on sales collected by the wholesale dealer from the retailers to secure the payments for the tax imposed herein. These bonds shall be secured by cash which shall bear no interest, or a surety bond executed by a surety company licensed to do business in this state and approved by the finance department.
(d)
A wholesaler may be excused from posting the performance bond after demonstrating full and satisfactory compliance with the provisions required hereunder for a period of 12 months subsequent to the commencement of business operations within the city. Continued exemption from the requirement of posting the performance bond shall be conditioned upon continued compliance with the terms of this article and the payment of all sums as required by the provisions of this section.
(e)
Any person who fails to pay any tax to the city or any amount of tax required to be collected and paid to the city under this article within the time required shall pay a late payment penalty, in addition to the tax or amount of tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax or any portion thereof. All interest assessed under this provision shall be at an annual rate of three percent per annum unless a higher rate is set by resolution by the city council as authorized by law. Penalties shall be assessed, in addition to specified interest charges, at the rate of ten percent of the amount due for failure to file, negligence or disregard of rules or regulations; an additional penalty of 25 percent of the amount due shall be assessed for any fraud or intent to evade.
(Ord. No. O2018-05-17, § 4.232, 5-29-2018; Ord. No. O2019-05-18, § 4-232, 5-28-2019)
Sec. 4-343. - Audit.
The city shall have the right to audit each wholesale dealer licensed to do business in the city.
(Ord. No. O2018-05-17, § 4.233, 5-29-2018)
Sec. 4-344. - Hours of sale.
Wholesalers shall not engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages except between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
(Ord. No. O2018-05-17, § 4.234, 5-29-2018)
Secs. 4-345—4-360. - Reserved.
