ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Class B coin operated amusement machines.
(a)
Class B coin operated amusement machine means a bona fide coin operated amusement machine that rewards a successful player with any combination of the following items:
(1)
Merchandise limited to noncash merchandise, prizes, toys, gift certificates, or novelties, each of which has a wholesale value of not more than $5.00 received for a single play of the game or device.
(2)
Points, tokens, vouchers, tickets, or other evidence of winnings which may be exchanged for free replays or rewards set forth in subsection (1) above.
(b)
Subject to the restrictions set forth in subsections (d) and (e), a restaurant, cafe, or dining facility which provides table seating for no less than 40 persons may apply to the city for a special business permit allowing the establishment to provide more than nine Class B coin operated amusement machines.
(c)
Establishments not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (b) may not provide more than nine Class B coin operated amusement machines.
(d)
No establishment shall derive more than 50 percent of such establishments monthly gross retail receipts for the establishment from Class B coin operated amusement machines. Gross retail receipts means the total revenue derived by an establishment at the location on the sale of goods and services but shall not include revenue from the sale of goods or services for which the business will receive only a commission. Revenue from the sale of goods and services at wholesale shall not be included.
(e)
Class B bona fide coin operated amusement machines shall meet the following criteria: (i) the machine rewards the player or players with tickets, tokens, or other non-cash representations of value redeemable for merchandise prizes; (ii) the outcome of the game involves some skill in its operation; (iii) the award of tickets, tokens or other non-cash representations of value is based solely on the players achieving the object of the game or player's score; (iv) only merchandise prizes are awarded; (v) the average wholesale value of the prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or tokens for a single play of the machine does not exceed $5.00; and (vi) the redemption value of each ticket, token or other non-cash representation of value that may be accumulated by a player or players to redeem prizes of greater value does not exceed the cost of a single play of the machine.
(f)
Applications for a special business permit under this section shall be filed with the city department of finance and administration and considered by the city council at a meeting no sooner than 30 days after the filing of such application.
(g)
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to supersede any restrictions on coin operated machines in the City of Fayetteville's Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 0-13-10, art. 1, 10-21-10)
Secs. 22-2—22-25. - Reserved.
