ARTICLE II. - PAWNSHOPS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— License fee for pawnbrokers, ch. 46, art. III.
State Law reference— O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 22-26. - Definitions.
Applicant means an individual registering a business authorized herein.
Application means a form supplied by the city for the purpose of registering a business authorized herein.
Business means the business of operating or owning a pawnshop or pawnbroker business.
Church means a permanent building and grounds where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
City means City of Fayetteville, Georgia.
Closely held corporation means a corporation not traded or listed on any stock exchange and which has fewer than 25 shareholders.
Convicted or conviction shall include a plea of nolo contendere.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2 but not a form IRS 1099.
Goods. Wherever used herein, the word "goods" shall carry its normal meaning, and further, it should be construed in the broadest sense allowable and should include all forms of the personal property.
Individual means a natural person.
Interest in a business means an interest held by an owner or co-owner of a registered business; by a partner of a general or limited partnership which owns or co-owns a registered business; a stockholder of five percent or more shares in any closely held corporation which owns or co-owns a registered business; an owner, co-owner, lessor, sublessor, partner in a partnership, stockholder of five percent or more stock of a closely held corporation, or stockholder of 50 percent or more of any corporation owning or leasing any real estate upon which is located a registered business; or anyone sharing in the income or corpus of any trust or estate having such an interest; or a person having subscriptions, options, and/or warranty for purchase of five percent or more of a closely held corporation's stock or 50 percent or more of any corporation's stock.
Owner means a person having an interest in a license or in a business holding a license, including a stockholder.
Pawnbroker means any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, including vehicles, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufactures or licensed dealers as a part or in conjunction with the business activities described in this paragraph.
Pawnshop. See Pawnbroker.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business, trust, receiver, fiduciary or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic or political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasi-public, or any entity.
Private residence means a house, dwelling, condominium, duplex, a boarding or rooming house, apartment building.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-1, 3-4-96; Ord. No. 0-6-04, arts. 1, 2, 3-4-04; Ord. No. 0-5-10, art. 1, 7-15-10)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-27. - Construction of definitions.
Words and terms not explicitly defined in these regulations or in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated shall have the meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-2, 3-4-96)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-28. - Adoption of state and federal laws.
All laws of the State of Georgia and the United States of America, including the rules and regulations of any agency thereof, pertaining to the regulation of pawnshops, pawnbrokers, and pawning are hereby adopted.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-3, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-29. - Exclusions/exceptions.
Businesses which limit the purchase of used valuables to the acceptance of trade-in's for credit for new goods or the dispensing of refunds in regard to valuables previously purchased from said business shall not be regulated or covered under this article.
(Ord. No. 0-15-90, 5-21-90; Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-14, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-30. - Penalties.
Any person with an interest in the business, or his employee or agent, who shall:
(1)
Fail to make any entry of any required item in the permanent record book;
(2)
Make any false entry therein;
(3)
Falsify, obliterate, record illegible information, destroy, or remove from the place of business such permanent record book;
(4)
Refuse to allow any duly authorized law enforcement officer to inspect such permanent record book, or any goods in his possession, during the ordinary hours of business or any reasonable time, or refuse to allow any member of the general public to inspect goods in his possession being held under pawn or purchase (within the 15-day purchase and 30-day pawn dates), pursuant to this article, during ordinary hours of business;
(5)
Fail to maintain a record of each pawn or purchase transaction for at least four years;
(6)
Violate any other provision of this article;
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon being found guilty, fined up to $1,000.00 per offense and the approval to conduct business granted hereunder shall be revoked. Operation of any business hereunder in violation of any provision of this article shall constitute a separate offense for each day of operation.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-41, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-31. - Inspection.
As a condition to the granting of the approval to operate a pawnshop business in the city, every person with an interest in the business and every employee or agent of such person agrees to allow any duly authorized law enforcement officer, pursuant to his official duties, to be and remain on or about his premises without the formality of a warrant, provided said officer does not unduly interfere in the business's operation.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-45, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-32. - Revocation of license.
An approval to operate a pawn business under this article or employee permit issued hereunder shall be subject to suspension or revocation for violation of any provision of this article, regardless of the outcome of any criminal prosecution associated with violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-46, 3-4-96)
Secs. 22-33—22-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - REGISTRATION

Sec. 22-61. - Registration required; limitations.
(a)
Every person doing business in the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, as a pawnbroker, as defined herein, prior to commencing business shall make proper application to the city and shall pay the occupational taxes and administration fees as set out in article III of chapter 46 of the Code of the City of Fayetteville.
(b)
Every person who applies to do business in the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, as a pawnbroker as defined herein, prior to commencing business shall pay a regulatory fee to the city to cover the costs of regulation of the pawn business in the amount of $2,500.00 per year.
(c)
No application to do business as a pawnbroker shall be considered or approved where the number of such registered pawnshops and pawnbrokers which are conducting business at the time of such application numbers one for each 3,000 residents according to the latest decennial census figures available. In making this computation, fractions of population shall not be considered.
(d)
No person shall have an interest in more than one pawnshop or pawnbroker's business within the city.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-4, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-62. - Review of applications.
(a)
The city manager or designee shall review all applications for compliance with these regulations. All applicants shall furnish upon request all data, information, and records necessary for a complete background investigation.
(b)
The city manager or designee shall also have authority to prescribe such forms as it deems necessary for the proper administration of these regulations.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-5, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-63. - Applicant.
The applicant shall be the owner of the proposed business, if the business is solely owned, or a general partner, if a partnership. If a proposed business is a corporation, the applicant must be the president. Otherwise, no other individual may qualify as an applicant.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-6, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-64. - Qualifications.
(a)
The applicant and each individual with an interest in the business shall be a citizen of the United States.
(b)
The applicant must be a resident of the county for a period of one year preceding the date of filing application. The time requirement as to residency shall not apply to honorably discharged members of the nation's armed forces who have returned to the city to reside.
(c)
Corporations must either be incorporated in the State of Georgia or must have registered to do business in this state, and only the applying officer must meet the residency requirements.
(d)
No applicant, general manager, or person having an interest in the business shall have been convicted nor entered a plea of nolo contendere in any state, the United States, or any other country, within ten years immediately preceding the date of application for any felony, or crime involving moral turpitude, or any violation of the laws of any state, county, or municipality relating to the sale, manufacture, or distribution of alcoholic beverages, or soliciting for prostitution, pandering, letting premises for prostitution, keeping a disorderly place, illegal dealing in narcotics, sex offenses, any theft or burglary offense, receiving or possession of stolen property, or any statute or ordinance regulating the business of pawnbroker. In those instances involving corporations, this prohibition shall also apply to the corporation's president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer. In those instances involving corporations, this prohibition shall also apply to (1) any closely held corporation's president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, and all stockholders owning five percent or more of the corporation's stock, or a person having subscriptions, options, and/or warrants for purchase of a closely held corporation's stock that when fully executed would give that person five percent or more of the corporation's stock, and (2) any shareholder owning 50 percent or more of any corporation, whether closely held or not, or a person having subscriptions, options and/or warrants for purchase of a corporation's (whether closely held or not) stock that when fully executed would give that person 50 percent or more of the corporation's stock.
(e)
Applicants shall be the owners of the business premises or the holder of any lease thereon or the general agent of the owner.
(f)
The applicant (individual in case of proprietorship, applying officer in case of corporation, and one of the partners in case of partnership) shall be responsible for the management and operation of the business if approval is granted.
(g)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of the qualifications to the above and shall place same on file with the city before approval of the business is granted.
(h)
If the applicant is a partnership, all members of the partnership must approve of this application but only one member must meet the requirements for residency. However, all members of the partnership must meet the other qualifications. If approval of the business is granted, the approval shall apply to the partners in the name of the partnership.
(i)
No person shall be granted approval to engage in the business of pawning unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the governing body that the person is of good moral character.
(j)
An application shall not be granted, or if granted shall be revoked, should the city manager or his designee find any of the following:
(1)
The applicant and/or person with an interest in the business has conducted any business within the city which has required the necessity for unusual police observation or inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinance by the applicant or person with an interest in the business, or it was necessary for the city to take action to compel the adherence to any law, regulation, or ordinance; or
(2)
The location for which the business is proposed will create or add to existing traffic congestion which would be detrimental to the public safety or will adversely impact the general residential character of the neighborhood; or
(3)
The applicant and/or person with an interest in the business has ever had a pawn business suspended or closed by any governing entity.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-9, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-65. - Application contents and investigation.
(a)
Background investigations shall be made on the applicant and any other person with an interest in the business, and applicants must remit the fees established by the city for such investigations.
(b)
The application shall list the following: If the business is approved, the applicant shall immediately inform the city in writing of any changes in the following information. The applicant shall state the following information under oath on the application:
(1)
The business operation.
(2)
The name and address of the owner, if the business is solely owned.
(3)
Name and address of each applicant and each person who would have an interest in the business as defined in this article. In the case of a corporation, this list would include only those stockholders owning five percent or more of a closely held corporation's stock or a person having subscriptions, options, and/or warrants for purchase of a closely held corporation's stock that when fully executed would give that person five percent or more of the corporation's stock. In the case of a corporation that is not closely held, this list would include only stockholders owning 50 percent or more of a corporation's stock, or a person having subscriptions, options, and/or warrants for purchase of a corporation's (that is not closely held) stock that where fully executed would give that person 50 percent or more of the corporation's stock. In the case of a partnership, each general and limited partner would be included. The capacity in which each person will act (as proprietor, agent, employee, or otherwise) shall also be listed.
(4)
The name and address of the general manager of the particular business location.
(5)
If any person listed in (b)(2)—(4) above has lived at his/her current address for less than ten years, previous addresses for the last ten years must also be listed.
(6)
The name, address and date of birth of each employee working at the business location.
(7)
Description of the business operation, location, facilities, zoning district of proposed business, and time at which proposed business will begin.
(8)
Blueprint or scale drawing of the business facilities.
(9)
Plat of survey drawn to scale and prepared by a Georgia-licensed land surveyor indicating the location of the business and the distance to the nearest facilities and activities as measured by a straight line, as set out in section 22-128(e).
(10)
Complete sets of fingerprints for the applicant and any other person with an interest in the business listed in (b)(2)—(4) above shall be taken by the Fayetteville Police Department to be forwarded to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which shall search the files of the Georgia Crime Information Center for any instances of criminal activity. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation may also submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under the rules established by the United States Department of Justice for processing and identification of records.
(11)
Proof of payment of investigation fees and/or background check fees as established by the city must be established at the time of application.
(12)
The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant, where the applicant within the six months next preceding the date of said application conducted business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which such business was conducted.
(13)
Credentials from the person, firm or corporation for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative.
(14)
Such other information as to the identity or character of the owner or person or persons having an interest in, or the management or supervision of, the applicant's business, or the method or plan of doing such business as the city manager or city council may deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this article in the protection of the public good.
(15)
Whether or not the applicant, any person having an interest in the proposed business or license, any owner, principal, agent or employee of applicant or any person having the management or supervision responsibilities of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor (excluding traffic violations), or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense and the punishment assessed therefor.
(16)
Such other information and documents as may be required by the city manager.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-7, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-66. - Bond.
(a)
Every applicant shall post with the city a surety bond in favor of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia, in the amount of $30,000.00, which bond shall not be accepted unless with a corporate surety licensed to do business in Georgia, and unless it is conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all applicable provisions of federal, state, and local laws, regulations and city ordinances concerning the operation of a pawnbroker business, and all criminal laws regarding theft, burglary and receiving or possession of stolen property, and that the property purchased is guaranteed to be in accordance with the specifications, standards, and conditions represented to the purchaser by the applicant.
(b)
If any person shall be aggrieved by the conduct of any applicant or person with interest in the business, and shall recover judgment against him therefor, such aggrieved person may, after the return unsatisfied, either in whole or in part, of any execution issued upon said judgment, maintain an action in his own name upon the bond or letter of credit of said licensee in any court having jurisdiction of this amount of said judgment remaining unsatisfied.
(c)
In lieu of posting said bond, the applicant may post cash or a letter of credit from a recognized Georgia financial institution, the terms of which are satisfactory to the city manager.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-13, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-67. - Notice in newspaper.
The city manager shall publish for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper with general circulation in Fayetteville, notice of the date, place and time of a public hearing on the application. The notice shall contain the names of the applicant, all persons having an interest in the proposed business and all managers of the proposed business. The public hearing shall be held within 45 days of the application being deemed complete by the city manager.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-8, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-68. - Misleading, omitted or obsolete information.
(a)
Any untrue or misleading information contained in or material omission left out of an original or renewal application shall be cause sufficient for the denial thereof.
(b)
Any information which changes or otherwise becomes obsolete shall be reported to the city manager immediately.
(c)
When any approval of an application is granted on the basis of an application containing misleading or untrue information or omitted or unreported changed material information, such circumstances shall be cause for revocation of approval.
(d)
Any misstatement or concealment of fact in the application shall make the applicant liable to prosecution for false swearing under the law of the state and may be prosecuted as an offense against the city as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-10, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-69. - Renewal of license.
(a)
The renewal of an approved application is required annually. Such renewal shall be dependent upon proof that the renewal applicant meets all requirements upon which the original application was granted.
(b)
The applicant must provide at the time of application for renewal an affidavit substantiating compliance with the requirements set forth in this article.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-11, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-70. - Transfers.
(a)
When approval of a pawn business is granted pursuant to an application to the city, that approval shall not be transferable, either by location or among persons, except as hereinafter provided.
(b)
In the case of a death of any person having an interest in a business, approval of the business may be transferred to the estate of the deceased person; however, the duly appointed administrator or executor of the estate shall be named as responsible for such interest and said individual shall be subject to the qualifications of an applicant.
(c)
One or more partners in a partnership having an approved pawn business may withdraw in favor of one or more of the existing partners. In addition, partners or additional stockholders may be added where it is determined that the additional capital furnished is to be exclusively for additional inventory or the expansion of facilities and that the original partners are receiving none of the additional capital invested. All such additional partners or new principal stockholders must be approved by the city, and shall be subject to the qualifications of an applicant. Otherwise, no new ownership may be allowed.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-12, 3-4-96)
Secs. 22-71—22-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - EMPLOYEES

Sec. 22-96. - Employee permit.
Each person authorized or allowed to conduct any phase of business covered under this article shall be considered an employee and must have an approved employee permit, and this permit must be visibly displayed on the employee at all times [such employee is on the] business premises. An investigation fee, determined by the city, shall be paid by all pawn businesses for each employee.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-15, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-97. - Employment of certain persons prohibited.
It shall be unlawful in any premises to employ any person in any capacity whatsoever who has ever been convicted, pled guilty or nolo contendere within the past ten years, by this or any other state or by the United States or any other country, of soliciting for prostitution, pandering, letting premises for prostitution, keeping a disorderly place, illegally dealing in narcotics, sex offenses, of any offense relating to the manufacture or sale of alcoholic beverages, receiving or possession of stolen property, theft or burglary related offense, or any statute or ordinance regulating the business of pawnbroker.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-16, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-98. - Employees' list.
It shall be the duty of all businesses to file with the police chief of the city the names of all employees with their home addresses, home telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of employees, with the names of new employees must be filed with the police department within three days from the date of any such change. All employees shall be subject to such investigation rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary from time to time by the police department.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-17, 3-4-96)
Secs. 22-99—22-125. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - OPERATING REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 22-126. - Hours of operation.
All pawn businesses shall close their establishments and cease transacting business no later than 7:00 p.m. each day and begin their operation and commence transacting business at no time before 9:00 a.m. each day.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-35, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-127. - Business license and occupational tax.
See article III of chapter 46: Occupational License Taxes.
Sec. 22-128. - Location of businesses.
All businesses under this article shall be located in strict compliance with the city's zoning ordinance and at a location with an identifiable street address, which shall be stated on the application along with other required information; and no business under this article shall change its address without obtaining approval from the city manager and police chief. No business under this article shall be operated in or from a motel or hotel. All pawnshops shall be located in light manufacturing (M-1) or heavy manufacturing (M-2) zoning only.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-19, 3-4-96; Ord. No. 0-5-10, art. 1, 7-15-10)
Sec. 22-129. - Separate business establishment.
No business under this article shall be designed or operated so as to allow access to said business immediately from any other business without first exiting the other business into a common or open area to which the public at large has access.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-44, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-130. - Business entrance.
The front entrance of all pawn businesses shall be clearly visible from a public street.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-22, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-131. - Prohibited activities.
No pawn business shall permit on its premises any slot machines, pinball machines, video games, electronic games of any kind or character for use by the public, or any coin-operated machines operated for amusement purposes.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-20, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-132. - Interior visibility.
No screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing which shall prevent a clear view into the interior shall be permitted in the window or upon the doors of any pawnbroker's store. Each such retail store shall be so lighted that the interior of the store is visible day and night.
(Ord. No. 0-15-90, 5-21-90; Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-21, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-133. - Records to be kept.
All pawnbrokers shall, in addition to other records, keep books wherein shall be entered in permanent ink an accurate description of all property received by or pledged or sold to them. Such description shall include the brand name of the article, any identifying mark, manufacturers, identification, serial numbers, any numbers, any initials, social security number or name of any person or company, and a statement of the kind of material of which it is made. In such books there shall be entered also the name, age, address, signature and identification number from a driver's license and social security number of the person by whom same was delivered, deposited, or sold, the name of the broker, agent or employee receiving the item, the date and time when such transaction occurred, the price paid for the goods purchased and the check number issued if applicable. There shall be attached at all times to each item of personal property pawned or purchased by the pawn business an identification tag bearing a number corresponding to the number on the pawn or purchase tickets and book entry required herein. These entries shall be made simultaneously with the transaction. A permanent bound set of the pawn ticket shall constitute the book required by this article. All books and records required by this article and articles pledged or sold hereunder shall at all times be subject to inspection and examination by any law enforcement officer of the City of Fayetteville, Fayette County Sheriff's Department, any incorporated municipality in Fayette County, or the State of Georgia. Any person engaged in any business under this article who shall fail or refuse to keep the records as provided in this article, or who shall make false entries concerning the transaction, or who shall fail or refuse to permit an inspection by any said law enforcement officer of said records and of the property pledged with or sold to him shall be guilty of a violation of this article and the business's bond shall be forfeited to the city and the approval to operate the business shall be revoked.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-23, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-134. - Records maintained for four years.
The record of such pawn or purchase transaction regulated by this article shall be maintained for a period of not less than four years from date of transaction.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-34, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-135. - Standard forms required.
All businesses under this article shall use a standard form for pawn and a standard form for purchase; and no ticket may be used for a dual purpose. The design of this form shall be approved by the Fayetteville Police Department and the forms shall be numbered and chronologically used and sent to the Fayetteville Police Department as required in this article. Each number missing from the chronological sequence shall be considered a separate violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 0-15-90, 5-21-90; Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-24, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-136. - Daily report to Fayetteville Police.
Every business under this article shall make a daily report in writing to the Fayetteville Police Department of all property pledged or purchased during the 24-hour period ending at 7:00 p.m. on the date of the report. Such reports shall be legibly written or typed in English and shall show the name and address of the business; time of transaction; sequel number of the pawn or purchase tickets; amount paid or advanced; full description of articles, including kind, style material, color, design, kind and number of stones in jewelry and all identifying names, marks, numbers, initials, or social security numbers; and a description of the person selling or pawning said item including name, address, race, weight, height, hair color, driver's license number, and social security number.
(Ord. No. 0-15-90, 5-21-90; Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-25, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-137. - Identification required.
All businesses under this article, when receiving in pawn or in purchasing goods, shall require a driver's license or military I.D. card containing a picture showing positive identification of the person who is pawning, selling, or bartering, and shall verify the identification.
(Ord. No. 0-15-90, 5-21-90; Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-26, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-138. - Fingerprint required.
All businesses under this article shall require every person from whom it accepts goods on pawn or purchase to place the fingerprint of his right index finger (if right index finger is missing, the next finger in line will be used) in ink on the front of the copy of the pawn or purchase ticket which is to be sent to the Fayetteville Police Department.
(Ord. No. 0-15-90, 5-21-90; Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-27, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-139. - Photograph required.
All businesses under this article shall require every person from whom it accepts goods on pawn or purchase to submit to his photograph being taken by the employee who handles the transaction. The photograph shall be of the face, shall be four inches by five inches in size, and shall be delivered to the Fayetteville Police Department with the pawn or purchase ticket.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-28, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-140. - Purchased articles not to be disposed of for 30 days after acquisition.
Every business under this article shall hold, on the premises designated in the application for doing business, every purchase required to be listed in its records for at least 30 days before disposing of same by sale, transfer, or shipment. The provisions of this section shall not apply to purchases from licensed wholesalers in the normal course of business.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-29, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-141. - Pawned articles not to be disposed of for 30 days after acquisition.
Every business under this article which takes goods on pawn shall hold such goods for at least 30 days unless redeemed by the owner or on authority of the owner before disposing of same by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(Ord. No. 0-15-90, 5-21-90; Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-30, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-142. - Display of goods pledged or purchased.
For a period of 30 days from the date of purchase and 30 days from the date of pledge (unless redeemed by or with authority of the person who pledged the goods), all goods purchased or pawned and required to be listed in the records shall be kept on the premises designated in the application for doing business. Every item required to be kept on the premises hereunder shall have attached to it either a copy of the standard ticket form required in this article or the number of said form. Any person desiring to examine any merchandise shall first obtain a copy of a police department incident or stolen property report. Upon presentation of a copy of such report to any dealer or employee and upon giving in writing to such a dealer or employee a full description of the stolen items sought, including all identifying characteristics, his name, address, signature, identification, and incident or stolen property report number and issuing department, such individual shall be allowed to examine any merchandise of the type described on the premises. Such written information shall be kept in sequential, dated order in a permanent file or book. This record shall be kept in addition to all other records required herein.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-31, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-143. - Alteration.
Any item required to be kept or displayed under the provisions of the sections above shall be so kept in their original form as they existed when first purchased; and their physical characteristics shall not be altered in any material or immaterial manner.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-32, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-144. - Erasures, obliterations, write-overs, or typeovers are not allowed.
No person with an interest in a business or any employee shall erase, obliterate, typeover, write-over, or in any way cause the original entry on the records required hereunder to become illegible. All pawn or purchase tickets filled out in error shall be sent to the Fayetteville Police Department in their numbered order along with daily reports and shall have the word "void" typed or written across the front, but such entry shall not be used to cause the original entry to be illegible. If an error is made, and the ticket is still to be used, then a single line shall be drawn through the incorrect entry. This line shall not cause the original entry to be illegible, and the correct information entry shall be made on the next available area.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-33, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-145. - Dealing with minors.
It shall be unlawful for any person to receive in pawn or in purchase any goods of any character or of any description from any person who has not attained the age of 21 years.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-36, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-146. - Verification of age.
(a)
It shall be a violation of ordinances of the city for any agent, officer, or employee to receive in pawn or in purchase any good from the person without properly checking the identification of any person who is pawning or selling, which failure results in an underage person being allowed to pawn or sell any property. An underage person shall be a person under the age of 21 years.
(b)
For the purposes of this article, the term "identification" shall mean any document issued by any governmental agency containing a description of the person so identified, such person's photograph, and such person's date of birth. As used herein, the term "identification" shall include a passport, a military identification card, a driver's license, or a state department of public safety identification card.
(c)
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor offense and upon conviction thereof shall be assessed a fine of up to $1,000.00 for each offense.
(d)
Notwithstanding any criminal prosecution which may result from a violation of this section, and notwithstanding the results or outcome of any criminal prosecution for violation of this section, any pawn business which employs any officer, agent, or employee who fails to comply with the provisions with (a) above, which failure results in an underage person being allowed to pawn or sell any property, shall have its approval to conduct a pawn business in the City of Fayetteville revoked.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-37, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-147. - Business transactions conducted outside the building normally used for business transaction, parking lots or rear lot area, etc.
No business transactions shall be conducted outside the building designated as the normal place to conduct transactions. "Business transaction" means any aspect of business, including inspection or appraisal of any goods when it is possible for such goods to be taken inside the building where transactions normally are made ("possible" being here used in the broadest sense); and no person other than those possessing an employee permit or having an interest in the business as defined in this article shall be allowed to conduct any form of business transaction either inside the establishment or on any part of outside land area covered under address of the application.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-38, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-148. - Articles that have had serial numbers removed or altered or obliterated or have no serial number shall not be accepted.
No business under this article shall accept any articles which have had the serial number altered, obliterated, or removed from such article or which the person who is making the business transaction knows should have a serial number upon it, unless such person immediately notifies the police department and obtains the approval of a city police officer, after giving the police officer opportunity to inspect the article and interview the customer.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-39, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-149. - No article will be accepted unless the recording provisions of this article are followed.
No business under this article shall take any item in pawn or purchase, taking full or possession title thereto, without entering each transaction of such goods on its books.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-40, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-150. - Nonformed precious metal.
It shall be unlawful for any person or business under this article to purchase precious metals in a melted, smelted, or nonformed state, or to melt, smelt, or cause to be placed in a nonformed state any precious metals taken to pawn or purchase.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-42, 3-4-96)
Sec. 22-151. - Stolen items.
Every business under this article and every employee and agent of the business shall immediately upon request turn over to the Fayetteville Police Department every item believed by the police department to be a stolen item. The police department shall furnish a property receipt, including a case number of recovery, to the dealer surrendering such items. Said item shall be returned to the business only after it has been determined that such item is not stolen. If it is determined that such item is stolen, it shall be returned to its lawful owner.
(Ord. No. 0-7-96, § 18-43, 3-4-96)
Secs. 22-152—22-180. - Reserved.
