CODE OF ORDINANCES CITY OF FAYETTEVILLE, GEORGIA
____________
Adopted May 5, 1997
Effective May 5, 1997
____________
Published by Order of the City Council
____________
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF
FAYETTEVILLE, GEORGIA
AT THE TIME OF THIS CODIFICATION
____________
Mike Wheat
Mayor
____________
Glenn Brewer
Larry Dell
Al Hovey-King
Kenneth Steele
Walt White
City Council
____________
Joe Morton
City Manager
____________
David Winkle
City Attorney
____________
Judy Stephens
City Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a complete codification of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were ordinances adopted by the city council. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative table appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up-to-date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Mary Grace Tavel, Supervising Editor, and Jody Wilson, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Joe Morton, City Manager, and Judy Stephens, City Clerk, for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the City of Fayetteville readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Fayetteville, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Fayetteville, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Fayetteville, Georgia. 1997.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 0-6-97
An Ordinance Adopting and Enacting a New Code of Ordinances of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia; Establishing the Same; Providing for the Repeal of Certain Ordinances Not Included Therein; Except as Herein Expressly Provided; Providing for the Manner of Amending Such Code of Ordinances; Providing a Penalty for the Violation Thereof and Providing When This Ordinance Shall Become Effective.
Be it Ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Georgia and it is Hereby Ordained:
Section 1. That the Code of Ordinances, consisting of Chapters 1 through 94, each inclusive, is hereby adopted and enacted as the "Code of Ordinances, City of Fayetteville, Georgia," by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville.
Section 2. That all ordinances and resolution of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before December 16, 1996, and not included in the Code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are hereby specifically repealed.
Section 3. That the repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not affect the following:
(a)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance;
(b)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the City or any evidence of the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the City;
(c)
Any administrative ordinance of the City not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of such Code.
(d)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the City;
(e)
Any appropriation ordinance, or ordinance levying any tax;
(f)
Any right or franchise granted by the City Council to any person, firm or corporation;
(g)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the City;
(h)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the City;
(i)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(j)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the City or providing regulations for the same;
(k)
Any ordinance annexing property in the City;
(l)
Any ordinance regulating zoning in the City;
(m)
The minimum standard housing resolution;
(n)
Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not inconsistent with such Code;
(o)
Any ordinance fixing utility rates and charges;
(p)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing a planning commission;
(q)
Personnel policies and manual; and
(r)
Any ordinance enacted after December 16, 1996.
Such repeal shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance or resolution.
Section 4. That whenever in such Code, or in any secondary code adopted by reference, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or whenever in such Code or secondary code adopted by reference, the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation, concealing of a violation, or the harboring, assisting or protecting of a person charged with or convicted of a violation of any such provisions of such Code or any secondary code adopted by reference shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1000.00, by sentence of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or to community service or alternative sentencing for a period not exceeding six months for each offense, or any combination thereof, in the discretion of the municipal court judge as provided in Section 1-8 of such Code.
Section 5 That all additions or amendment to such Code when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the City Council to make the same a part thereof shall be deemed to be incorporated in such Code so that reference to the "Code of Ordinances, City of Fayetteville, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
Section 6. That in case of the amendment by the City Council of any section of such Code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in Section 4 of this Ordinance and Section 1-8 of such Code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
Section 7. That a copy of such Code shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk preserved in looseleaf for, or in such other form as the City Clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the City Clerk, or someone authorized by the City Clerk, to insert in their designated places all amendments, ordinances, resolutions or motions which indicate the intention of the City Council to make the same a part of such Code when the same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from such Code all provisions which may be repealed from time to time by the City Council. The copy of such Code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine the same.
Section 8. That it shall be unlawful for any person to change or alter by addition or deletions, any part or portions of such Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, which will cause the law of the City of Fayetteville to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in Section 1-8 of such Code and in Section 4 of this Ordinance.
Section 9. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 10 If any part of this Ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect the remainder of this enactment, and such remainder shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 11. This Ordinance shall be effective on the date of its approval by the City Council.
Approved by the Mayor and Council of the City of Fayetteville at a regular meeting of the Mayor and Council on the 5th day of May, 1997, by the following voting for adoption:
EXPAND
/s/
      Walt White, Mayor Pro Tem
    EXPAND
/s/
      Glen Brewer
    EXPAND
/s/
      Albert W. Hovey-King
    EXPAND
/s/
      Kenneth Steele
    EXPAND
/s/
      Larry Dell
    Attest:
EXPAND
/s/
      Michael E. Wheat, Mayor
    EXPAND
/s/
      Judy Stephens, Clerk
