ARTICLE VII. - PLUMBING CODE

Sec. 6-80. - Code adopted.
There is hereby adopted for the purposes of establishing standards and procedures affecting the installation of plumbing and plumbing materials the Georgia State Minimum State Plumbing Code, latest addition, as adopted by the State of Georgia, which code is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. In addition, appendices A, B, C, D, F, G, I and J thereto are adopted. At least one (1) copy of the plumbing code is on file in the office of the building official.
(Ord. of 9-17-91; Ord. of 8-19-97)
Sec. 6-81. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Sept. 17, 1991, amended the Code by deleting provisions contained in § 6-81. Said provisions pertained to amendments to the plumbing code and derived from an ordinance adopted July 6, 1989.
Sec. 6-82. - Plumbing advisory board.
(a)
Appointment. There is hereby established the plumbing advisory board, which shall consist of five (5) members. Such board shall be composed of three (3) plumbing contractors registered by county and one (1) registered journeyman plumber and one (1) person not involved in plumbing or contracting work. The board shall be appointed by the board of commissioners. The board shall elect a chairman.
(b)
Term of office. Each member shall serve a term of four (4) years. Vacancies shall be filled by the board of commissioners. Continued absence of any member from regular meetings of the board shall, at the discretion of the chairman, render any such member liable to immediate removal from office.
(c)
Duties. The powers of the board are expressly limited to advisory powers concerning the installation of plumbing and plumbing materials, except where additional powers are expressly set out in this code. Four (4) members of said board constitute a quorum thereof for the transaction of any business properly coming before the board.
(d)
Procedure. The board shall establish rules and regulations for its own procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this code. The board shall meet at regular intervals, to be determined by the chairman, or in any event, the board shall meet within ten (10) days after notice of appeal has been received.
(e)
Records. The chief plumbing inspector shall act as secretary of the plumbing advisory board and shall make a detailed record of all its proceedings, which shall set forth the reasons for its decisions, the vote of each member participating therein, the absence of a member, and any failure of a member to vote.
Sec. 6-83. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Sept. 17, 1991, amended the Code by deleting provisions contained in § 6-83. Said provisions pertained to installation regulations contained in the Georgia State Plumbing code and carried no history note.
Sec. 6-84. - Plumbing permit.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commence any plumbing installation until a permit has been obtained from and the required fee paid to the permit office.
Sec. 6-85. - Permit and/or inspection fees.
Plumbing permit and/or inspection fees shall be as provided in a schedule adopted by the board of commissioners and on file in the office of the building official.
Secs. 6-86—6-89. - Reserved.
