ARTICLE V. - MECHANICAL CODE

Sec. 6-50. - Code adopted.
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing standards and procedures affecting the installation of warm air heating and air condition the Georgia State Minimum Standard Mechanical Code, latest edition, as adopted by the State of Georgia. In addition, appendices A and C thereto are adopted. The Standard Mechanical Code is published by Southern Standard Building Code Congress International, Inc., 900 Montclair Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35212-1206, and each of said codes are adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. At least (1) copy of the mechanical code is on file in the office of the building official.
(Ord. of 9-17-91; Ord. of 8-19-97)
Sec. 6-51. - Mechanical advisory board.
(a)
Appointment. Such board shall be composed of four (4) air conditioning and heating contractors and engineers familiar with air conditioning and heating, each of whom is licensed in the county. The board shall elect a chairman.
(b)
Term of office. Each member shall serve a term of four (4) years. Vacancies shall be filled by the board of commissioners. Continued absence of any member from regular meetings of the board shall, at the discretion of the chairman, render any such member liable to immediate removal from office.
(c)
Duties. The powers of said board are expressly limited to advisory powers concerning the installation of warm air heating and air conditioning, except where additional powers are expressly set out in this Code. Three (3) members of said board shall constitute a quorum thereof for the transaction of any business properly coming before them.
(d)
Procedure. The board shall establish rules and regulations for its own procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this Code. The board shall meet at regular intervals, to be determined by the chairman, or in any event, the board shall meet within ten (10) days after notice of appeal has been received.
(e)
Records. The chief mechanical inspector shall act as a secretary of the mechanical advisory boards and shall make a detailed record of all its proceedings, which shall set forth the reasons for its decisions, the vote of each member participating therein, the absence of a member, and any failure of a member to vote.
Sec. 6-52. - Mechanical permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commence the installation of warm air heating and air conditioning equipment until a permit has been obtained from and the required fee paid to the permit office.
Sec. 6-53. - Permit and/or inspection fees.
Mechanical permit and/or inspections fees shall be as provided in a schedule adopted by the board of commissioners and on file in the office of the building official.
Secs. 6-54—6-59. - Reserved.
