ARTICLE X. - MOVING OF BUILDINGS

Sec. 6-140. - Moving permit—Required; number limited.
A house, building or other structure or any part of a house, building or other structure shall not be moved or caused to be moved by any person through or across any sidewalk, street, alley or highway within the governmental limits of the county, without such person first obtaining a permit from the building official. Furthermore, no contractor or developer who is engaged in the business of restoring moved-in houses shall be allowed more than one (1) building permit for the reconstruction of moved-in houses at any one (1) given time.
(Ord. of 12-3-85, § 55-1101)
Sec. 6-141. - Same—Application; inspection.
(a)
Any person desiring to move a building, house or other structure shall first file with the building official a written application setting forth the following information:
(1)
Type and kind of building to be moved.
(2)
The original cost of such building.
(3)
The extreme dimensions of the length, height and width of building.
(4)
Its present location and proposed new location by lot, block, subdivision and street numbers, or plat and legal description if not within a subdivision.
(5)
The approximate time such building will be upon the streets, and contemplated route that will be taken from present to new location.
(6)
The complete name, address and telephone number of the current owner.
(7)
A written contract between the mover of the structure and the party for whom the structure is moved, or proof of ownership of the structure by the mover.
(b)
The building official shall conduct a preliminary inspection of the house, building or other structure proposed to be moved at its present location prior to its removal and relocation. If in the opinion of the building official, the moving of any structure will cause serious injury to persons or serious damage to property or serious injury to the streets or other public improvements, or the structure to be moved has deteriorated more than fifty (50) percent of its original value by fire or other element, or the moving of the structure will violate any of the requirements of this Code or of the zoning regulations, the permit shall not be issued and the structure shall not be moved over the streets. Any structure being moved for which a permit was granted shall not be allowed to remain in or on the streets for more than forty-eight (48) hours.
(c)
A nonrefundable application and processing fee as prescribed from time to time by the board of commissioners, on file in the office of the clerk, shall be paid to the county at the time the written application required in subsection (a) hereof is submitted to the county. The applicant shall also pay to the county an inspection fee calculated at an hourly rate as provided from time to time by the board of commissioners, on file in the office of the clerk, for each hour that the building official or the building official's delegate is away from the county office in connection with the inspection of the house, building or other structure at its present location, together with mileage expenses for each mile the building official or delegate travels from the county office to the house, building or other structure, at the rate prescribed from time to time by the board of commissioners, on file in the office of the clerk.
(Ord. of 12-3-85, § 55-1102)
Sec. 6-142. - Bond.
The building official, as a condition precedent to the issuance of such permit, shall require a bond to be executed by a person desiring such removal permit, with corporate surety to such official's satisfaction. Such bond shall be made payable to the applicable governing body and for such amount as the building official prescribes. It shall indemnify the applicable governing body against any damage caused by the moving of a structure to streets, curbs, sidewalks, shade trees, highways and any other property which may be affected by the moving of a structure. Such surety bond shall also be conditioned upon and liable for strict compliance with the terms of said permit, as to route to be taken and limit of time in which to effect such removal and to repair or compensate for the repair and to pay said applicable governing body as liquidated damages an amount not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) to be prescribed by the building official for each day's delay in completing such removal or in repairing any damages to property or public improvement or in clearing all public streets, alleys or highways of all debris occasioned thereby. In lieu of the foregoing, if the mover of the structure is licensed by the state public service commission and shows proof that all appropriate bonds have been submitted to and accepted by the public service commission, then the within and foregoing bond requirements shall be waived.
(Ord. of 12-3-85, § 55-1103)
Sec. 6-143. - Notices to be given by building official.
Upon the issuance of aforesaid moving permit, the building official or some other party acting upon the building official's request shall cause notice to be given to the fire marshal, chief of the fire department, telephone, gas or light companies, or others whose property may be affected by such removal. The building department shall set forth in all notices the route that will be taken, time started, and approximate time of completion.
(Ord. of 12-3-85, § 55-1104)
Sec. 6-144. - Public safety requirements.
(a)
Every building, house or other structure which occupies any portion of public property after sundown, shall have sufficient lights continuously burning between sunset and sunrise for the protection of the public.
(b)
There shall be a minimum of five (5) red lights placed on each street side of the building, house or other structure; such red lights shall be attached to the structure in such a fashion as to indicate extreme width, height and size.
(c)
There shall be placed in addition to the red lights, on the structure, flares at regular intervals for a distance of two hundred (200) feet up the street on each side of the building, house or other structure.
(d)
When more than fifty (50) percent of the street, measured between curbs, is occupied at night by the structure, or when in the opinion of the building official, flagmen are necessary to divert or caution traffic, the owner or person moving such building shall employ at such owner's or person's expense, two (2) flagmen, one (1) at each street intersection beyond the building; such flagmen shall remain at these intersections diverting or cautioning traffic from sunset to sunrise. Red lights shall be employed in flagging traffic at night.
(Ord. of 12-3-85, § 55-1105)
Sec. 6-145. - Improvements by owner required; building permit.
(a)
The owner of any house, building or other structure proposed to be moved shall make all necessary improvements required in order for said house, building or other structure to comply with the requirements of the building, electrical, plumbing and mechanical codes as adopted in the county, within ninety (90) working days (defined as Monday through Friday) from the date the house, building or other structure is moved into the county and placed on the site where it shall be permanently located. The owner shall be required to acquire a building permit from the building official at the time improvements are begun to the house, building or other structure. Rates for the building permit shall be those established by the county. The permit shall be valid for a period of sixty (60) working days (the "initial term") from the date the house, building or other structure is moved into the county and placed on the site where it shall be permanently located, and it may be renewed for an additional period of thirty (30) working days at the expiration of the initial term upon payment to the county of a renewal fee established by the county, provided the foundation, roof, windows and all exterior finish are completed, the house is dampproof, and the plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems are roughed-in, all to the satisfaction of the building official. Extensions of such time for construction as deemed reasonable may be granted by the building official upon a showing of delay caused by matters beyond the control of the owner. If the reconstruction is not completed to the degree hereinabove required at the expiration of the initial term, and if the time for completion is not otherwise extended by the building official as provided herein, then the owner shall pay a fine to the county of a sum as prescribed from time to time by the board of commissioners, on file in the office of the clerk, per working day for each working day that the required construction is not completed. If the required construction is not fully completed following the renewal term of thirty (30) working days after an extension is given, and if the time for completion is not otherwise extended by the building official as provided herein, then the owner shall also pay a fine to the county in the same amount as above provided, per working day for each working day that the construction is not fully completed.
(b)
The application for the moving permit shall be accompanied by an application for a building permit and, except for single-family residential dwellings, a complete set of plans and specifications showing all contemplated improvements, signed by the owner or the owner's agent.
(c)
No house, building or other structure may be occupied by any person until a final certificate of occupancy is granted by the building official.
(Ord. of 12-3-85, § 55-1106)
Secs. 6-146—6-149. - Reserved.
