ARTICLE IV. - PAWNBROKERS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Pawnbrokers, O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130 et seq.

Sec. 12-60. - License required.
No person may operate a pawnbroker business without obtaining a business license and paying the required fees therefor. No such license shall be granted until a public hearing thereon is conducted by the board of commissioners, which shall grant or deny the license based on the evidence before it.
(Ord. of 3-7-78, § 1)
Sec. 12-61. - Affidavit as to reading of regulations.
Each individual applying for a license shall be given a copy of this article and shall sign an affidavit stating that the applicant has read and understands the provisions hereof.
(Ord. of 10-12-76, § 11)
Sec. 12-62. - Advertisement of intent to engage in business.
(a)
All applicants for licenses hereunder shall give notice in a form approved by the business license office of the purpose of making such application by advertisement for at least four (4) consecutive issues in the paper published in the county in which legal advertisements of the county are carried, which notice shall contain a particular description of the location of the proposed business and shall give the name the applicant, and if a partnership, the names of the partners and if a corporation, the names of the officers and directors. The notice shall also state the date and time the board of commissioners shall hear the application.
(b)
The applicant shall cause to be placed on the location of the proposed business a sign or signs stating the type of license applied for and the date of hearing, in the following form: "Pawnbroker license applied for. A hearing before the Board of Commissioners of Douglas County shall be held on the _______ day of _______, 19_______. All interested persons take notice." The sign or signs shall not be less than twenty-four (24) by eighteen (18) inches, and shall face toward all public streets, sidewalks or other public property which adjoin or adjoins the location so as to be clearly legible by persons using such public area, and shall be posted for a two-week period of fourteen (14) days immediately preceding the date of the hearing.
(c)
No license may be granted until all notice required herein is completed.
(Ord. of 3-7-78(1), § 1A)
Sec. 12-63. - Fee as established.
The annual business license fee for each pawnbroker doing business in the county shall be as prescribed by the board of commissioners and on file in the business license office. The applicant shall also pay an application fee as set by the board of commissioners and on file in the business license office.
(Ord. of 10-12-76, § 2)
Sec. 12-64. - Review of application.
No action on any application for a pawnbroker's license shall be approved until the sheriff's department has reviewed such application and forwarded such office's finding thereon to the business license office. No license shall be granted by the county to the applicant if the findings render the applicant disqualified hereunder.
(Ord. of 10-12-76, § 3)
Sec. 12-65. - Limitation on issuance.
No pawnbroker's license shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of the offense of any form of theft, robbery, burglary or deceptive practices as defined by the state criminal code or by the laws of any other state in which such act was committed.
(Ord. of 10-12-76, § 4)
Sec. 12-66. - Records.
Each pawnbroker licensed hereunder shall furnish to the sheriff each week a list of every article pledged to such licensee. The licensee shall also furnish to the sheriff a list of all property acquired during the previous week, and a complete description of the individuals selling said property by full name, date of birth, address, social security number and telephone number. Such reports shall give an accurate description of all such articles including any identifying numbers, and the date and time such articles were acquired.
(Ord. of 10-12-76, § 5)
Sec. 12-67. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An ord. of 10-15-13, § 1, repealed Code § 12-67, which pertained to weapons and derived from Ord. of 10-12-76, § 6.
Sec. 12-68. - Minors.
No pawnbroker shall have any business dealings with a minor, nor shall a pawnbroker's license be issued to a minor, nor shall a pawnbroker employ a minor to assist in the business.
(Ord. of 10-12-76, § 7)
Sec. 12-69. - Stolen or lost goods.
It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker to report to the sheriff any article pledged to such pawnbroker, or which is sought to be pledged to such pawnbroker, if such pawnbroker shall have any reason to believe that the article was stolen, or lost, and found by the person attempting to pledge it in the case of a lost article.
(Ord. of 10-12-76, § 8)
Sec. 12-70. - Violation—Constitutes a misdemeanor.
Any person convicted for violation of any provision of this article shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
(Ord. of 10-12-76, § 9)
Sec. 12-71. - Same—Revocation of license.
The license of any pawnbroker may be revoked by the board of commissioners for those reasons set forth in section 12-19. The procedure required for such revocation shall be that established in section 12-19.
(Ord. of 10-12-76, § 10)
Sec. 12-72. - Same—Civil remedy.
In the case of any violation of this article, the appropriate county authority or any person who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute an injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the violation of the article.
(Ord. of 10-12-76, § 12)
Sec. 12-73. - Additional miscellaneous provisions.
In addition to the requirements of this article and where not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, each applicant shall, where deemed necessary by the business license office, comply with the provisions of Article I of this chapter.
Secs. 12-74—12-79. - Reserved.
