ARTICLE V. - MASSAGE THERAPISTS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance of March 18, 2008, § 3, amended the Code by renaming art. V. Formerly, art. V was entitled "massage, massage parlors."

Sec. 12-80. - Definition.
A person who applies manual or mechanical massage or similar treatment to human trunks or limbs shall be deemed, within the terms of this article, as a masseur or masseuse.
Sec. 12-81. - License—Required; contents of application.
(a)
Any person who was engaged in massage therapy practice prior to July 1, 2005 and is not currently licensed by the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 43-24A-1 et seq. who is desiring to engage in the business, trade or profession of a masseuse or masseur, before engaging in such business, trade or profession, shall obtain a business license and pay all required fees. The application shall be in writing and shall set forth the following:
(1)
Name and address of applicant.
(2)
Name and address of any person having previously employed the applicant for a space of two (2) years or longer.
(3)
If such applicant is a partnership or corporation, the address of the partnership or corporation, as well as the names and addresses of the agents and employees of the partnership or corporation for a period of two (2) years immediately prior to the filing of the application.
(4)
A certificate certifying as to the good moral character of the applicant, signed by three (3) currently qualified and registered voters of good moral character of the county. The letters shall not be required for annual renewals of licenses issued hereunder.
(5)
Should the applicant be a partnership or corporation, the partnership or corporation shall also submit with the application a certificate on the good moral character of each employee and agent of the partnership or corporation who is actually engaged in such business for the partnership or corporation.
(b)
The applicant must be fingerprinted by the sheriff's department and character references must be checked on all persons who will operate as masseuse or masseur and all employees. Finger-prints must be made at least ten (10) days prior to issuance of the license to allow for investigation of applicant and employees. The sheriff's department shall forward its findings to the business license office. No license shall be granted by the county to the applicant if the findings render the applicant disqualified hereunder or if the applicant has been convicted of any crimes involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. of 3-18-08, § 2)
Sec. 12-82. - Same—Qualifications of applicant.
An applicant hereunder, prior to making application for a license, must have the following qualifications:
(1)
The applicant may be male or female and must be, in the opinion of the business license office, of good moral character. In the event the applicant is a partnership or corporation, such entity must be created in or domesticated under the laws of this state.
(2)
The applicant must furnish a current health certificate from a medical doctor which shall accompany such application as an exhibit. Should the applicant be a partnership or corporation, it shall furnish the certificate to cover its agents or employees actually engaged and working under the license.
(3)
The applicant must furnish a photostatic copy of a diploma of graduation from a school as an exhibit to the application. The diploma must be representative of the fact that the applicant attended a course of study of not less than six (6) months, wherein such course of study consisted of a curriculum of physical culture, massage, hydrotherapy, electrotherapy, hygiene, health service management and other such subjects. If the applicant should be a partnership or corporation, then the employee or agent of the partnership or corporation who is to be the manager of the establishment must furnish a photostatic copy of the diploma of graduation as set forth above.
(4)
In the event the applicant should not have a diploma, then the applicant must have had an apprenticeship and practical experience for a period of not less than two (2) years in a regularly licensed massage or physical culture studio in which the applicant has received training and experience in physical culture, massage, hydrotherapy, electrotherapy, hygiene, health service management and other such subjects. The applicant, or the manager in the event the applicant is a partnership or corporation, must furnish with the application an affidavit of previous employment, together with an affidavit of the persons under whom such apprenticeship or practical experience was obtained, specifying that the applicant has satisfied the above requirements.
Sec. 12-83. - Same—Fee as established.
The annual business license fee for each licensee hereunder shall be as prescribed by the board of commissioners and on file in the business license office. The applicant shall also pay an application fee as set by the board of commissioners and on file in the business license office.
Sec. 12-84. - Same—Issuance.
If the application is submitted in proper form and all qualifications met, the same shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for review at a public meeting and for approval or disapproval.
Sec. 12-85. - Same—Revocation.
The license granted in this article may be revoked by the board of commissioners for those reasons set forth in section 12-29.11. The procedure required for such revocation shall be that established in section 12-29.11.
Sec. 12-86. - Affidavit as to reading of regulations.
Each individual applying for a license shall be given a copy of this article and shall sign an affidavit stating that the applicant has read and understands the provisions hereof.
Sec. 12-87. - Training authority of licensee.
Any applicant granted a license hereunder shall have the authority to train masseurs and masseuses under such licensee's supervision, in such licensee's studio or establishment, provided that the licensee shall furnish to the business license office a list of all such trainees.
Sec. 12-88. - List of employees.
It shall be the duty of all persons holding a license under this article to file with the business license office the names of all employees, their home addresses, home telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of employees with the names of new employees must be filed with the business license office within three (3) days from the date of any such change.
Sec. 12-89. - Records.
It shall be the duty of any person granted a license under this article to maintain correct and accurate records of the names and addresses of the persons receiving treatment at such an establishment, the type of treatment administered, and the name of the person at the establishment administering the treatment. The records shall be subject to inspection at any time by any representative of the business license office.
Sec. 12-90. - Treating person of opposite sex.
It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license as a masseur or masseuse to treat a person of the opposite sex, except upon the signed order of a licensed physician, osteopath or registered physical therapist, which order shall be dated and shall specifically state the number of treatments, not to exceed ten (10). The date and hour of each treatment given and the name of the operator shall be entered on such order by the establishment where the treatments are given and shall be subject to inspection by the business license office. The requirements of this section shall not apply to treatments given in the residence of the patient, the office of a licensed physician, osteopath or registered physical therapist, or in a regularly established and licensed hospital or sanitarium. A violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the license of such individual masseuse and/or masseur and/or massage parlor.
Sec. 12-91. - Minor patrons.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to patronize any massage parlor, unless such person carries at the time of such patronage a written order directing the treatment to be given by a regularly licensed physician.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the operator of such massage parlor to determine the age of the person patronizing such massage parlor. A violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the license of such individual masseuse and/or masseur and/or massage parlor.
Sec. 12-92. - Massages by unlicensed persons.
Massages may be given by persons not holding a license as masseur or masseuse provided such massages are given under the direct supervision of a person having a license as a masseur or masseuse and further provided a person having a license as a masseur or masseuse shall be in the same room where the massage is being administered during the entire time of the giving of the massage.
Sec. 12-93. - Procedure.
In addition to the requirements of this article, and where not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, each applicant shall comply with the provisions of Article I of this chapter.
Secs. 12-94—12-99. - Reserved.
