Chapter 4 - AMUSEMENTS

Sec. 4-1. - Definition.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them:
Amusement center: Any establishment that allows or provides three (3) or more coin-operated amusement machines for use within one (1) enclosure.
Coin-operated amusement machine: Any amusement machine operated by means of the insertion of a coin, token or similar object, for the purpose of amusement or skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged. The term does not include vending machines which do not incorporate gaming or amusement features, nor does the term include any coin-operated mechanical musical machines.
Operator: Any person who provides for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose of operation by another, any machine as herein defined, whether such setting up for operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental, or on the basis of a division of the income derived from such machine, or otherwise.
Poolroom: Any public place where a person is permitted to play the game of pool or billiards. The terms "pool" or "billiards" shall include any game played on a table surrounded by an elastic ledge of cushions with balls which are impelled by a cue.
Proprietor: Any person who, as the owner, lessee or proprietor, has under such person's control any establishment, place or premises in or at which such machine is provided for use or play.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-401; Ord. of 3-19-85, § 3.1)
Sec. 4-2. - License—Required; constitutes a privilege; nontransferable.
(a)
No person shall engage in the business of amusement center or poolroom as herein defined without first having obtained the proper license therefor, after payment of the proper fee as hereinafter defined and after having complied with the other provisions hereof.
(b)
Any license required under this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege and shall not constitute property.
(c)
The license is not transferable in any manner.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-404; Ord. of 3-19-85, §§ 3.4, 3.5)
Sec. 4-3. - Same—Application.
Application for amusement center or poolroom licenses shall be made to the permit office with the payment of the annual license fees prescribed therefor. The application must be signed and sworn to by the applicant in the case of a sole proprietorship. In case the applicant is a partnership, all partners must sign and verify the application. In case the applicant is a corporation, any authorized officer and the secretary must sign and verify the application and indicate their official position. The information required in the application form must be furnished as to each person signing the application. Each application shall be accompanied by the required license fee and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The applicant's full name.
(2)
The applicant's residence address.
(3)
The applicant's business address.
(4)
The address of the proposed amusement center.
(5)
The name and address of every person who has any interest in the amusement center, and the nature of that interest.
(6)
Whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any felony, or of pandering, gambling, operation of a gambling device, operating of a gaming house or being a keeper of a house of ill fame or any other misdemeanor.
(7)
Whether or not the applicant is at the time of making the application keeping or in any way connected with a gaming house or a house of ill fame.
(8)
Whether or not the applicant or the applicant's spouse or any member of the applicant's household is a member or employee of the sheriff's department of the county; whether or not any member or employee of the sheriff's department of the county is interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the license applied for, the devices or the operation of the same; and whether or not the applicant has received or borrowed money or anything else of value or accepted credit from any member or employee of the department or the spouse or any member of the household of any member or employee.
(9)
A statement that the applicant permits a record of such applicant's fingerprints to be made by the sheriff's department for the purpose of additional investigation to determine whether or not the application should be granted.
(10)
Written approval of the sheriff or the sheriff's authorized representative who shall issue such approval when such officer or representative finds that the applicant is not guilty of any of the violations or facts listed in subsections (6), (7) or (8) above.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-411; Ord. of 3-19-85, § 3.12(A))
Sec. 4-4. - Same—Investigation and inspection to determine compliance; conditions of issuance; issuance; display.
(a)
Investigation and inspection; conditions. Before any license under this chapter shall be issued, investigation of the application and inspection of the premises shall be made by the county building inspector, fire marshal, sheriff's department, and such other county departments and agencies as may be deemed necessary to determine whether the applicant, the devices or machines and the premises fully comply with all pertinent ordinances and regulations. For standards for such determination the following shall be considered:
(1)
No license shall be issued where the location of the premises or any device or machine located therein shall constitute a nuisance or danger so as to impede safe ingress or egress from the premises.
(2)
All wiring and connections to each machine or device shall comply with the electrical code and fire code of the county.
(3)
No machine or device shall be placed or located so as to constitute a nuisance to others through sound or otherwise. The placement and control by licensee of each machine shall, at all times, not be such that the sound is disturbing to the public in the street or in any other portion of the building.
(4)
There shall be sufficient parking on or about the premises so as to provide parking for the licensee's customers and so as to prevent parking on the streets or adjoining property. Minimum off-street parking facilities provided shall be not less than one (1) space for each two (2) devices or machines.
(5)
Amusement centers and poolrooms shall only be permitted in areas zoned under the county zoning ordinance. No license shall be granted in an area zoned for other than General Commercial or Neighborhood Shopping use under the present or any future zoning ordinance of the county.
(6)
No license shall be granted to any applicant who makes any false or misleading statement in the application or who has been convicted or a crime involving moral turpitude, or for the sale or use of any drug, alcohol or other intoxicant.
(7)
No license shall be granted to any applicant at any location unless every provision of this chapter is complied with and completed; later noncompliance shall be grounds for revocation of the license.
(8)
No license shall be granted for any location unless lighting outside the proposed location is adequate to deter illegal or illicit activity immediately surrounding the premises.
(b)
Issuance authorized; continued compliance. Upon receipt of the proper application and the fee and approval, the permit office may then issue a license for the amusement center or poolroom. The standards set forth in this section shall be complied with in full throughout the operation of the amusement center or poolroom.
(c)
One location. No license shall be valid except for the location shown in the application. Not more than one (1) location shall be operated under one (1) license.
(d)
Display. Each licensee shall display on the amusement center or poolroom premises an approved license provided by the county.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, §§ 61-405.1, 61-406, 61-407, 61-409(e), 61-411(b), (c); Ord. of 3-19-85, §§ 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.10(E), 3.12(B), (C))
Sec. 4-5. - Same—Annual fees.
(a)
All licenses must be renewed annually, at which time the permit office may request reverification of all requirements under this chapter for the purpose of determining whether the applicant has conformed to the rules and regulations of this chapter in determining whether such license shall be renewed.
(b)
At the time of filing the application for the license, the applicant shall pay a fee, the amount to be set from time to time by the governing body. A schedule of the fee may be maintained in the office of the board of commissioners and the permit office for public inspection.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-408; Ord. of 3-19-85, § 3.9)
Sec. 4-6. - Same—Suspension or revocation.
The right to suspend or revoke every license issued under this chapter is hereby expressly reserved, should the location, the licensee or the operation of any coin-operated amusement machine or pool or billiard table be contrary to any provision of this chapter. Licensee shall be given five (5) days' notice at the licensed location of time, date and place of hearing to show cause why such license should not be suspended or revoked, together with the violations of this chapter or law charged. The licensee may appear at such hearing, with or without counsel, and submit evidence in such licensee's defense.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-410; Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3-11)
Sec. 4-7. - Opening premises for inspection.
Each operator or licensee shall, at all times, open every portion of the licensed premises for inspection by the sheriff's department and other county departments for the purpose of enforcing any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-409(a); Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3.10(A))
Sec. 4-8. - Security guard or supervisor.
Each operator or licensee shall have present on the premises or on such portion of the premises where any coin-operated amusement machines, pool or billiard tables are located and where any bowling alley facility or skating rink facility is operated, and in the parking lot provided for patrons of such facilities at least one (1) security guard or supervisor at all times that the facilities or premises are open to the public and which guard or supervisor shall be a person who has not been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or drug or alcohol abuse.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-409(b); Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3.10(B); Ord. of 5-2-89)
Sec. 4-9. - Sound control.
The licensee shall, at all times, control the sound so as not to cause a disturbance or nuisance to others in the vicinity of the machines. The licensee shall, at all times, place the machine so that the part of the machine from which the sound emits shall not be within five (5) feet of the front entrance of the place of business, and the licensee shall not, at any time, place a music machine so that the sound is disturbing to the public in the street or to other persons occupying the building in the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-409(c); Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3.10(C))
Sec. 4-10. - Hours of operation.
Amusement centers, including but not limited to facilities where coin-operated amusement machines, pool or billiard tables are located, bowling alleys and skating rink facilities are permitted to operate only during the hours from 9:00 a.m. through midnight on Mondays through Thursdays and from 9:00 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays through 2:00 a.m. on the next succeeding day and from 1:00 p.m. until midnight on Sunday.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-409(f); Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3.10(F); Ord. of 5-2-89)
Sec. 4-11. - Overcrowding of premises.
It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to see that the licensed premises do not become overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard to the health or safety of persons therein.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-409(h); Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3.10(H))
Sec. 4-12. - Alcoholic beverages prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of operating an amusement center to sell, offer for sale or knowingly permit to be sold or offered for sale or to be dispensed or consumed or brought on the licensed premises any alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-409(f)(i); Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3.10(I))
Sec. 4-13. - Intoxicated persons.
No operator or licensee shall permit intoxicated persons to loiter on the premises.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-409(d)(iii); Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3.10(D)(2))
Sec. 4-14. - Pornographic devices not permitted.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall in any way be construed to authorize, license or permit any machine or device which exhibits or allows viewing of photographs or moving pictures of an obscene or pornographic nature or in any manner prohibited by law or by the ordinances of the county. The machines of any operator or proprietor or other person who shall permit in any way, either directly or indirectly, any such use of any device or machine, shall be subject to immediate confiscation by the sheriff's department as contraband and such person shall be punished as for a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-403; Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3.3)
Sec. 4-15. - Indecent, etc., acts prohibited; maintaining order.
(a)
No operator or licensee, personally, directly or indirectly, or by any servant, agent or employee, shall permit any indecent, immoral or profane language, or indecent, immoral or disorderly conduct such as would constitute criminal activity under the laws of the state.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to maintain order on the licensed premises at all times.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-409(d)(i), (g); Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3.10(D), (1), (G))
Sec. 4-16. - Gambling and gambling devices not permitted.
Nothing in this chapter shall in any way be construed to authorize, license or permit any gambling devices whatsoever or any mechanism which has been judicially determined to be a gambling device or in any way contrary to law or that may be contrary to any future law of the state. Gambling shall be prohibited. Gambling shall not be permitted, nor shall the use, possession or presence of gambling paraphernalia in the premises be permitted. The winning of anything of value as a result of the operation of a machine, as well as other acts, shall constitute gambling.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, §§ 61-402, 61-409(d)(ii); Ord. of 3-18-85, §§ 3.2, 3.10(D)(2))
Sec. 4-17. - Use of drugs.
No operator or licensee shall permit the possession or use of any unlawful drug or narcotic, including marijuana, on the premises.
(Ord. of 10-23-84, § 61-409(d)(iv); Ord. of 3-18-85, § 3.10(D)(2))
