Chapter 15 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE

Sec. 15-1. - Definition.
Any person shall be deemed doing business in the county when operating a passenger-carrying vehicle from a fixed terminal located in the unincorporated area of the county or when soliciting passengers within the unincorporated area of the county who have or have not requested transportation by telephone or personal command.
Sec. 15-2. - Scope of chapter.
Taxicabs, limousines and other passenger-carrying vehicles (hereinafter referred to as passenger-carrying vehicles) are those vehicles regulated by this chapter.
Sec. 15-3. - License—Required.
No person shall conduct the business of operating a passenger-carrying vehicle in the unincorporated area of the county without having first applied for and obtained a license under the provisions of this chapter. All licenses shall expire March thirty-first of each year and are not transferable.
Sec. 15-4. - Same—Application; fees as fixed; insurance required; registration of vehicles; change of vehicles.
Application for a passenger-carrying vehicle license may be obtained at the permit office. An application for a license shall be accompanied by a fee as prescribed from time to time by the board of commissioners, on file in the office of the clerk, for each vehicle operated. The application shall also be accompanied by proof of motor vehicle insurance covering public liability and property damage issued by an insurance company approved by the state. Such insurance shall insure passengers and third persons against personal injury and property damage in amounts complying with state law. Such proof of insurance must evidence that all motor vehicles used for passenger conveyance operated by the licensee are insured as required by state law. Applicants and licensees shall register all vehicles operated with the permit office and shall provide the permit office with information as to the equipment actually in service. Licensed, registered vehicles may be exchanged or transferred with the approval of the permit office and the subsequent filing of a new or updated list of equipment in service.
Sec. 15-5. - Permit—Required for operators and drivers.
No passenger-carrying vehicle license shall be issued before a permit has been issued. The permit application shall be filed by the license applicant with the sheriff's office. That office shall complete a criminal background investigation of the applicant. In addition, all passenger-carrying vehicle drivers operating in the unincorporated area of the county must file a permit application with the sheriff's office and have a criminal record check completed before being issued an operator's permit.
Sec. 15-6. - Same—Fees as fixed.
The schedule of permit fees, as adopted from time to time by the board of commissioners, shall be posted in the permit office.
Sec. 15-7. - Same—Termination when erroneously issued.
All permits issued through administrative error or an error in the completion of a background investigation may be terminated by the permit office.
Sec. 15-8. - Same—Perjury or misrepresentation on application.
Any acts of perjury or misrepresentation on a license or permit application shall result in the denial of such application or the revocation of the license or permit.
Sec. 15-9. - Same—Expiration; posting.
(a)
All operator permits expire March thirty-first of each year and are not transferable.
(b)
All operators must post their permit in public view within the interior of the vehicle.
Sec. 15-10. - Qualifications of applicant.
No license or permit shall be issued unless the applicant:
(1)
Is at least twenty-one (21) years of age;
(2)
Has not been convicted, been on probation, parole, or been imprisoned within a period of five (5) years previous to the date of application for the violation of any of the following criminal offenses of this state or of any other state, or of the United States: homicide; rape; aggravated battery; burglary; aggravated assault; kidnapping; robbery; driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol; child molestation; criminal solicitation to commit any of these listed offenses; attempt to commit any of these listed offenses; any felony where a motor vehicle was used; any crime of violence or theft; any crime of possession, sale or distribution of illegal drugs; any crime of moral turpitude. First offender status is recognized.
Sec. 15-11. - Suspension or revocation of license or permit.
A license or permit may be suspended or revoked by the permit office where the applicant has furnished fraudulent or untruthful information in the application for a license or permit; for failure to pay all fees, taxes or other charges imposed under the provisions of this chapter; for conviction of a violation of any other the provision of this chapter.
Sec. 15-12. - Vehicle markings; filing of rates.
(a)
Each passenger-carrying vehicle shall have plainly printed on each side thereof the name of the licensed person operating the vehicle and shall have printed on the rear of the vehicle an identification number not less than five (5) inches in height.
(b)
A schedule of rates and hours of operation shall be filed with the permit office by the licensee and posted in a place plainly visible to passengers within the vehicle.
Sec. 15-13. - Cruising.
No passenger solicitation shall be done while cruising. "Cruising" as used herein is defined as moving about the streets of the unincorporated area of the county for the purpose of picking up and transporting passengers who have not previously requested such service by telephone or personal command.
Sec. 15-14. - Parking; record of calls; receipts.
No passenger-carrying vehicle shall be parked in the unincorporated area of the county except at its licensed terminus or such other places as may be designated for that purpose by the permit office. Records shall be kept of all calls and receipts shall be provided upon request of any passenger.
