ARTICLE IV.5. - MOSQUITO CONTROL

Sec. 34-140. - Purpose.
It is the intent of this article to control and reduce the mosquito population in the City of Jonesboro by removing, draining, treating, altering, or otherwise eliminating all breeding sources for mosquitoes. The city shall establish an effective program of mosquito control including, but not limited to, elimination of or treatment of breeding sources for mosquitoes, elimination of identified mosquito populations, and alleviation of all other such conditions found to be conducive to the reproduction or continued existence of mosquitoes. This shall be accomplished through the processes of education and public information, conference, conciliation, persuasion, and these having failed, by administrative and judicial proceedings for the explicit purpose of controlling the breeding of mosquitoes, the presence of which constitute a danger to the public health, impair the comfort and convenience of the residents, and jeopardize the enjoyment of life and property within the city.
(Ord. No. 04-19, § 1, 8-9-2004)
Sec. 34-141. - Definitions.
[As used in this article, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following words or phrases shall have the following meanings:]
Artificial container means any bucket, barrel, tire, bottle, tub, tank, gutter, bird bath, swimming pool, ornamental pond, flower pot, jar, retention pond, or any other such manmade items capable of collecting water.
Breeding source means any area capable of sustaining the reproduction of mosquitoes.
City council means the Jonesboro City Council.
Director means the person designated by the city council to administer and enforce this article or his/her authorized designee.
Evidence of mosquito breeding means the natural presence of mosquito larva, pupa, or their remains.
Insecticide means a chemical agent which kills or prevents the reproduction of insects.
Larva means the immature, fully aquatic stage of mosquito development in which the insect appears as a small, wingless, worm-like form.
Larvicide means a chemical agent which kills or prevents the reproduction of mosquito larvae.
Mosquito means a small, long-legged, two-winged insect of the family Culicidae, in which the female of the species is distinguished by a long proboscis for sucking blood.
Occupant means the person who has the use of or occupies any building or any part thereof, or who has the use or possession, actual or constructive, of the premises whether the owner or tenant. In the case of vacant buildings or vacant portions of a building, or in case of occupancy in whole or in part by the owner, the owner shall be deemed to be and shall have the responsibilities of an occupant of such building.
Owner means the person owning the building or premises.
Person means individuals, firms, partnerships, associations, public or private institutions, municipalities, political subdivisions of the state, governmental agencies, or public or private corporations.
Premises means a parcel of real property, including all buildings and structures located thereon.
Pupa means the immature, fully aquatic stage of mosquito development immediately following the larval stage and preceding the adult form in which the insect appears as a small, wingless, worm-like shape with a greatly enlarged head.
(Ord. No. 04-19, § 1, 8-9-2004)
Sec. 34-142. - General provisions.
All premises within the city shall be maintained in such a manner as to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes on the premises. Artificial containers, ditches, streams, flooded areas, retention ponds, and all other such sources of standing water or other liquid where mosquitoes are breeding, must be removed, drained, treated, altered, maintained, or otherwise eliminated by the person occupying the premises or, in the absence of an occupant, by the owner, in such a manner as to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. Where there is evidence of mosquito breeding, effective methods of eliminating and treating mosquito breeding sources shall be instigated by the person occupying the premises, or in the absence of an occupant, by the owner, within 48 hours after discovering or being informed of the evidence of mosquito breeding on the premises.
(Ord. No. 04-19, § 1, 8-9-2004)
Sec. 34-143. - Methods of eliminating and treating mosquito breeding sources.
Breeding sources for mosquitoes shall be eliminated or treated by one or more of the following methods as shall be approved by the director.
(1)
Draining, removing, or otherwise eliminating the breeding source.
(2)
Completely emptying the breeding source of all water at least every seven days, or as approved by the director. Where an artificial container is a water basin (e.g. swimming pool) designed to hold water, such containers shall be maintained or altered to prevent mosquito breeding.
(3)
Treating the breeding source with an effective insecticide and/or larvicide approved by the director.
(4)
Completely emptying artificial containers of all liquid and storing in an enclosed structure which is constructed in such a manner as to prevent the permanent collection of liquid in said containers.
(5)
Maintain all natural or manmade storm or surface water drain ways in a manner as to prevent the ponding of water sufficient to provide breeding for mosquitoes.
(6)
Other methods proven to be effective in controlling mosquitoes and as approved by the director.
(Ord. No. 04-19, § 1, 8-9-2004)
Sec. 34-144. - Right of entry—Inspection.
The director shall have the right of entry upon any premises where entry is necessary to carry out the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 04-19, § 1, 8-9-2004)
Sec. 34-145. - Penalties and remedies.
(a)
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, punished by a fine not to exceed ($1,000.00).
(b)
The city may bring a civil proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this article in accordance with the general nuisance law of the state.
(c)
Any person who violates any provision of this article and is convicted shall be liable to the city of all costs and fees incurred by it in the enforcement of this article including, but not limited to, attorneys' fees. The city shall be entitled to a lien against the property of the violator that was the subject of the enforcement proceedings for its costs incurred.
(Ord. No. 04-19, § 1, 8-9-2004)
Secs. 34-146—34-199. - Reserved.
