Sec. 86-122. - NAICS 62441, 6244—Child day care.
modified
Day care center means any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution, or group wherein are received, for pay, for group care for fewer than 24 hours per day without transfer of legal custody, with 19 or more children under 18 years of age.
Group day care home means any place operated by any person or group wherein are received for pay not less than seven nor more than 18 children under 18 years of age for care and supervision for less than 24 hours per day.
Day care centers and group day care homes may be permitted as a conditional use in a CCM, H-2, O&I, C-1, C-2 or MX district, subject to the following conditions:
(1)
Every child day care facility shall provide proof of an approved Georgia Department of Human Services registration certificate prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy, and shall conform to all applicable local, state, and federal standards, including Bright From the Start current program standards, Ga. R. Reg. § 591-1-1, et. seq. An on-site outdoor play area is required, subject to the following minimum standards:
a.
Size requirements.
1.
For centers with a licensed capacity of 19 or more children first licensed after March 1, 1991, the center shall provide or have ready access to an outdoor play area. The minimum size of the outdoor area must be equal to 100 square feet times one-third of the center's licensed capacity for children.
2.
For centers with a licensed capacity of 18 or fewer children first licensed after April 21, 1991, the center shall provide or have ready access to an outdoor play area. The minimum size of the outdoor area must be equal to 100 square feet times the center's licensed capacity for children.
b.
Playground occupancy. At least 100 square feet shall be available for each child occupying the outside play area at any one time. Groups of children may be rotated if necessary so that 100 square feet per child is provided at all times.
c.
Location. Playgrounds shall be adjacent to the center or in an area which can be reached by a safe route or method approved by the department. Except in school-age centers, the playground shall have shaded areas.
d.
Fence or approved barriers. Playgrounds shall be protected from traffic or other hazards by a four-foot or higher secure fence or other barrier approved by this department. Fencing material shall not present a hazard to children and shall be maintained so as to prevent children from leaving the playground area by any means other than through an approved access route. Fence gates shall be kept closed except when persons are entering or exiting the area.
e.
Playground surfaces. Except in school-age centers, the playground shall have a surface suitable for varied activities. Hard surfaces, such as gravel, concrete, or paving shall not exceed one-fourth of the total playground area.
f.
Equipment. Playground equipment shall provide an opportunity for the children to engage in a variety of experiences and shall be age-appropriate. For example, toddlers shall not be permitted to swing in swings designed for school-age children. The outdoor equipment shall be free of lead-based paint, sharp corners and shall be regularly maintained in such a way as to be free of rust and splinters that could pose significant safety hazard to the children. All equipment shall be arranged so as not to obstruct supervision of children.
g.
Anchoring of certain equipment. Climbing and swinging equipment shall be anchored.
h.
Fall zones and surfacing. Climbing and swinging equipment shall have a resilient surface beneath the equipment and the fall zone from such equipment must be adequately maintained by the center to assure continuing resiliency.
i.
Safety and upkeep of playground. Playgrounds shall be kept clean, free from litter and free of hazards, such as but not limited to rocks, exposed tree roots and exposed sharp edges of concrete.
(2)
Off-street parking and/or drop-off space adequate to meet the needs of the proposed facility shall be provided. No on-street parking shall be permitted in conjunction with any child day care facility. Mayor and council may attach conditions to an approval or may deny approval of a child day care facility upon finding that the proposed facility is within 500 feet of an establishment licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages or within 500 feet of potentially hazardous land uses or activities that present unacceptable risks to operation of a child day care facility. "Potentially hazardous land uses or activities" include, but are not limited to, gasoline service stations, heavy industrial operations, storage of flammable materials, high pressure underground pipelines or truck or rail loading areas.
Mayor and council may attach conditions to an approval or may deny approval of a child day care facility upon a finding that traffic conditions present unacceptable risks to operation of the facility and/or the safety of children proposed to be served by the facility or that traffic impacts associated with the proposed facility would substantially jeopardize the appropriate use of neighboring properties.
(Ord. No. 2019-003 , § 1, 2-11-2019; Ord. No. 2019-011 , § 1, 6-3-2019; Ord. No. 2021-014 , § 1(Exh. A), 6-14-2021; Ord. No. 2022-009 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-14-2022)
