ARTICLE IV. - NOISE[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Limits on sound volume produced by radio, tape player or other mechanical sound-making device or instrument from within motor vehicle, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-14; sale of muffler which causes excessive noise prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-71(c).

Sec. 34-121. - Loud and unnecessary noises; enumeration; applicability of section provisions.
(a)
The creation of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the city is prohibited. Noise of such character, intensity and duration, as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual, or in the disturbance of the public peace and welfare, is prohibited.
(b)
The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises, and noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
(1)
The blowing of locomotive whistles within the corporate limits of the city after 10:00 p.m. and before 7:00 a.m. and the ringing of locomotive bells while the engines are standing still, except in case of giving necessary warning signals in conformity with all laws of the state or ordinances of the city, and then only to the extent necessary. When necessary to give communication signals, such signals shall be by lights or ringing of the bell only, or by such means as will not disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(2)
The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
(3)
The playing of any radio, television, phonograph or any musical instrument in such manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, hospital or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
(4)
Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in any hospital, dwelling, hotel or any other type of residence, or of any person in the vicinity.
(5)
The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl which by causing frequent or long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity.
(6)
The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair or so loaded in such manner as to cause loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
(7)
The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper city officials.
(8)
The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motorboat engine except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(c)
None of the terms of prohibition of this section shall be applied to or enforced against:
(1)
Any vehicle of the city while engaged in necessary public business.
(2)
Excavations or repairs of bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf of the city, county or the state during the night, when the public welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during the day.
(3)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in character.
(Code 1987, § 11-1-18)
Sec. 34-122. - Sound trucks and sound-amplifying devices.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be operated in the city any sound-amplifying devices or equipment, the sound of which may be heard outside an enclosed building for any purpose whatever, whether the devices or equipment are stationary or operated from a vehicle, unless a permit has been obtained from the city council to do so.
(b)
If any person should be granted a permit, in accordance with this section and shall violate the terms and conditions of such permit, the mayor is hereby authorized to revoke the permit, and the person shall be guilty of violation of the provisions of this section, and subject to the penalties provided by section 1-12.
(Code 1987, § 11-1-19)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 74.
Sec. 34-123. - Noisy outdoor amusements; hours of operation.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of or any person employed at any place where an outdoor amusement is operated, to operate or conduct such business between the hours from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of each day, whereby noise emitting therefrom shall disturb the peace and quiet of inhabitants or occupants of any occupied building.
(Code 1987, § 11-1-20)
Cross reference— Amusements and entertainments, ch. 10.
Secs. 34-124—34-139. - Reserved.
