Chapter 22 - CEMETERIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Criminal trespass and damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-20 et seq.; disposition of unclaimed dead bodies, O.C.G.A. § 31-21-20 et seq.; abandoned cemeteries and burial grounds, O.C.G.A. § 36-72-1 et seq.; Georgia Cemetery Act of 1983, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-130 et seq.

Sec. 22-1. - Proof of ownership of lot prior to interment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to inter a human body in any city cemetery without first notifying the city and providing the following information:
(1)
Name of person to be buried;
(2)
Lot number;
(3)
Proof of ownership of lot; and
(4)
Such other information as the city may require.
(Code 1987, § 5-3-1)
Sec. 22-2. - Fees.
It shall be unlawful for any person to inter or reinter a human body in any city cemetery without first paying to the city a fee as set out in the following schedule:
(1)
Nonrefundable permit fee for opening grave.
(2)
The deposit shall be refunded upon satisfactory proof to the city that the grave site has been returned to such a manner as to be in compliance with all health laws enacted by the state, the county, or the city. In addition, such deposit shall be used to offset any damages otherwise caused by the interment.
(3)
The fees and charges referred to in this section shall be set by the city council from time to time, as they deem appropriate, and the fee schedule will be maintained by the city clerk.
(Ord. of 5-10-1993(1))
Sec. 22-3. - Damages to city property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to, either intentionally or recklessly, damage any property or personalty located on any city cemetery.
(Ord. of 5-10-1993(1))
Sec. 22-4. - City cemetery guidelines.
The following guidelines shall apply to city cemeteries:
(1)
Funeral directors are to notify city hall before interment, giving the name of the deceased and the site of burial. A $150.00 refundable deposit and a $25.00 nonrefundable deposit are required. After burial, an inspection will be made by the city to affirm that there has been no damage to adjoining lots (walls, headstones, landscape, etc.), before a refund will be given.
(2)
If lots are enclosed, the walls should be marble, gray or white granite, brick, or masonry. No loose brick, timbers, etc., shall be permitted. All plans for enclosure or walls should be submitted to city hall for review.
(3)
Trees or bushes may not be planted on lots.
(4)
If there are trees presently on the lot which would require raking leaves, such raking would be the responsibility of the owner. These lots have not been and will not be sold with a perpetual maintenance agreement.
(5)
Cemetery lot owners shall remove all faded, unsightly, or damaged artificial arrangements and all dead flowers.
(6)
There shall be no admittance to any city cemetery from dusk to dawn.
