Chapter 26 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Fire protection is a local home rule power, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, III(a)(1); authority of county to provide fire protection, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS

Sec. 26-19. - Districts created—County 3 Road Mile Station.
There is created a special fire protection district designated as "County 3 Road Mile Station Fire Protection District" (also known as District 1) which shall consist of all real property in the county located within the boundaries described in Exhibit 1.
EXHIBIT 1
COUNTY 3 ROAD MILE STATION
Beginning at the intersection of Cypress Street and Dresden Street; proceeding north on Cypress Street to Blackshear Avenue; thence running east on Blackshear Avenue to Kirkland Street; proceeding north on Kirkland Street to Warning Street; thence running west on Waring Street to Park Avenue; proceeding north on Park Avenue to Moran Avenue; turning east on Moran Avenue proceeding to U.S. 1 North; thence running north on U.S. 1 to the convergence of Jamestown Road; proceeding north on Jamestown Road to Blalock Avenue; thence running east on Blalock Avenue to Henry Street; proceeding north on Henry Street to Atwater; thence running west on Atwater Road to Seymore Road; proceeding north on Seymore Road to Huckaby Road; proceeding west on Huckaby Road to U.S. Highway 1; thence north on U.S. Highway 1 to Roberts Road; proceeding west on Roberts Road to the intersection of Roberts Road and Thigpen Road; thence running south on Thigpen Road to Highway 82; proceeding west on Highway 82 to Cooler Street; turning south across the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad tracks approximately 100 yards; proceeding east along the railroad tracks to the Georgia Power power lines; thence south running concurrently with the power lines to Crestwood Road; proceeding south on Crestwood Road to Baptist Village Road; turning southeast on Baptist Village Road proceeding to Georgia Highway 122; thence running east on Georgia Highway 122 to Augusta Avenue; proceeding north on Augusta Avenue to Milltown Road; thence east on Milltown to Stanton Avenue; proceeding north on Stanton Avenue to Gilchrist Avenue; thence east on Gilchrist Avenue to Colquit Street; then proceeding north on Colquit Street to Hampton Avenue; thence east on Hampton Avenue to Cypress Road.
(Code 1983, § 2-7-16)
Sec. 26-20. - Same—City 3 Road Mile Station.
There is created a special fire protection district designated as "City 3 Road Mile Station Fire Protection District" (also known as District 2) which shall consist of all real property located within the boundaries described in Exhibit 2.
EXHIBIT 2
CITY 3 ROAD MILE STATION
Beginning at the point where Kettle Creek crosses Georgia Highway 122; proceeding southwest on Kettle Creek to the crossing on Wadley Road; thence east on Wadley Road to New Mexico Avenue; proceeding south on New Mexico Avenue to Alabama Avenue; thence southwest on Alabama Avenue to Nevada Avenue; proceeding southeast on Nevada Avenue to Highway 84; thence running in a southeasterly direction from the intersection at Nevada Avenue and Highway 84 to the intersection of South Avenue and Eightmile Post Road; thence east on South Avenue to Fourth Avenue; thence east from the intersection and proceeding to Boggy Bay Crossing; thence running southeast along Boggy Bay Creek to The Swamp Road; proceeding north on The Swamp Road to Archer Street; proceeding east on Archer Street Extension to a point where Archer Street makes a 90-degree turn north; thence running in a northeasterly direction to the intersection of Aron Street and Donald Street; proceeding east on Aron Street to U.S. Highway 1; thence South on U.S. 1 to Osborn Road; proceeding east on Osborn Road to Pine Lane; thence north on Pine Lane to Ambrose Street; proceeding in a northeasterly direction to Highway 84; thence east on Highway 84 to Willow Road; proceeding north on Willow Road to Chapel Road; thence west on Chapel Road proceeding to Tomberlin Road to Central Avenue; turning west on Central Avenue proceeding to Seminole Trail; thence north on Seminole Trail; extending the line of Seminole Trail north to the Satilla River; thence north along the Satilla River to a point due west of the eastern end of Moran Avenue; proceeding east on Moran Avenue to the intersection of U.S. Highway 1.
(Code 1983, § 2-7-17)
Sec. 26-21. - Same—5 Road Mile County Station.
There is created a special fire protection district designated as "5 Road Mile County Station Fire Protection District" (also known as District 3) which shall consist of all real property located within the boundaries described in Exhibit 3.
EXHIBIT 3
5 ROAD MILE COUNTY STATION
Beginning at the Kettle Creek Crossing on Wadley Road, proceeding west on Wadley Road to Slash Pine Road; thence running north on Slash Pine Road and then east to Smith Road; proceeding north on Smith Road to Georgia Highway 122; thence running west on Georgia Highway 122 to Cloughs Bay Road; proceeding in a northwesterly direction on Cloughs Bay Road to U.S. Highway 82; thence running in a northwesterly direction to Mixon Road; proceeding in a northeasterly direction on Mixon Road to Pine Street; proceeding north on Pine Street and then northeast to Thigpen Road; thence running northeast on Thigpen Road to U.S. Highway 1; thence running southeast on U.S. Highway 1 to Pebble Hill Road; proceeding east on Pebble Hill Road to the Jamestown Road; thence running due east connecting to the Satilla River; proceeding in a southeasterly direction along the Satilla River to a point due east of the eastern end of Moran Avenue.
(Code 1983, § 2-7-18)
Sec. 26-22. - Same—City 5 Mile Station.
There is created a special fire protection district designated as "City 5 Mile Fire Protection District" (also known as District 4) which shall consist of all real property located within the boundaries described in Exhibit 4.
EXHIBIT 4
THE CITY 5 MILE FIRE DISTRICT
Beginning at the intersection of Smith Road and Wadley Road, running south to Highway 84; proceeding from the intersection of Smith Road and Highway 84 running in a southeasterly direction to the intersection of Eightmile Post Road and Harvey Road; thence running in a southeasterly direction to the Lee's Branch Crossing on The Swamp Road; thence running in a northeasterly direction to the intersection of Aycock Road and U.S. Highway 1; proceeding north on Aycock Road to E. R. Lynn Road; thence running east on E. R. Lynn Road to Strickland Road; proceeding southeast on Strickland Road to Morgan Road; thence running north on Morgan Road to Highway 84; thence intersecting Ware County and Brantley County line running straight north to the Satilla River; proceeding in a westerly direction along the Satilla River to a point due north of the southern end of the Seminole Trail.
(Code 1983, § 2-7-19)
Sec. 26-23. - Same—Rural district.
There is created a special fire protection district designated as Ware County Rural Fire Protection District (also known as District 5) which shall consist of all real property located in Ware County outside the corporate limits of Waycross, Georgia, and not located within Districts 1, 2, 3 and 4 in this article.
(Code 1983, § 2-7-20)
Sec. 26-24. - Taxation.
Funds to provide fire protection districts established shall be raised by levying ad valorem real property taxes against property owners within the five fire protection districts provided for in this article. The tax millage for each fire protection district shall be set each year by the board of commissioners after giving consideration to the amount of fire protection available to property owners within each fire protection district. The tax millage levied against property owners in each district shall be fairly assessed based on the amount of fire protection available to property owners within each district. The tax millage rate need not necessarily be uniform among all districts but shall be uniform within each district.
(Code 1983, § 2-7-21)
