ARTICLE X. - HOSTING PROHIBITED OF GATHERINGS WHERE THE UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF ALCOHOL BY MINORS OCCURS

Sec. 6-211. - Prohibition.
No adult having control or supervision of any residence or premises (including a motel or hotel room, home, yard, apartment, condominium, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room or other place of assembly, whether occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically for social functions and whether owned, leased, rented or used with or without compensation) shall cause or permit a social host party, gathering, or event to take place or continue at such residence or premises, if:
(1)
At such social host party, gathering, or event any minor obtains, possesses, or consumes any alcoholic beverage;
(2)
The adult knows or reasonably should know that a minor will or does possess any alcoholic beverage in violation of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23 at such social host party, gathering, or event; and
(3)
The adult fails to take reasonable steps to prevent such possession of the alcoholic beverage by such minor in violation of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. X, § 10-1)
Sec. 6-212. - Protected activities.
This article shall not apply to the following:
(1)
Legally protected religious activities;
(2)
Conduct involving the use of alcoholic beverages for medical purposes by a minor pursuant to a prescription of a physician duly authorized to practice medicine in this state; and
(3)
Conduct involving possession of alcoholic beverages for consumption by a minor when the parent or guardian of such minor gives the alcoholic beverage to such minor and when possession is in the home of the parent or guardian and such parent or guardian is present.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. X, § 10-2)
Sec. 6-213. - Prima facie evidence.
Whenever an adult having control or supervision of the residence or premises is present at that residence or premises at the time a social host party, gathering, or event is taking place and a minor or minors obtains, possesses, or consumes any alcoholic beverage at such social host party, gathering, or event, it shall be prima facie evidence that such adult had the knowledge or should have had the knowledge, that the minor or minors obtained, possessed, or consumed an alcoholic beverage at such social host party, gathering, or event.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. X, § 10-3)
Secs. 6-214—6-230. - Reserved.
