ARTICLE IV. - LICENSING

Sec. 6-51. - Licenses which may be issued under this chapter.
(a)
Retail dealer—Off premises consumption (distilled spirits).
(b)
Retail dealer—Off premises consumption (malt beverages).
(c)
Retail dealer—Off premises consumption (wine).
(d)
Retail dealer—Off premises consumption (Sunday sales).
(e)
Retail consumption dealer—Consumption on premises (distilled spirits).
(f)
Retail consumption dealer—Consumption on premises (malt beverages).
(g)
Retail consumption dealer—Consumption on premises (wine).
(h)
Retail consumption dealer—Consumption on premises (Sunday sales).
(i)
Wholesaler—Distilled spirits with warehousing in Ware County.
(j)
Wholesaler—Distilled spirits without warehousing in Ware County.
(k)
Wholesaler—Malt beverages with warehousing in Ware County.
(l)
Wholesaler—Malt beverages without warehousing in Ware County.
(m)
Wholesaler—Wine with warehousing in Ware County.
(n)
Wholesaler—Wine without warehousing in Ware County.
(o)
Alcoholic beverage catering license.
No retail dealer licensee shall hold any retail consumption dealer license for the same location, and vice versa; and no wholesale dealer licensee shall hold any retail dealer license or retail consumption dealer license for the same location.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-1)
Sec. 6-52. - Annual license and other fees.
The fees for the respective licenses, event permits, letters of authorization, and administrative fee, as provided in this chapter shall be as set out in appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-2)
Editor's note— Appendix A, as referenced above, can be found at the end of this chapter.
Sec. 6-53. - Disqualifications from licensure.
(a)
No license shall be granted under this chapter to any person for the operation of, and no person shall otherwise operate, an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages in any area prohibited by law or by zoning ordinance.
(b)
No license shall be granted under this chapter to any person for the operation of, and no person shall otherwise operate, an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages which establishment is within 300 feet of any church building. No license shall be granted under this chapter to any person for the operation of, and no person shall otherwise operate, an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of wine or malt beverages within 100 yards, or of distilled spirits within 200 yards, of any school building, educational building, school grounds, or college campus. These restrictions as to locations herein contained shall not apply to hotels, as defined herein, restaurants as defined herein, nor shall these restrictions apply to bona fide nonprofit civic organization as defined herein that have a valid license for consumption on premises. For purposes of measuring said distances, said distance shall be measured from the door of the establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of the respective alcoholic beverage to the nearest street, thence along said street to the nearest point of such church building, school building, educational building, school grounds, or college campus, as the case may be.
(c)
No license shall be granted under this chapter to any person for the operation of an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages who has been convicted, has entered a plea of nolo contendere or has forfeited a bond with respect to any felony within the last ten years; nor to any person with whom any other person listed in section 6-54(2) as associated with such person has been has been convicted, has entered a plea of nolo contendere or has forfeited a bond with respect to any felony within the last ten years. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the board of commissioners, in its sole discretion, may decide to authorize the issuance of a license to a person meeting the aforementioned criteria when, after a thorough investigation of all the facts including parole or probation officer's reports, judge's recommendations, and any other evidence bearing on the character of the applicant, it has determined, in the sole discretion of the board of commissioners, that such action is in keeping with the ends of justice and the public interest and welfare;
(d)
No license shall be granted under this chapter: (i) to any person for the operation of an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages who has been convicted within the last five years of a misdemeanor or other violation involving any of the following: gambling, the Georgia Controlled Substances Act (or similar laws of another jurisdiction), prostitution, sex offenses, adult entertainment laws, rules or regulations, alcohol control laws, rules or regulations, or offenses involving moral turpitude; (ii) to any person with whom any other person listed in section 6-54(2) as associated with such person has been convicted within the last five years of a misdemeanor or other violation involving any of the following: gambling, the Georgia Controlled Substances Act (or similar laws of another jurisdiction), prostitution, sex offenses, adult entertainment laws, rules and regulations, alcohol control laws, rules or regulations, or offenses involving moral turpitude. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the board of commissioners, in its sole discretion, may decide to authorize the issuance of a license to a person meeting the aforementioned criteria when, after a thorough investigation of all the facts including parole or probation officer's reports, judge's recommendations, and any other evidence bearing on the character of the applicant, it has determined, in the sole discretion of the board of commissioners, that such action is in keeping with the ends of justice and the public interest and welfare;
(e)
No license shall be issued under this chapter to any person who is not lawfully present in the United States or, if such person is not an individual, where the individual making the application on behalf of such person is not himself lawfully present in the United States.
(f)
No license shall be issued under this chapter to any person who is not registered to use and is using the Federal Work Authorization Program, where required of such person by O.C.G.A § 36-60-6.
(g)
No license application shall be considered by the board of commissioners for the issuance of a license for the operation of an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages where a similar application involving said license applicant or said establishment has been denied by the board within the preceding 12 months or where a license held by the said license applicant (whether for this or another establishment) or a license (whether held by said license applicant or by another licensee) for the said establishment has been revoked by the board within the preceding 12 months. (This section shall not apply to any applicant that was denied as a result of a moratorium).
(h)
No license shall be issued under this chapter for the retail sale at an establishment of any alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold where such establishment is licensed for retail sale of any alcoholic beverages for off premises consumption. Likewise, no license shall be issued under this chapter for the retail sale at an establishment of any alcoholic beverages for off premises consumption where such establishment is licensed for retail sale of any alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-3)
Sec. 6-54. - License application.
Any person desiring to obtain a license from the county pursuant to this chapter shall submit an application therefor which shall contain the following information:
(1)
The specific license being applied for.
(2)
Full name of the applicant, including any aliases, trade names, or other names under which the applicant has been known or conducted business during the past three years, and, in the case of a partnership, limited liability company, firm, association, corporation, or other non-natural person, the name of the individual or agent who shall be held responsible for compliance with the provisions of this chapter. In the event the applicant is a partnership, joint venture or firm, the names and addresses of all owners of the partnership, joint venture or firm shall be furnished. In the event the applicant is an association or corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers, directors, and the three stockholders owning the largest amounts of stock in the applicant entity shall be furnished. In the event the applicant is a limited liability company, the names and addresses of the three members owning the largest amounts of ownership interest and of, if any, its managers and principal officers shall be furnished. In the event the applicant is any other type of entity or non-natural person, the names and addresses of all the members of its governing body, officers and others having management, control, or dominion over such applicant shall be furnished.
(3)
The complete mailing and location addresses of the applicant and the location address of the establishment at which the activity for which a license hereunder is being sought will be conducted. The applicant shall also submit with the application a copy of a valid deed showing that the applicant owns the property on which the establishment to be licensed is located or a copy of a valid lease showing that the applicant has a leasehold interest sufficient for the applicant to operate a business or enterprise at the property on which the establishment is to be located involving the sale, distribution and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages of the type and in the manner for which licensure is sought.
(4)
The type of establishment to be operated and the category of alcoholic beverage related functions and activities to be conducted at such establishment.
(5)
The name and location address of each of the nearest church building, school building, educational building, school grounds, and college campus, in each case to the property on which the establishment to be licensed is located.
(6)
Whether or not the applicant, any person listed under subparagraph (2) above, or any employee in the applicant's establishment for which licensure is being sought has previously been refused a license (or a similar license from another jurisdiction). If the answer is in the affirmative, state the month and year of such refusal, the jurisdiction refusing the license, and the circumstances surrounding such refusal.
(7)
Whether or not the applicant or any person named in subparagraph (2) above, having previously obtained a license (or a similar license from another jurisdiction), has had the same suspended or revoked. If the answer is in the affirmative, state the month and year of such suspension or revocation, the jurisdiction suspending or revoking the license, and the circumstances surrounding such suspension or revocation.
(8)
Whether or not the applicant, or any person identified in subsection (2) above has been has been convicted, has entered a plea of nolo contendere or has forfeited a bond with respect to any felony within the last ten years prior to the filing of any such application.
(9)
Whether or not the applicant, or any person identified in subsection (2) above has been convicted, has entered a plea of nolo contendere or has forfeited a bond with respect to any misdemeanor within the last five years prior to the filing of any such application of other violations involving any of the following: gambling, the Georgia Controlled Substances Act (or similar laws of another jurisdiction), prostitution, sex offenses, adult entertainment laws, rules or regulations, alcohol control laws, or offenses involving moral turpitude.
(10)
Whether or not the establishment for which licensure is being sought has been licensed under this chapter (or any similar predecessor ordinance or resolution of the county regarding alcoholic beverages) during the past three years and, if so, how the applicant has or will acquire the establishment or the business operated or to be operated thereat from the current or prior licensee or owner and on what terms and conditions and, additionally, what familial, business, investment, debtor/creditor, or other relationship the applicant may have or have had during the past three years with any such current or former licensee or owner, and in each case any person identified in subsection (2) above with respect thereto, of the establishment for which licensure is sought.
(11)
A consent statement executed by the applicant that all necessary investigation reports on the applicant, any person identified in subsection (2) above, or any employees in the applicant's establishment for which licensure is being sought including, but not limited to, credit reports and reports from law enforcement agencies, may be obtained; that any information in such reports may be furnished to the licensor; and that applicant will be responsible for the cost thereof. If so requested by licensor, applicant shall also obtain such consent forms therefore, as the case may be, from each person identified in subsection (2) above and each employee who will be employed in applicant's establishment for which licensure is being sought. Licensor shall require fingerprinting of applicant, each person identified in subsection (2) above for an initial license for the purposes of conducting its investigation with respect to application for an initial license. Licensor may require fingerprinting of applicant, each of applicant's such employees for the purposes of conducting its investigation with respect to application for a license renewal.
(12)
Prior to issuance or renewal of any license, event permit (pursuant to section 6-152), or letter of authorization (pursuant to section 6-155), as the case may be, the applicant therefore shall provide to the county with such application therefore: (i) in order to verify the applicant's (or the individual making the application on behalf of the applicant) lawful presence in the United States, the applicant shall submit the signed and sworn affidavit required by O.C.G.A. § 50-36-1(e)(2) and at least one "secure and verifiable document" as defined in O.C.G.A. § 50-36-2(b)(3), and (ii) in order to verify the applicant's registration with and utilization of the Federal Work Authorization Program as defined in and required by O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6 that the applicant is authorized to use such Federal Work Authorization Program (or evidence that it is not required by O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6 to use such program), the applicant shall submit the signed and sworn affidavit required by O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6.
(13)
The accuracy and completeness of the information, documents and statements contained in said application or submitted as a part thereof or supplementary thereto shall be sworn to by or on behalf of the applicant before a notary public or other person authorized to administer oaths.
(14)
The applicant shall attach, with the application, certified funds in the amount of the administrative fee plus the annual license fee in the amounts set forth in appendix A for the license for which application is being made.
(15)
The applicant shall submit such further information as the county shall request having a reasonable relationship to the consideration of the desirability of the issuance to applicant of the license sought.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-4)
Sec. 6-55. - Submission of application; payment of fee with application.
Applications for the license and accompanying administrative fee and annual license fee shall be submitted to the Ware County Planning and Codes Department. If an application is denied by the board of commissioners, the license fee, less the administrative fee, shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-5)
Sec. 6-56. - Reporting disciplinary actions
The governmental entity shall notify the Department of Revenue of the details of a disciplinary action, including the date such action was taken, the nature of such action, and any other information required by the department, using a format to be determined by the Department of Revenue.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-6)
Sec. 6-57. - Considerations for license grant.
In determining the question of the granting or refusal of the license applied for hereunder, the board shall consider: the location of the establishment for which licensure is being sought; the uses of the property surrounding the property at which the establishment will be operated for which licensure is being sought; the current zoning of the property at which the establishment will be operated for which licensure is being sought; the integrity of the applicant, his business co-owners, directors and officers, and his employees at the establishment for which licensure is being sought; the criminal convictions, if any, of the applicant, his business co-owners, directors and officers, or his employees at the establishment for which licensure is being sought for the violation of any criminal statutes; the number of times in the past three years licenses under this chapter have been issued for the establishment for which licensure is being sought; the violation(s), if any, of this chapter (or any similar predecessor ordinance or resolution of the county regarding alcoholic beverages) or the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code occurring at the establishment for which licensure is being sought during the past three years; whether the applicant (or the individual making the application on behalf of the applicant) is lawfully present in the United States; whether the applicant is registered to use and is using the Federal Work Authorization Program; the bona fides and arm's length nature of the acquisition of the establishment for which licensure is being sought by applicant from the existing or prior owner and/or licensee of such establishment; and, the accuracy and completeness of the application and the information, documents and statements submitted as a part thereof or supplementary thereto, for the license applied for.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-7)
Sec. 6-58. - License duration; license fee proration; when fee is due.
Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall automatically expire on December 31 of the year of its issuance, but may be renewed on an annual basis for each subsequent calendar year by making application for renewal to the county and paying the annual license fee. The license fee for an initial license shall be prorated as follows: the license fee for an initial license issued during the first calendar quarter of the calendar year shall be 100 percent of the annual license fee; the license fee for an initial license issued during the second calendar quarter of the calendar year shall be 75 percent of the annual license fee; the license fee for an initial license issued during the third calendar quarter of the calendar year shall be 50 percent of the annual license fee; and the license fee for an initial license issued during the fourth calendar quarter of the calendar year shall be 25 percent of the annual license fee. There shall be no proration of the administrative fee. There shall be no proration of the annual license fee paid for the renewal of a license. There will be a late fee if the current license, other than an initial license, is purchased after January 1. The late fee assessed shall be $50.00.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-8)
Sec. 6-59. - Duties of licensee.
As a condition subsequent to the granting of a license pursuant to this chapter and the possession and use thereof, compliance with the following provisions shall be mandatory:
(1)
Licenses granted hereunder shall be prominently displayed in the licensee's establishment to which such license relates, and shall be, together with said establishment, subject to inspection at any time by the county or any law enforcement agency having jurisdiction of the location and activities of licensee's establishment.
(2)
Licensee shall not employ in the operation of said establishment any person who has been convicted of a felony. No person shall allow or require a person in his employment under 18 years of age to dispense, serve, sell, or take orders for any alcoholic beverages. This Code section shall not prohibit persons under 18 years of age who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores, breweries, or drugstores from selling or handling alcoholic beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises.
Within 45 days of any disciplinary action, the licensee shall notify the department of the details of such disciplinary action, including the date such action was taken, the nature of such action, and any other information required by the department, using a format to be determined by the department.
No person shall allow or require an individual under the age of 21 to serve as a bouncer on a premises or in an establishment where alcoholic beverages are dispensed, served, or sold pursuant to a license issued under this title.
(3)
No individual under the age of 21 shall enter or be allowed to enter a bar unless he or she is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or spouse who is 21 years of age or older. This subsection shall not apply to an individual while he or she is attending a live musical concert or live presentation of the performing arts for which he or she has paid an admission charge.
(4)
Licensee shall not employ in the operation of said establishment any person who has been convicted within the last five years of a misdemeanor or other offense involving any of the following: gambling, the Georgia Controlled Substances Act (or similar laws of another jurisdiction), prostitution, sex offenses, adult entertainment laws, rules or regulations, alcohol control laws, rules or regulations, or offenses involving moral turpitude.
(5)
The sale, distribution, and on premises consumption of alcoholic beverages, as the case may be, at said establishment shall each be in compliance with the laws of the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Act, as amended, O.C.G.A. tit. 3, and the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by the Georgia Department of Revenue.
(6)
The licensed establishment and its operation shall at all times comply with all applicable county ordinances and resolutions (including without limitation this chapter and the county's noise ordinance), together with all applicable state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
(7)
Upon issuance or renewal of any license, event permit (pursuant to section 6-152) or letter of authorization (pursuant to section 6-155), as the case may be, during the term thereof the licensee, or person to whom such event permit or letter of authorization is issued shall utilize the Federal Work Authorization Program as required by O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6.
(8)
Licensee shall pay the annual license fee for renewal of such license for the immediately succeeding year before January 1 of such succeeding calendar year.
(9)
No person shall manufacture, use, offer for use, purchase, offer to purchase, sell, offer to sell, or possess powdered alcohol.
(10)
No person licensed or issued a permit pursuant to this title shall use powdered alcohol as an alcoholic beverage or use powdered alcohol to create an alcoholic beverage.
(11)
This Code section shall not apply to the use of powdered alcohol for bona fide research purposes by a:
a.
Health care provider that operates primarily for the purpose of conducting scientific research;
b.
State institution;
c.
Private college or university; or
d.
Pharmaceutical or biotechnology company.
(12)
Any person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(13)
Any violation of this Code section by a person licensed or issued a permit pursuant to this title shall constitute grounds for the suspension and revocation of any and all of such licenses and permits issued to such person.
(14)
The holder of a license to sell liquor shall post in the most conspicuous place in his establishment a sign printed in letters at least four inches high reading as follows: "Sale of Liquor to A Person Under 21 Is Strictly Prohibited."
(15)
No licensee shall give, sell or offer to sell any liquor to any person who is under the age of 21 years, or, who is noticeably intoxicated, or who is of unsound mind, or who is a habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to said retailer. At any time, a state driver's license or government issued ID shall be considered the only legal proof of age which would relieve a person making a sale from responsibility thereof.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-9)
Sec. 6-60. - Revocation.
(a)
Failure of licensee to comply with any of the following provisions of this subsection (a) shall be grounds for revocation of the license granted to licensee under this chapter.
(1)
Conviction of licensee, or of any owner, officer or director of the licensee, of a felony.
(2)
Conviction within the last five years of licensee, or of any owner, officer or director of the licensee, of a misdemeanor or other violation involving any of the following: gambling, the Georgia Controlled Substance Act (or similar statutes of another jurisdiction), prostitution, sex offenses, adult entertainment laws, rules and regulations, alcohol control laws, rules or regulations, or offenses involving moral turpitude.
(3)
Failure of the licensee to be lawfully present in the United States.
(4)
Failure of the licensee or the licensed establishment to comply at all times with each of the requirements of section 6-59.
(5)
A material misstatement or omission in the licensee's application or in the information and statements submitted as a part thereof or supplementary thereto.
(b)
Upon information to the county concerning violation of any of the provisions outlined in subsection (a), the board shall serve notice upon licensee, by registered or certified mail addressed to licensee's establishment, requiring him to appear before the board and show cause why his license should not be revoked. Such hearing shall not be held sooner than five business days from the giving of such notice, and shall set forth with particularity the date, time and place of the hearing on said matter; such notice shall also state the alleged noncompliance which could, if sustained, result in revocation of licensee's license.
(c)
Within five business days of the hearing on such matter, the board shall render a decision on the matter, notifying licensee in writing of its decision by registered or certified mail addressed to the licensee's establishment or by personally delivering the same to licensee. In the event of a revocation, no rebate shall be made of any portion of any license fee paid.
(d)
After revocation of any license granted hereunder, no person formerly holding such license, shall operate an establishment for which a license is required by this chapter without again having obtained a valid license.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-10)
Sec. 6-61. - Return of license fee.
When a license applicant applies for and is issued an initial license and that applicant does not operate any establishment pursuant to the issued license, the license fee (but not the administrative fee) for such license may be returned to the applicant. (The annual license fee paid for a renewal of a license shall not be refundable.) All requests for such return must be made by the applicant in writing to the Ware County Planning and Codes Department within 30 days of the date the license is issued.
To receive a return of the license fee, the applicant must not have used the license to conduct any business or activity allowed by the license whatsoever. The board of commissioners shall review each request for a license fee return and make a determination as to whether or not the license fee shall be returned. The board of commissioners may consider how long the license holder held the license, whether or not the license holder conducted any business or activity under the license, and whether or not the request for license fee return is timely filed.
Should the board of commissioners grant such request to return the license fee, such license thereupon shall then be null and void and, upon return to the Ware County Planning and Codes Department of the original such license, the license fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-11)
Sec. 6-62. - Report on state taxes; records of delivery.
(a)
Each licensee who is a wholesale dealer shall furnish monthly to the county in writing the amount of state alcoholic beverage taxes paid by each retailer and retail consumption dealer in the unincorporated area of the county to such wholesale dealer for all alcoholic beverages delivered to such retailer and retail consumption dealer by such wholesale dealer during each calendar month. Such report shall be made on forms promulgated by the county or at the discretion of the county, such report may be made in the form of duplicate copies of the wholesaler dealer's invoices. Such report shall be delivered to the finance director not later than the tenth day of each calendar month following the month of delivery of said alcoholic beverages by such wholesale dealer.
(b)
Each licensee who is a wholesale dealer shall maintain for a period of at least 12 months records of all deliveries of alcoholic beverages by such wholesale dealer to each retailer or retail consumption dealer in the unincorporated area of the county, which records shall include copies of the wholesaler dealer's invoices accompanying said deliveries. Each such wholesale dealer shall make available to the county all such records upon request.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. IV, § 4-12)
Secs. 6-63—6-75. - Reserved.
