ARTICLE VII. - CATERED FUNCTIONS AND NON-PROFIT CHARITABLE AND CIVIC SPECIAL EVENTS

Sec. 6-151. - Alcoholic beverage catering license.
(a)
Any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer who additionally holds a valid license from the county to sell alcoholic beverages at retail for consumption on or off of the premises where sold may be issued by the county an alcoholic beverage catering license which authorizes such licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to sell within the unincorporated area of the county such alcoholic beverages (but only the types of alcoholic beverages which its such license(s) to sell at retail otherwise permits) by the drink for consumption off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function as provided in O.C.G.A. § 3-11-3 and pursuant to an event permit as provided in section 6-152 of this chapter.
(b)
A licensed alcoholic beverage caterer who desires an alcoholic beverage catering license from the county shall submit an application for such license pursuant to article IV of this chapter.
(c)
Each licensed alcoholic beverage caterer issued an alcoholic beverage catering license by the county shall pay the county an annual license fee per calendar year in the amount set forth on appendix A.
(d)
Any alcoholic beverage catering license issued hereunder shall automatically expire on December 31 of the year of its issuance but may be renewed on an annual basis for each subsequent calendar year by making application for renewal to the county and paying the annual license fee.
(e)
A licensed alcoholic beverage caterer may sell pursuant to its alcoholic beverage catering license only such alcoholic beverages as are authorized by such license and then only in conjunction with and pursuant to a valid event permit from the county.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. VII, § 7-1)
Sec. 6-152. - Event permit.
(a)
In order to distribute or sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wine at an authorized catered function in unincorporated Ware County, a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall obtain from the county an event permit as required by O.C.G.A. § 3-11-3. The application for the event permit shall be made to the Ware County Planning and Codes. Such application shall include the name of the licensed alcoholic beverage caterer; the date, location address, and specific times of the event; and be accompanied by a copy of the applicant's alcoholic beverage catering license. The applicant shall submit with the application for each event permit the affidavits and other documents required by section 6-54(12).
(b)
Any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer whose alcoholic beverage catering license is issued by the county shall pay the county an event permit fee in the amount set forth in appendix A for each event permit issued by the county. Any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer whose alcoholic beverage catering license is issued by a municipality or another county in Georgia shall pay the county an administrative fee for each event permit issued by the county.
(c)
The original of the event permit shall be kept in the vehicle transporting the alcoholic beverages to the authorized catered function.
(d)
It is unlawful for a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to distribute or sell alcoholic beverages off premises in unincorporated Ware County except in connection with an authorized catered function within the scope of the event permit required by and issued pursuant to this chapter.
(e)
The event permit required by this chapter will be valid only for the authorized catered function for which it was issued. The licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall apply for and be issued a separate event permit for each authorized catered function.
(f)
Event permits required by this chapter shall be issued on behalf of Ware County by the Ware County Planning and Codes Department.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. VII, § 7-2)
Sec. 6-153. - Restrictions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to employ any individual under the age of 21 to dispense, sell or handle alcoholic beverages at an authorized catered function in unincorporated Ware County.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to distribute or sell alcoholic beverages during any hours in which the sale at retail of such alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises is not permitted in unincorporated Ware County.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. VII, § 7-3)
Sec. 6-154. - Food caterers.
It shall be unlawful for any food caterer to distribute or sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wine within unincorporated Ware County off of the premises of the food caterer's business without an alcoholic beverage catering license.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. VII, § 7-4)
Sec. 6-155. - Nonprofit civic organizations.
A bona fide nonprofit civic organization desiring to sell or distribute alcoholic beverages at a special event within unincorporated Ware County shall apply to Ware County for a letter of authorization for the event. The applicant shall submit with the application for such letter of authorization the affidavits and other documents required by section 6-54(12). Upon obtaining such letter of authorization, such applicant must then apply for and obtain a permit from the Georgia Department of Revenue authorizing the organization to sell or distribute alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption only on the premises of the event, or to sell wine at retail for off-premises consumption, or both, for a period not to exceed three days. No more than six such letters of authorization may be issued to an organization in any one calendar year pursuant to this section. Upon obtaining such letter of authorization from the county and such Department of Revenue permit, the organization may sell or distribute alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption only on the premises of the event in unincorporated Ware County, only at the location and for the period provided for in such letter of authorization and Department of Revenue permit, and only in accordance with the other terms, conditions and restrictions in and governing such letter of authorization and Department of Revenue permit. Letters of authorization required by this section shall be issued on behalf of the county by the Ware County Planning and Codes Department. Such letters of authorization shall be valid only for the place or location specified therein, and shall authorize such sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages only during the hours in which the sale at retail of such alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold is otherwise permitted in unincorporated Ware County.
(Ord. of 12-12-2016, art. VII, § 7-5)
Secs. 6-156—6-170. - Reserved.
