Chapter 1-6 - TAXATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1-6-1. - Promotion of industry.
Provided, however, that Ware County is authorized to levy a tax in addition to those already provided for by law, not to exceed one mill, on all the taxable property in the county, for the purpose of acquiring and creating a fund to be set aside and used exclusively in assisting, promoting and encouraging the location of new industries in Ware County; and the county officials of said county are authorized to select a committee of citizens of the county to set [sic] with them and advise with them in the handling and disbursement of such funds for the purposes stated.
(1937 Ga. Laws, (Res. Act No. 13), page 1129, § 1; 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 879), page 3904, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment to the 1945 Ga. Const., art. VII, § VI, ¶ II, was continued in force and effect by an action of the board of commissioners on November 5, 1985.
Sec. 1-6-2. - Homestead exemption on county taxes for residents by special act.
(a)
As used in this [section], the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for county purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for county purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of Ware County, including but not limited to any ad valorem taxes for special district purposes and to pay interest on and to retire county bond indebtedness.
(2)
"Base year" means the taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year in which the exemption under [this section] is first granted to the most recent owner of such homestead.
(3)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A., with the additional qualification that it shall include only the primary residence and not more than five contiguous acres of land immediately surrounding such residence.
(b)
Each resident of Ware County is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Ware County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in an amount equal to the amount by which the current year assessed value of that homestead exceeds the base year assessed value of the homestead. This exemption shall not apply to taxes assessed on improvements to the homestead or additional land that is added to the homestead after January 1 of the base year. If any real property is removed from the homestead, the base year assessed value shall be adjusted to reflect such removal and the exemption shall be recalculated accordingly. The value of that property in excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section unless the person or person's agent files an application with the tax commissioner of Ware County giving such information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption.
(d)
The tax commissioner of Ware County shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section which shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
(e)
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year so long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. After a person has filed the proper application as provided in subsection (c) of this section, it shall not be necessary to make application thereafter for any year and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under subsection (b) of this section to notify the tax commissioner of the county or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
(f)
The exemption granted by this [section] shall not apply to or affect state ad valorem taxes, county or independent school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes, or municipal ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes. The homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other homestead exemption applicable to county ad valorem taxes for county purposes.
(2001 Ga. Laws (Act No. 64), page 3740, § 1)
Sec. 1-6-3. - Homestead exemption on county taxes for senior citizens by special act.
(a)
For purposes of this [section], the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for county purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for county purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of Ware County, but not including taxes to pay interest on and to retire bonded indebtedness.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A.
(3)
"Income" means adjusted gross income as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, from all sources.
(4)
"Senior citizen" means a person who is 62 years of age or over on or before January 1 of the year in which application for the exemption under this [section] is made.
(b)
Each resident of Ware County who is a senior citizen is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Ware County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in the amount of $20,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead, if that person's income, together with the income of the spouse of such person who resides within such homestead, does not exceed $24,000.00 for the immediately preceding taxable year. The value of that property in excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection [(b)] of this section unless the person or person's agent files an affidavit with the tax commissioner of Ware County giving the person's age, and the amount of income which the person and the person's spouse residing within such homestead received during the last taxable year, and such additional information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose.
(d)
The tax commissioner of Ware County or the designee thereof shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by [this section] and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
(e)
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. After a person has filed the proper affidavit as provided in subsection [(c)] of this [section], it shall not be necessary to make application and file such affidavit thereafter for any year, and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this [section] to notify the tax commissioner of Ware County or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption. Any person who, as of January 1, 1998, has applied for and is eligible for the $4,000.00 homestead exemption from county ad valorem taxes pursuant to Code Section 48-5-47 of the O.C.G.A. shall be eligible for the exemption granted by this [section] without further application if that person has applied for and been eligible for the immediately preceding year for such exemption.
(f)
The exemption granted by this [section] shall not apply to or affect any state taxes, municipal taxes, independent school district taxes, or Ware County school district taxes for educational purposes. The homestead exemption granted by this [section] shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other homestead exemption applicable to Ware County ad valorem taxes for county purposes.
(1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 939), page 4546, §§ 1—5)
Secs. 1-6-4—1-6-15. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAX COMMISSIONER[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— County tax officials, O.C.G.A.§ 48-5-101 et seq.

Sec. 1-6-16. - Office created.
The offices of Tax Receiver and Tax Collector of Ware County are hereby consolidated and combined into the one office of the Tax Commissioner of Ware County. The rights, duties and liabilities of the Tax Commissioner, except as otherwise provided herein, shall be the same as those imposed upon Tax Receivers and Tax Collectors by the laws of this State.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 927), page 2405, § 1)
Sec. 1-6-17. - Funds collected; salary in lieu of fees, etc.
All fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments and perquisites of whatever kind received and collected by the Tax Commissioner shall be received, collected and held by him as public funds belonging to Ware County. Once each month the Tax Commissioner shall turn over to the fiscal authority of said County all funds collected by him with a detailed itemized statement showing the sources from which such funds were collected. It is specifically provided that the salary provided herein for the Tax Commissioner shall be in lieu of all fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments and perquisites of whatever kind, including those commissions allowed by an Act approved March 9, 1955 (Ga. L. 1955, p. 659), as amended O.C.G.A. § 40-2-22, relating to the sale of motor vehicle license plates by local tax officials, notwithstanding the fact that such services for which the commissions are derived may have been performed in the capacity of an agent for the State Revenue Department and an Act relating to the commission on taxes collected in excess of a certain percentage of the taxes due according to the Tax Net Digest, approved January 17, 1938 (Ga. L. 1937-38, Ex. Sess., p. 297), as amended [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-180 et seq.].
(1972 Ga. Laws, (Act No. 927), page 2405, § 4)
Sec. 1-6-18. - Election; vacancies.
The first election for the office of Tax Commissioner created herein shall be held at the same time as the election of other County officers for Ware County in 1972. The person so elected shall take office on the first day of January following his election, and he shall serve until December 31, 1976, and until his successor is duly elected and qualified. All future elections for Tax Commissioner shall be held at the same time as elections for other County officers, and all future Tax Commissioners shall take office on the first day of January following their election and shall serve a term of office of four (4) years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. Should any vacancy occur in the office of Tax Commissioner, such vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of law for filling vacancies in the office of Tax Collector.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 927), page 2405, § 2)
Sec. 1-6-19. - Personnel; expenses.
(a)
The governing authority of Ware County shall have the authority to fix the number and compensation of such personnel as they shall deem necessary to assist the Tax Commissioner in discharging his official duties, but the Tax Commissioner shall have the sole right to select the individuals so employed.
(b)
All expenses incurred by the Tax Commissioner in operating and discharging the official duties of his office, except as herein provided, including, but not limited to, office equipment, supplies, fixtures and utility expenses, shall be paid by the County from County funds.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 927), page 2405, § 5)
Sec. 1-6-20. - Tax obligations continue.
All taxes due and payable to Ware County at the time the Tax Commissioner takes office shall continue to be due and payable until paid. All tax fi fas heretofore issued shall have full force and effect and shall be collectible as issued.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 927), page 2405, § 6)
