Chapter 66 - TAXATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 66-1—66-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTING TAX ON HARVESTED TIMBER

Sec. 66-19. - Notification of harvesting.
The Timber Harvesting Contractor shall give written notification to the office of the Tax Assessor of Fannin County, Georgia, within 48 hours after the startup (moving in of equipment or cutting of any trees). Said notice shall be in the following form:
Notification of Harvesting
EXPAND
Harvesting Contractor: _____
Contact Person: _____
Address: _____
City: _____ State: _____ Zip: _____
Telephone Number: _____
Landowner: _____
Directions to Property: _____
Map I.D.: _____ District: _____ Section: _____ Land Lot: _____
Beginning Date: _____ Estimated Ending Date: _____
Oral Notification of Completion Date: _____
  At the completion of harvesting of the timber identified in the above notification form, the contractor shall give oral; (phone call sufficient) notification of said completion.
(Ord. of 7-23-1996, § 1)
Sec. 66-20. - Penalty for failure to comply with reporting requirements.
For failure to comply with the above reporting requirements the penalty for the first offense shall be a fine of $100.00 and subsequent offenses shall be fines not to exceed $500.00.
(Ord. of 7-23-1996, § 2)
Sec. 66-21. - Enforcement.
This article shall be enforced by Fannin County, Georgia. Citations for violations shall require appearance before the magistrate court of Fannin County.
(Ord. of 7-23-1996, § 3)
Secs. 66-22—66-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EXCISE TAX ON ROOMS, LODGINGS AND ACCOMMODATIONS[1]

Sec. 66-46. - Short title.
The ordinance from which this articles derives may be cited as the "Fannin County Lodging Ordinance".
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § I)
Sec. 66-47. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to enact an excise tax upon the furnishing for value to the public of any room or rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished by any person or legal entity licensed by or required to pay business or occupational taxes to, the county for operating within the special district a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, rental cabin or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished for value.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § III)
Sec. 66-48. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them herein, except when the context clearly indicates a contrary meaning.
Due date. The 20 th day after the close of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed.
Guest room. A room or rooms occupied, or intended, arranged, or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel/motel/cabin/residence/lodge. Any structure or any portion of a structure including any lodging house, studio, hotel, motel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, public club, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, rental cabin, or private club containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise.
Occupancy. The use or possession, or the right to use or possession, of any room or apartment in a hotel or motel, or the right to use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room or apartment.
Occupant. Any person (or persons utilizing a single unit) who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess, any room or hotel or motel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license, agreement or otherwise.
Operator. Any person operating a hotel/motel (as set out herein) in Fannin County, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, the lessee, sub lessee, lender in possession, licensee, online travel companies, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel / motel, including private owners who rent or lease private residences for more than two days in any one year.
Person. An individual, firm partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust receiver, trustee, syndicate, business entity, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, to include the plural and well as the singular number, excepting, however, the United States of America, the State of Georgia, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the governing authority of Fannin County is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Permanent resident. Any occupant who as of a given date shall have occupied, or has or shall have the right of occupancy, of any guest room in a hotel for at least 90 consecutive days.
Rent. The considerations or value received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of all kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction there-from whatsoever.
Return. Any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § IV)
Sec. 66-49. - Rate of levy.
There is hereby set and levied on the occupant of a guest room of any hotel/motel/cabin/residence/lodge/guest room located within the special district a tax in the amount of five percent of the gross rent for such occupancy.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § V)
Sec. 66-50. - Commencement of levy.
The tax herein imposed shall be paid upon any occupancy occurring on or after January 1, 2012, including, but not limited to such occupancy that was entered into pursuant to a contract, lease or other agreement entered into prior to such date.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § VI)
Sec. 66-51. - Exemptions from levy.
No tax shall be levied pursuant to this article under the following situations:
(a)
No tax shall be levied under this section for the use of meeting rooms.
(b)
No tax shall be levied under this section for the use of any jail cell, detention center or other building where such housing or detention is under legal restraint.
(c)
No tax shall be levied under this section for the use of any hospital medical treatment facility.
(d)
No tax shall be levied under this section upon the fees or charges for any room, lodgings or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days to the State of Georgia employees or officials when traveling on official business.
(e)
No tax shall be levied under this section upon the fees or charges for any room, lodging or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days to local government employees or officials when traveling on official business.
(f)
No tax shall be levied under this section for rentals over 90 consecutive days.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § VII)
Sec. 66-52. - Exemption—Permanent residences.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no tax shall be imposed hereunder upon a permanent resident.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § VIII)
Sec. 66-53. - Collection of tax by operator.
It shall be the duty of every operator providing lodging accommodations within the unincorporated area of Fannin County to collect the tax on occupants as imposed herein.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § IX)
Sec. 66-54. - Registration of operator.
Every person engaging in or about to engage in the business of providing lodging accommodations, as above defined, in the special district shall immediately register said business with the Fannin County board of commissioners' office, as the duly authorized representative of Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia. Persons engaged in such business must so register no later than 30 days after the date this section becomes effective, but such grace period for the filing of the registration after the effective date of the tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of such tax on and after the date of imposition thereof.
(a)
The required registration hereunder shall set forth the name under which the operator transacts business or intends to transact business; the location of the place or places of business, the mailing address of the business, the principal contact person at said business and such other information as would facilitate the collection of the tax.
(b)
The registration shall be signed by the owner (if a natural person), by an officer (if a corporation) or a partner (if a partnership).
(c)
A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. However, a realtor offering cabins for rent shall be deemed to be one place of business and shall not require a separate registration for each cabin rented.
(d)
An operator offering more than one cabin or unit for rent under the same federal and state tax identification number shall be required to file the same number of returns as required by the State of Georgia for the filing of state sales tax returns.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § X)
Sec. 66-55. - Certificate of taxing authority.
Upon the registration of an operator as hereinabove provided, the Fannin County board of commissioners office shall issue to such operator a certificate of authority to collect the tax on occupant. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business or person to which it relates.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XI)
Sec. 66-56. - Due date and required report.
All taxes levied by this article shall be due and payable to the Fannin County board of commissioners monthly, on or before the 20 th day of every month next succeeding each respective month in which taxes are collected, and payment shall be accompanied by return for the preceding monthly period showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for a period, and such other information as may be required by the board of commissioners office or governing authority of Fannin County.
In the event that an operator is permitted under applicable state guidelines to make quarterly sales tax returns to the State of Georgia, said operator shall be permitted to make quarterly sales tax returns to Fannin County, Georgia. At the time of registration, the operator shall indicate that he is permitted to make quarterly sales tax returns together with month and day said quarterly returns are due. The failure of the operator to indicate that he is permitted under applicable state statue to file quarterly reports will infer that monthly reports are due and collectable.
At the time any such report is due, the operator shall file a copy of the corresponding state sales tax return for the sole purpose of verifying the sums reported and due.
In the event an operator is permitted under applicable state guidelines to file annual excise, or lodging tax returns, to the State of Georgia, said operator is required to file monthly or quarterly returns for lodging tax to Fannin County, Georgia.
In the event there are no rentals in a reporting period, lodging providers are required to file a return to Fannin County, Georgia stating they had zero rentals for the period.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XII)
Sec. 66-57. - Deposit to general fund.
No later than the 25 th day of each month, the designated representative shall deposit to the general county fund such excise taxes as have been paid under the provisions of this article, and such funds shall thereafter at the direction of the board of commissioners be expended for the promotion of the tourism industry in Fannin County, or such funds at the direction of the board of commissioners of Fannin County, Georgia, may be otherwise be expended for the purpose of promoting tourism, conventions and trade shows as provided by statute.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XIII)
Sec. 66-58. - Collection fee allowed operators.
Operators collecting the tax levied hereunder shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting, and payment of the amount due. The rate of the deduction shall be three percent of the amount due, but only if the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XIV)
Sec. 66-59. - Penalty and interest.
The operator, in the event of operator's failure to pay tax when due, shall pay a penalty of 15 percent of the amount due plus interest on the total amount of delinquent taxes at the rate of eight and one-half percent per annum. In addition, the operator shall not be entitled to the fee allowed in section 66-58 of this article. The late penalty will be strictly enforced.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XV)
Sec. 66-60. - Failure to file return.
(a)
If any operator fails to file a return as required under the provisions of this section, the county shall make an estimate of the amount of gross rentals which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in which the operator failed to file the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the county.
(b)
The board of commissioners of Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia or its designated representative(s) shall give to the operator written notice of determination as herein provided. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail such service shall be addressed to the operator at his/her/its last known address as it appears on any of the county's records. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(c)
The amount of the determination made hereunder shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one percent per month, or a fraction thereof, from the 20 th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the day of payment.
(d)
In addition, a penalty of five percent of the tax due or $5.00 whichever is greater for each 30 days or fraction thereof of delinquency, not to exceed 25 percent or $25.00 in the aggregate, whichever is greater, shall be assessed and paid by the operator to the County.
(e)
The estimated tax together with applicable penalties and interest may be collected utilizing any of the enforcement methods set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XVI)
Sec. 66-61. - Records.
Each operator collecting a tax under the provisions of this section shall keep for a period of at least three years all records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers setting forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date or dates of occupancy, and such other information as the county may, in writing, from time to time require.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XVII)
Sec. 66-62. - Enforcement of provisions.
The board of commissioners or its designated representative(s) shall administer and enforce the provisions of this section for the collection of the tax herein imposed, and in so doing shall have the following powers:
(a)
To examine, or authorize the examination of, books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, and other facilities of any operator subject to this article, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(b)
To require the filing of reports by any person or persons having in their possession or custody information relating to rentals which are subject to the tax herein levied; and,
(c)
To allow a credit on any amount due payable from persons who paid the tax herein levied but who were erroneously or illegally subjected thereto.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XVIII)
Sec. 66-63. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
At any time within three years after any tax or any portion of such tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, the county attorney at the direction of the board of commissioners may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the county to collect such amount due together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees, and other legal fees incident thereto.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XIX)
Sec. 66-64. - Sale of business prior to payment of taxes.
If any operator becomes liable for any amount required to be paid by this section and subsequent thereto sells out or quits the business, the successors or assignees of such operator shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase price to cover such amount due. In the event said purchaser of the business fails to withhold the required amount, he/she/it shall become personally liable for the extent of the tax owed, together with any applicable penalties and interest. Any operator or person who ceases to operate the entity under which the same is registered with the county, said operator or person must notify the board of commissioners office in writing within 30 days of closing said enterprise.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XX)
Sec. 66-65. - Violation; penalty.
(a)
Any person who shall do anything prohibited by this article or who shall fail to do anything required by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, amenable to the process of the magistrate court of Fannin County and upon conviction, shall be assessed with any penalty, including fine, confinement, or both, allowed by law for the violation of county resolutions or ordinances each and every day that such violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
(b)
In order to enforce this article or to correct or abate any violation of the article, the board of commissioners of Fannin County, in addition to other remedies may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XXI)
Sec. 66-66. - Severability.
(a)
If any paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or any portion of this article shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, or if the provisions of any part of this resolution as applied to any particular situation or set of circumstances shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not be construed to affect the portions of this article not so held to be invalid, or the application of this article to other circumstances not so held to be invalid. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the board of commissioners to provide separable and divisible parts, and it does hereby adopt any and all parts hereof as may not be held invalid for any reason.
(b)
All resolutions or parts of resolutions in conflict with the terms of this article are hereby repealed, but it is hereby provided that any resolution or law which may be applicable hereto and aid in carrying out or making effective the intent, purpose and provisions hereof, which shall be literally construed to be in favor of Fannin County is hereby adopted as part hereof.
(c)
The effective date of this article shall be the 1 st day of January, 2013.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XXII)
Sec. 66-67. - License fee.
In order to comply with the mandates of the applicable laws of the State of Georgia, an administrative fee is hereby implemented on any business or person under the purview of the within ordinance. Said administrative fee shall be in the amount of $25.00 payable annually. Said administrative fee shall be remitted to the board of commissioners, before the 1 st day of September of each year that this article is in effect. The administrative fee after September 1 st will be $75.00. The board of commissioners, or designated representative, shall issue a lodging certificate to said enterprise paying said administrative fee.
(Ord. of 11-27-2012, § XXIII)
