Chapter 74 - UTILITIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 74-1—74-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - INSTALLATION OR RELOCATION OF UTILITY LINES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 74-19. - Height of cables installed above road right-of-way.
The height of cable installed over said county road right-of-way shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the National Electrical Code as it now exists, or as subsequently modified.
(Ord. of 4-12-1977, § VI)
Sec. 74-20. - Violation; penalty.
Violation of this article is hereby declared punishable as a misdemeanor as defined under the laws of the State of Georgia; each day in violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. of 4-12-1977, § VII)
Secs. 74-21—74-43. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 74-44. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or municipality to install or relocate existing utility lines, including water, sewerage, electrical and telephone lines, and other lines, including cable television, whether located above, upon, or beneath the surface of the ground upon any road right-of-way under the jurisdiction of Fannin County without first obtaining a permit for such installation or relocation.
(Ord. of 4-12-1977, § I)
Sec. 74-45. - Application.
Prior to the beginning of construction the applicant shall file with the board of commissioners of Fannin County an application for a permit for such construction or relocation, said application to be on a form prescribed by the board of commissioners and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The location of the proposed construction;
(2)
The nature, type, or method of proposed construction;
(3)
Specifications, including description of materials proposed to be used, description of the right-of-way space sought to be occupied;
(4)
Degree of interference with traffic, if any, expected during construction.
(Ord. of 4-12-1977, § II)
Sec. 74-46. - Filing; grant or denial.
Upon filing of said application together with any additional information required by the chairman of the board of commissioners, an investigation will be made and a permit issued or denied by the chairman within five days. If denied, the applicant shall be given the reason for denial in writing signed by the chairman; if granted, the permit may issue in accordance with the application, or may issue upon terms and conditions required in the public interest.
(Ord. of 4-12-1977, § III)
Sec. 74-47. - Applicant's right to review by board of commissioners.
In the event the applicant is dissatisfied with the permit as issued, or in case of a denial of the permit, he/she shall have the right to review by the board of commissioners at the next regular meeting providing he/she files notice of such intent in writing with the clerk of the board of commissioners within five days of the action complained of. If the next regular meeting of the board of commissioners falls within said five-day period, then the matter will be heard at the following regular meeting of the board of commissioners. The findings of the board of commissioners at such hearing shall be the final determination in said matter.
(Ord. of 4-12-1977, § IV)
Sec. 74-48. - Granting of permit does not vest any interest in road right-of-way in applicant.
The granting of any permit hereunder shall not vest any interest in said road right-of-way in the applicant. If it should become necessary to relocate any lines, poles, or other equipment of the applicant due to relocation, widening or other improvements of said county road, such utility and other lines will be removed or relocated by the applicant at his/her expense upon notice.
(Ord. of 4-12-1977, § V)
Secs. 74-49—74-69. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SEWER SERVICE

Sec. 74-70. - Installation permit required; form.
It shall be unlawful for any person to install a sewage system without having first applied for and obtained from the county board of health a construction permit for the installation of such sewage system. The aforesaid construction permit shall be in a form adopted and approved by the authorized members of the board of health of Fannin County, Georgia.
(Res. of 5-14-1985)
Sec. 74-71. - Final inspection and written approval required prior to use.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cover or use a new on-site sewage system, which includes a septic tank, until final inspection has been made by the Fannin County board of health to determine compliance with the provisions of the construction permit issued under section 290-5-26-03(3) of the Rules of the Department of Human Resources Public Health of the State of Georgia, and written approval has been issued by the county board of health. The aforesaid written approval shall be in a form adopted and approved by the Fannin County board of health. A copy of the final inspection of an on-site sewage management system shall be provided to the owner, builder, developer, or agent, whichever is appropriate, by the Fannin County board of health.
(Res. of 5-14-1985)
Sec. 74-72. - Permit required for permanent connection to dwelling or commercial building; penalty for violation.
It will be unlawful for any power company to make a permanent connection to any dwelling or commercial building until the health inspector has made a final inspection of the dwelling or commercial building. Upon approval by the inspector, he/she shall issue a permit to the owner to be delivered to the sewage contractor or installer and electrical company whereby same can be connected. The contractor or electrical company, upon violation of this article shall be subject to a penalty not to exceed $500.00. Any owner who attempts to evade the purpose of this article by not having proper sewage installed and inspected by the sanitation inspector shall be subject to a penalty not to exceed $500.00.
(Res. of 5-14-1985)
