ARTICLE IX. - TOCCOA RIVER PROTECTION

Sec. 42-531. - Purpose of article.
(a)
Findings. River corridors are the strips of land that flank major rivers in Georgia. These corridors are of vital importance to Georgia in that they help preserve those qualities that make a river suitable as a habitat for wildlife, a site for recreation, and a source for clean drinking water. River corridors also allow the free movement of wildlife from area to area within the state, help control erosion and river sedimentation, and help absorb floodwaters.
(b)
Designation as protected river. The Toccoa River has been designated as a protected river by the State of Georgia. The purpose of this article is to establish measures to guide future growth and development in the areas adjacent to the Toccoa River as defined herein.
(c)
Authority. See section 42-410(c).
(d)
Jurisdiction. See section 42-410(d).
(e)
Cite. This article shall be known and cited as "Toccoa River Protection Ordinance."
(f)
Interpretation. See section 42-410(f).
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. XI, art. I)
Sec. 42-532. - Toccoa River corridor protection district established.
Toccoa River corridor protection district is hereby designated and shall comprise all land, inclusive of islands, in areas of the Toccoa River within Fannin County and being within 100 feet horizontally on both sides of the river as measured from the river banks. Also included is the area between the top of the bank and the edge of the river, even though this strip of land is not included as part of the 100-foot buffer requirement contained in the minimum standards. This district shall be further defined and delineated on the Toccoa River corridor protection district map. The map is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this article by reference.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. XI, art. II)
Sec. 42-533. - Protection criteria.
Protection criteria are as follows:
(1)
Construction within the buffer area is prohibited except as provided herein.
(2)
A natural vegetative buffer shall be maintained at all times in the river corridor, except as otherwise provided herein.
(3)
The natural vegetative buffer shall be restored as quickly as possible following any land disturbing activity.
(4)
Septic tank and septic tank drain fields are prohibited in the river corridor, except as expressly provided in subsection (5) of this section.
(5)
Single-family dwellings including the usual appurtenances are permitted in the buffer area subject to the following conditions:
a.
The dwelling shall be in compliance with all local zoning regulations.
b.
The dwelling shall be located on a tract of land containing at least two acres. For the purposes of these standards, the size of the tract of land shall not include any area that lies within the protected river (that is, for tracts of land that include portions of a protected river, the area between the river banks cannot be counted towards the two-acre minimum size).
c.
There shall be only one such dwelling on each two-acre or larger tract of land.
d.
A septic tank or tanks serving such a dwelling may be located within the buffer area.
e.
Septic tank drain fields shall not be located within the buffer area.
(6)
Industrial and commercial land uses existing in the river corridor prior to the initial promulgation of this article are exempt from the criteria contained herein, provided that:
a.
These uses do not impair the drinking quality of the river water.
b.
These uses meet all state and federal environmental rules and regulations.
(7)
The construction of road crossings and utility crossings is permitted in the river corridor, provided such construction meets all requirements of the Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act of 1975, and all applicable local ordinances on soil erosion and sedimentation control.
(8)
The following uses are permitted in the river corridor, provided that such uses do not impair longterm functions of the protected river or the river corridor:
a.
Timber production and harvesting, subject to the following conditions:
1.
Forestry activity shall be consistent with best management practices established by the Georgia Forestry Commission; and
2.
Forestry activity shall not impair the drinking quality of the river water as defined by the Federal Clean Water Act, as amended.
b.
Wildlife and fisheries management activities consistent with the purpose of O.C.G.A. 12-2-8.
c.
Wastewater treatment.
d.
Recreational usage consistent either with the maintenance of a natural vegetative buffer or with river dependent recreation. For example, a boat ramp would be consistent with this criterion but a hard surface tennis court would not. Parking lots are not consistent with this criterion. Paths and walkways within the river corridor are consistent with this criterion.
e.
Natural water quality treatment and purification.
f.
Agricultural production and management, subject to the following conditions:
1.
Agricultural activity shall be consistent with best management practices established by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission;
2.
Agricultural activity shall not impair the drinking quality of the river water as defined by the Federal Clean Water Act, as amended; and
3.
Agricultural activity shall be consistent with all state and federal laws, and all regulations promulgated by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
g.
Other uses permitted by the department of natural resources under section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(9)
Handling areas for the receiving and storage of hazardous waste are prohibited within the river corridor.
(10)
Hazardous waste or solid waste landfills are prohibited within the river corridor.
(11)
The standards and requirements in this article do not supersede those contained in the Metropolitan River Protection Act, The Coastal Marshlands Protection Act, and the Erosion and Sedimentation Act.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. XI, art. III)
Sec. 42-534. - Exemptions from protection plan.
The following uses are exempt from the river corridor protection plan.
(1)
Land use existing prior to the initial promulgation of the Fannin County river corridor protection district. For the purposes of this article a preexisting use is defined as any land use or land disturbing activity, including all human endeavors directly associated with such use or activity, which, prior to the initial promulgation of the ordinance from which this article is derived falls within one of the following categories (see section 42-533(6) for additional regulations governing preexisting industrial and commercial uses):
a.
Is completed.
b.
Is under construction.
c.
Is fully approved by the governing authority.
d.
All materials have been submitted for approval by the governing authority.
e.
Is zoned for such use and expenditures in excess of $2,500.00 have been made in preparation for construction in accordance with such zoning.
(2)
Mining activities, if permitted by the department of natural resources pursuant to the Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968, as amended.
(3)
Utilities, (except as discussed section 42-533(7) if such utilities cannot feasibly be located outside the buffer area (feasibility shall be decided conservatively by the local government), provided that:
a.
The utilities shall be located as far from the river bank as reasonably possible;
b.
Installation and maintenance of the utilities shall be such as to protect the integrity of the buffer area as well as is reasonably possible; and
c.
Utilities shall not impair the drinking quality of the river water.
(4)
Specific forestry and agricultural activities except as discussed above in section 42-533(8)a and f.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. XI, art. IV)
Sec. 42-535. - Administration and enforcement.
(a)
Site plans. Application for a local development permit within the Toccoa river corridor protection district shall include a site plan, drawn to a scale of one inch equals 50 feet by a registered land surveyor or a professional engineer licensed by the State of Georgia, with the following information. See section 42-440.
(b)
Activities to comply with site plan. See section 42-441.
(c)
Exemptions to site plan requirements. See section 42-442.
(d)
Powers of land development officer. See section 42-443.
(e)
Review procedures. See section 42-444.
(f)
Duration of permit validity. See section 42-445.
(g)
Penalties. See section 42-446.
(h)
Suspension, revocation. See section 42-447.
(i)
Administrative appeals. See section 42-448.
(j)
Judical review. See section 42-449.
(k)
Amendments. See section 42-450.
(l)
Relief assessment. See section 42-451.
(m)
Separability and abrogation. See section 42-452.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. XI, art. V)
Secs. 42-536—42-563. - Reserved.
