Chapter 22 - CEMETERIES

Sec. 22-1. - Title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as "An Ordinance Regulating the Maintenance, Keeping and Preservation of Cemeteries within the Unincorporated Areas of Fannin County, a Political Subdivision of the State of Georgia."
(Ord. of 1-23-2001, art. III)
Sec. 22-2. - Adoption of state regulations.
(a)
The General Assembly of the State of Georgia has set forth in the provisions of the Official Code of Georgia sections 44-3-131 through 44-3-134 rules and regulations for the establishment and maintenance of cemeteries within the State of Georgia.
(b)
Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, does hereby affirm and adopt said regulations, to the extent applicable to cemeteries located within Fannin County, Georgia, including by reference any and all definitions set forth in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated section 44-3-131.
(c)
Said provisions of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated in section 44-3-131(4) specifically states that the aforesaid regulations do not include any governmentally owned cemeteries, fraternal cemeteries, church and synagogue cemeteries or family burial plots.
(Ord. of 1-23-2001, art. IV)
Sec. 22-3. - Maintenance of cemeteries.
Any cemetery subject to the provisions of this chapter which is situated in an area that is accessible to livestock shall be fenced in order to prevent said livestock from trampling or grazing on any grave site. It shall be the obligation of the owner of the livestock to provide said fencing in a manner adequate to achieve the objective stated herein. Said fence shall include a gated means of access to the cemetery.
(Ord. of 1-23-2001, art. V)
Sec. 22-4. - Requirements for the creation of cemeteries.
(a)
Minimum acreage. In order to provide for the welfare of adjacent property owners, to insure privacy, and to avoid any claim of nuisance, no person, business, or entity shall be authorized to establish or maintain a cemetery within the unincorporated areas of Fannin County, Georgia, on a parcel or tract of land containing less than 25 acres and shall be established as a perpetual care cemetery.
(b)
Minimum setback to adjacent property owners.
(1)
In order to provide for the welfare of adjacent property owners, to insure privacy, and to avoid any claim of nuisance, any tract of land designed for utilization as a cemetery within Fannin County, Georgia, shall have a minimum setback of 25 feet within the property line boundary of said 25-acre tract and any adjacent property owner. Any adjacent property owner shall be required to maintain a 25-foot minimum setback from their property and the property line boundary. The net result being a 50-foot buffer area between any third party development and any cemetery.
(2)
No internment of human remains shall be allowed within said buffer zone.
(c)
Requirements of the Fanning County, Georgia, land development ordinance (chapter 42 of this Code). Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to exclude any person, business or entity which shall be engaged in land disturbing activity from meeting the requirements of the applicable ordinances of Fannin County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 1-23-2001, art. VI)
Sec. 22-5. - Violations.
(a)
Notification of violations. The Fannin County Land Development officer shall be authorized to inspect any tract designated for the establishment and maintenance of a cemetery.
(b)
Issuance of cease and desist orders. The Fannin County land development officer can on his/her own initiative or at the request of the Fannin County board of commissioners, prior to a hearing, issue a cease and desist order or other appropriate order to any person who is violating the provisions of this chapter.
(c)
Hearings. Any alleged violation of this chapter shall be prosecuted by the Fannin County land development officer in the magistrate court for Fannin County, Georgia.
(d)
Fines. Any person or entity found to be in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 and/or 30 days in jail.
(Ord. of 1-23-2001, art. VII)
Sec. 22-6. - Severability.
Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter be declared invalid for any reason, the remainder of said chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. of 1-23-2001, art. IX)
