Chapter 10 - NUISANCES
ARTICLE I. - OPEN BURNING

Sec. 10-101. - Open burning regulations
Open burning means the burning of any materials wherein air contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber. For the purposes of this definition, a chamber shall be regarded as enclosed when, during the time combustion takes place, only such apertures, ducts, stacks, flues or chimneys as are necessary to provide combustion air and to permit the escape of exhaust gases are open.
1.
Burning limited.
a)
Within the Town of Thunderbolt, the open burning of residential yard waste consisting of leaves and brush from vegetation grown on a residential property is permitted.
i)
The burning shall take place only from sunrise to sunset.
ii)
The burning of man-made materials such as paper, garbage, tires, shingles, plastics, lumber, and other kinds of wastes is prohibited.
2.
Restrictions on burning yard waste.
a)
The burning of yard waste shall be conducted as follows:
i)
All fires must be at least 20 feet away from any building, structure or property line. At no time shall a fire be located on a town street, or property, unless specifically approved in writing.
ii)
Fire-fighting material sufficient to contain any fire started under this section will be at the site of the burning.
iii)
All fires shall be monitored from a point on the property where the fire is located by a person capable of containing a fire, should containment become necessary.
iv)
If the safety of the community or the public may be endangered, the town administrator/fire chief/or designee may invoke a temporary burning ban.
v)
If climatological conditions indicate open burning may create a health hazard, the town administrator/fire chief/or designee may invoke a temporary burning ban.
vi)
Any person engaged in open burning in violation of this chapter shall be summoned for an ordinance violation.
3.
Open burning that creates a hazardous condition or failure to comply with this section:
a)
The fire chief or designee shall be authorized to administer a must comply extinguishment order of the open burning operation by the owner, occupant, or other person responsible for the burning operation.
i)
Thunderbolt Code Enforcement/Thunderbolt PD shall have the authority to cite person responsible for noncompliance to this section and/or state code.
4.)
Exceptions to this article.
a)
This section shall not apply to fireplaces located wholly within a residence, outdoor barbecues for the preparation of food, or fires contained in a concrete or metal pit or other fire proof structure capable of containing a fire. Properly supervised fires set for recreational or ceremonial purposes are also allowed provided that a parade/event permit is obtained from the town administrator or designee for such recreational and ceremonial fires.
( Ord. of 8-11-2021 )
Sec. 10-102. - Reserved.
(Council, 02/12/1986). (Revised 03/14/2007).
Sec. 10-103. - Penalty for violation of § 10-101.
Breach of section 10-101 are punishable by a maximum fine of:
$100.00 First offense
$200.00 Second offense
$500.00 Third offense or thereafter.
Sec. 10-104. - False alarm ordinance.
1.
Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the terms herein shall be defined as follows:
a)
Reserved for future use.
b)
Alarm system business means any person, partnership or corporation engaging in the business of planning, installing, servicing, maintaining, repairing, replacing, or monitoring alarms systems in the Town of Thunderbolt.
c)
Alarm system means an assembly of equipment and devices arranged to signal the presence of a hazard to which the Town of Thunderbolt Police Department or Town of Thunderbolt Fire Department is expected to respond.
d)
Alarm system coordinator refers to the public safety director or fire chief or their designees.
e)
False alarm means a bell, mechanical, electrical, or telephone apparatus, or combination thereof which is activated or the purpose of summoning the Thunderbolt Police Department or Thunderbolt Fire Department to respond to a hold-up, break-in, burglary, unauthorized entry, destruction of property, fire, or other event to which police or fire personnel response are expected to respond when no evidence of such hazards are found and the responding service is not needed. Exceptions will be made for alarms activated during system repairs or maintenance, provided there is prior notification. Exceptions will also be made for false alarms occurring during tornadoes or hurricanes and during widespread power outages exceeding three hours in duration. Such exceptions will not be counted as false alarms.
f)
Reserved for future use.
2.
Reserved.
3.
Alarm system service fees/monitoring.
A.
Fees established. The following service fees are hereby established to discourage excessive false alarms at any single location, enhance the safety of officers of the Town of Thunderbolt Police and Fire Departments, protect the lives and property of the officers of Thunderbolt, reduce unnecessary use of public safety resources, and produce revenues to defray a portion of the costs of responses to false alarms.
B.
False alarm fees for alarm customer of an alarm system business. Excessive false alarms for alarm customers are considered to be any number in excess of three false alarms during a calendar year. Upon the fourth false alarm, the alarm user will be assessed and billed a fee as set forth on a fee schedule maintained by the public safety director and the town administrator's office for the excessive false alarms.
C.
Notices, billing and payment of fees. A notice will be sent to the alarm user advising of each occurrence of a false alarm after the second and subsequent false alarm in any calendar year. The alarm user will be fined for each additional false alarm after the third false alarm in that calendar year per the schedule attached to the notice. A notice and invoice will be mailed to the alarm user for each false alarm occurring after the third false alarm in any calendar year. Payment shall be due to the town within 30 days of the invoice date.
All fees for excessive false alarms shall also be billed to the property owner if the property is not occupied by the owner. If the person responsible for the false alarm has not paid the fee within 60 days of the date of the invoice from the town, the owner will be responsible for payment of any unpaid false alarm fees. Any owner of the property that becomes responsible for payment of the false alarm fee shall make payment with 90 days of the first billing sent to the responsible person for the false alarm fee.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, all fees for false alarm responses caused by failure of an alarm system business to notify the police or fire department in advance of performing maintenance to an alarm system will be billed to the alarm system business. All such false alarms will be billed as set forth on a fee schedule maintained by the public safety director's and the town administrator's office. Any fees for false alarms pursuant to this paragraph shall be billed to the alarm system business on a monthly basis.
a.
Excessive false alarms deemed to be a nuisance. False alarms in excess of ten in a billing cycle will be deemed a nuisance and shall subject the offender to penalties as provided by other applicable ordinances of the Town of Thunderbolt.
b.
Monitoring. The fire and police departments are responsible for monitoring and documenting false alarm incidents. A listing of alarm companies with excessive false alarms, locations with excessive false alarms, and the number of excessive false alarms will be maintained by the alarm systems coordinator.
c.
The police chief may at his discretion identify those critical or high risk locations that are not subject to automatic suspension for false alarms when such suspension would be detrimental to the safety of the public.
Editor's note— Formerly Code § 5-206.
ARTICLE II. - DUMPING

Sec. 10-201. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation to throw or dump any trash, tin cans or garbage of any kind in or on the streets, roads or highways or the right-of-way of said streets, roads, or highways in the Town of Thunderbolt or on any property in the Town of Thunderbolt of any person, firm or corporation (Council, 11/17/1954).
Sec. 10-202. - Variance.
Written permission of the owner of the land where the conduct is taking place and the permission of the chief of police in the form of a permit variance where the public health or comfort is not adversely affected will excuse the conduct. (Enabling legislation: O.C.G.A. § 16-7-48; Council, 11/17/1954 and 02/12/1986).
Sec. 10-203. - Penalty.
Breach of sections 10-201 and 10-202 are punishable by a maximum fine of:
$100.00 First offense
$200.00 Second offense
$500.00 Third offense or thereafter.
ARTICLE III. - NATURAL DEBRIS FAVORABLE TO FIRE OR MOSQUITOES

Sec. 10-301. - Prohibited.
1.
It shall be the duty of every owner of any lot, tract or parcel of land within the corporate limits of the Town of Thunderbolt to cut and remove any weeds or grass undergrowth or underbrush, rank vegetation and other debris which will endanger the public health and safety, or will allow stagnant waters to remain upon said premises to breed mosquitoes or to create a fire or health hazard to the inhabitants of the Town of Thunderbolt.
2.
Enforcement of this article shall be as set forth in article VIII of this chapter.
3.
If the Town of Thunderbolt is not notified, in writing, through its administrative office, that the lot or lots are cleared, then there shall be assessed to each lot owner, an administrative fee of $165.00 plus the cost for cutting and/or removal of debris. (Ord. 2/10/1993, revised 01/09/2008.)
ARTICLE IV. - VEHICLES AND JUNK

Sec. 10-401. - Prohibited.
1.
No wrecked, junked, or disabled motor vehicle of any kind or description or other junk shall be stored, kept or allowed to remain on any real property, and the failure to have a current license tag on said vehicle shall be prima facie evidence of it being disabled, wrecked or junked, unless the vehicle or junk is maintained or kept within the confines of an enclosed building on said premises not in violation of the zoning ordinance or unless the zoning ordinance permits the maintenance of a junkyard, repair garage, or other maintenance establishment on the premises which has a proper town license for that purpose (Council, 6/13/1973; 02/12/1986).
2.
No wrecked, junked or disabled motor boat or motor boat trailer of any kind or description shall be stored, kept, or allowed to remain on any real property. The failure to have a current license tag of the boat trailer or current license number on the boat shall be prima facie evidence of it being disabled, wrecked or junked, unless the boat and/or boat trailer is maintained or kept within the confines of an enclosed building on said premises not in violation of the zoning ordinance or unless the zoning ordinance permits the repair, or other work on boats or boat trailers, and the owner, or tenant, of such premises has a proper town license for operating such a business. (Council 3/12/2014)
Sec. 10-402. - Enforcement.
Enforcement of this article shall be as set forth in article VIII of this chapter. In addition to the notification procedure as set forth in article VIII of this chapter the police chief or clerk or other officer of the town designated by the mayor and council shall post a notice on the vehicle or junk in violation of this chapter directing the removal of such vehicle or junk. Revised 01/09/2008.
ARTICLE V. - NOISE

Sec. 10-501. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make, continue or cause to be made or continued any excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud noise which disturbs the peace or quiet of any neighborhood or which causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person of normal sensitivity residing within the town limits (Council, 02/12/1986).
Sec. 10-502. - Specific noises prohibited.
The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter.
1.
Motor vehicle horns. The sounding of any horn on any automobile, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle on any street or public place of the town except as a warning signal.
2.
Radios, television sets, and similar devices. The using, operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, television set, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of neighboring residents.
3.
Loudspeakers and amplifiers. The using or operating of any loudspeaker or sound-amplifying device mounted upon any vehicle within the town for the purpose of broadcasting or advertising any information about any business or activity for any other purpose, unless a permit for such sound amplification has been obtained from the mayor or chief of police.
4.
Construction equipment and activity. The operating of any equipment or the performing of any outside construction or repair work on buildings, structures, roads, or projects within the town between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless a permit for such construction or repair work between such hours has been obtained from the mayor or chief of police.
5.
Exhausts. The discharging into the open air of the exhaust of any internal combustion engine, motor boat, or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
6.
Animals and birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which by frequent or continuous barking, chirping, or other types of sound disturbs the comfort or repose of the residents of any residential neighborhood.
7.
Vehicle repair in residential areas. The repairing, rebuilding, or testing of any motor vehicle between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within any residential area in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the residents of the area.
8.
Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creating of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church, or court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital, or court street.
9.
Hawkers and peddlers. The selling of anything by outcry within the residential areas of the town, except at licensed sporting events, parades, fairs, circuses, and other similar licensed public entertainment events.
10.
Drums. The using of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of noise within the town, unless a permit for such use has been obtained from the mayor or chief of police.
11.
Other. Conduct which causes substantial discomfort or annoyance to persons of normal sensitiveness or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or peace of the residents of the Town of Thunderbolt. (Council, 6/12/1986).
Sec. 10-503. - Exemptions.
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from the noise regulations set forth in this chapter:
1.
Noises of safety signals and warning devices;
2.
Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or acting in a time of emergency; and
3.
Noises resulting from emergency work, to be construed as work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity, or work required to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger. (Council, 02/12/1986).
Sec. 10-504. - Penalty.
Breach of sections 10-501 through 10-502 are punishable by a maximum fine of:
$150.00 First offense, plus six months' probation.
$250.00 Second offense, plus six months' probation.
$1,000.00 Third offense, plus six months' probation.
ARTICLE VI. - NUISANCES IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-601. - Complaint Initiation.
Proceedings to abate a nuisance other than the specific conditions found in articles III, IV, and VIII of this chapter whether public or private, shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint with the town clerk, which such complaint shall state the nature and location of the nuisance and the name and address of the complainant or complainants. In the case of a private nuisance, the complaint shall be filed by the person or person injured by the nuisance; in the case of a public nuisance, the complaint shall be filed on behalf of the public by a town official or by a citizen specially injured by the nuisance (Council, 02/12/1986, revised 01/09/2008.)
Sec. 10-602. - Notice to alleged violator.
The town clerk shall issue a notice directed to the owner of the premises upon which the nuisance complained of is located and, if the person maintaining the same be a different person from the owner, then also to the person maintaining the nuisance, calling on such person to show cause, before the municipal court judge either personally or by attorney, at the time and place directed by the town clerk, why such activity alleged to be a nuisance should not be ordered, abated and removed. Notice shall be made either personally or by leaving a copy at the party's most notorious place of abode. A copy of such notice shall also be mailed to the complainant or complainants (Council, 02/12/1986, revised 01/09/2008.)
Sec. 10-603. - Appeal from allegation.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall feel that said ordinance as a matter of fact is not applicable to the property owned or occupied by said person, firm or corporation shall have the right to address such issue before the municipal court judge. (Council, 02/12/1986, revised 01/09/2008.)
Sec. 10-604. - Order of abatement.
If after hearing all the evidence the judge of the municipal court should decide that the activity complained of is a nuisance, the judge shall issue and order directed to the chief of police or any other member of the police force commanding that the nuisance be abated within the amount of time the judge deems reasonable but not to exceed 30 days. A copy of such order of abatement shall be served on the party or parties maintaining the nuisance as well as to the town administrator of the Town of Thunderbolt. (Council, 02/12/1986, revised 01/09/2008.)
Sec. 10-605. - Effect of noncompliance.
In the event of a refusal to comply within the time frame ordered by the court, the person or persons maintaining the nuisance shall be subject to arrest and/or fines for each day of continued violation. In addition thereto, any cost of corrective action incurred by the Town of Thunderbolt for which they have not been paid in connection with the enforcement of this ordinance may be placed on the execution docket by the Town of Thunderbolt against the property concerned or the persons responsible therefor. The town clerk or officer of the town designated by the mayor and council may also bring an action for contempt and imposition of additional fines against the alleged violator in the municipal court for the failure to comply with the prior order. The monetary fines shall not exceed $1,000.00 per day until the nuisance is abated. Revised 01/09/2008.
Sec. 10-606. - Injunction against town action.
Any person, firm or corporation disagreeing with the initial ruling of the judge of the municipal court has and shall have as a matter of law a right to file injunction proceedings in the Superior Court of Chatham County and request a stay of all action and procedure under this ordinance until a final ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction. Such right to seek an injunction shall be filed in the superior court within ten days of the ruling of the judge of the municipal court or other applicable law whichever is less. (Council, 02/12/1986, revised 01/09/2008.)
Sec. 10-607. - Injunction against alleged violations.
The activity or conduct in violation of any provision of this chapter which immediately causes substantial discomfort or annoyance to persons of normal sensitiveness or significantly endangers the comfort, repose, health, or peace of the residents of the town shall be deemed and is declared to be a nuisance, and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Enabling legislation: O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5; council, 02/12/1986)
ARTICLE VII. - ANIMAL WASTE

Sec. 10-701. - Reserved.
Sec. 10-702. - Reserved.
Council, 08/11/1995)
Sec. 10-703. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - NUISANCE ABATEMENT CODE FOR STRUCTURES, JUNK, AND VEGETATION

Sec. 10-801. - Authority and scope.
This article is enacted pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. title 41, chapter 2, sections 7 through 17, as amended, and is referenced herein as the "statute." O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 specifies the scope and purpose of this article. All powers and authorities granted to public officers and public authorities by the statute are hereby incorporated by reference so as to be assumed, delegated and granted pursuant to this article.
Sec. 10-802. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following words, terms and definitions shall apply:
Director means the building inspector or any "public officer" as defined in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8(10) delegated with authority by the mayor and council to enforce this article. The building inspector (or his designee) shall be the public officer who shall exercise the primary responsibilities prescribed by this article and shall be the "public officer" defined in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8(7). Director shall also include any officer or employee of the Town of Thunderbolt delegated with authority by the mayor and council to enforce articles III and IV of this chapter. Revised 01/09/2008.
Hearing officer may be the judge of the municipal court, his designee or another officer duly appointed by the mayor and council of Town of Thunderbolt. Revised 01/09/2008.
Parties in interest means the persons defined in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8(6).
Person means any natural person, corporation, partnership (general or limited), estate, trust or other entity or artificial person, or combination thereof.
Public authority means such agency or official(s) as defined in O.C.G.A. § 42-2-8(9). To the extent stated above, the definitions set forth in section 41-2-8 of the statute are incorporated herein by reference.
Sec. 10-802.1. - Duty of property owners.
It is the duty of the owner of every dwelling, building, structure, or property within the town to construct and maintain such dwelling, building, structure, or property in conformance with applicable codes in force within the town, or such ordinances which regulate and prohibit activities on property and which declare it to be a public nuisance to construct or maintain any dwelling, building, structure, or property in violation of such codes or ordinances.
Sec. 10-802.2. - Additional powers of director.
In addition to all other powers the director is authorized:
(1)
To investigate the dwelling conditions in the municipality in order to determine which dwellings, buildings, or structures therein are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial, or business use or are vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes;
(2)
To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence; and
(3)
To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
( Ord. of 12-9-2020
Editor's note— Renumbered by the editor from § 10-802.1 to eliminate duplication of section numbers.
Sec. 10-803. - Inspection and notice of hearing.
Whenever a request is filed with the public officer by a public authority or by at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer shall make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling, building, structure, or property. If the officer's investigation or inspection identifies that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer may issue a complaint in rem against the lot, tract, or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building, or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the interested parties for such dwelling, building, or structure. The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the interested parties; state with particularity the factual basis for the action; and contain a statement of the action sought by the public officer to abate the alleged nuisance. The summons shall notify the interested parties that a hearing will be held before the municipal at a date and time certain and at a place within the town. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint in the proper court. The interested parties shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for hearing;
Sec. 10-804. - Hearing.
(a)
Time and place. The hearing required by section 10-803 shall be held not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint in the municipal court. The interested parties shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for hearing.
(b)
The proceedings. The hearing officer shall preside at the hearing. The person conducting the hearing shall have authority to administer oaths or affirmations, examine witnesses and receive evidence at the hearing. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in the hearing. The proceedings at the hearing shall be recorded or taken down or made by such other procedure as may be undertaken either in a verbatim or summary form so as to be reasonably accurate.
(c)
The records. The director shall be the supervisor and custodian of the records on each property against which a complaint is issued and any hearing held. Such records shall be public records and made available to any party in interest and copies thereof provided upon the payment of such reasonable cost as may be incurred in duplicating or otherwise providing them. The records shall be preserved for not less than four years after the proceedings and action, if any, regarding the property are concluded.
Sec. 10-805. - Orders for corrective action.
(a)
After such notice and hearing, the municipal court determines that the dwelling, building, or structure in question is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the court shall state in writing findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the interested parties that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing an order:
1.
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation and, if applicable, to secure the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
2.
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to demolish and remove such dwelling, building, or structure and all debris from the property.
(b)
For purposes of this section, the court shall make its determination of "reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure" without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter, or improve a structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be factored in the court's determination. The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration, or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a Georgia appraiser classification as provided in O.C.G.A. title 43, ch. 39A, qualified building contractors, or qualified building inspectors without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure shall be the cost necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations in force in the jurisdiction;
(c)
If the public officer has the structure demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sales proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. The public officer and governing authority are relieved of any and all liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials. Revised, 1/09/2008.
Sec. 10-806. - Placarding.
When the owner and/or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close the dwelling, building or structure and the director causes such dwelling, building or structure and premises to be vacated and closed, the director shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling, building or structure to be closed a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful."
The placard shall bear the date posted, street, number of the building involved and the signature of the director. It shall thereafter be unlawful for such placard to be mutilated or removed or for such building to be occupied until the required corrective action is taken.
Sec. 10-807. - Failure to comply with order.
If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. Such abatement action shall commence within 270 days after the expiration of time specified in the order for abatement by the owner. Any time during which such action is prohibited by a court order issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-13 or any other equitable relief granted by a court of competent jurisdiction shall not be counted toward the 270 days in which such abatement action must commence. Revised 1/09/2008.
Sec. 10-808. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 6-111 has been relocated to be Code § 5-110.
Sec. 10-809. - Lien on property.
The amount of the cost of demolition, including all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the municipal tax collector or town revenue officer, and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Revised 1/09/2008.
Sec. 10-810. - Procedure for collection of amount due on lien.
The town shall enforce the collection of any amount due on a lien arising under this article in the following manner:
(1)
Amount. The amount of the lien shall be established as follows: The costs of administration to be assessed against properties and service shall be established by ordinance. The cost of vacating, clearing, cleanup, removal, closing or demolition shall be the cost paid or incurred by the town in effecting action against any property. Revised 1/09/2008.
(2)
Notice of lien. The owner, and/or parties if they possess a recorded interest in the property, shall be served with a copy of the lien and shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the town, within 30 days after the perfection of such lien, a sum of money not less than 25 percent of the total due on such lien, and by further paying the remaining balance due, together with interest at the rate of seven percent per annum, in three equal annual payments, each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment made as hereinabove prescribed.
(3)
Transfer of property. Should such property be sold, transferred or conveyed by the owner and/or parties in interest at any time prior to the termination of the three-year payment period, the entire balance due on such lien, with earned interest, shall be due and payable to the town.
(4)
Nonsatisfaction. Should the amount due on the lien, or any portion thereof, be unpaid after it is due, or upon the occurrence of the situation provided in subsection (2) above, the town may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien in the same manner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358 and other applicable statutes, which shall be subject to the right of redemption by any person having any right, title or interest in or lien upon the property; all as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40.
Sec. 10-811. - Service of notices and orders.
Service of complaints shall be effected as provided in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12.
(1)
Costs. The costs of service pursuant to this section shall be included in the sums otherwise due under this article.
(2)
Service. Such person(s) as designated by the town who are of legal age may be authorized to perform the service of all documents pursuant to this article in the manner usually performed by sheriffs provided they follow the procedures established by statute for those officials, and a fee may be assessed against the property so long as it does not exceed the fee currently imposed by the Sheriff of Chatham County for that activity. Any notice pursuant to section 9-2053, any order issued pursuant to section 9-2055, or any other post-hearing action affecting property may be served upon the owner and parties in interest by certified mail (return receipt requested) to the address specified in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12, as applicable, and to the address of the property, if it is occupied on the date of inspection, are of "occupant." If any party has specified to the director prior to or at the hearing an address for notice, that address shall be used for notices.
(3)
Failure to answer complaint. If the owner and the parties in interest neither file an answer to the complaint nor appear at the hearing, and a decision is rendered which affects the property, an advertisement shall be published in the newspaper utilized for town marshal tax sales for the two consecutive weekdays that a hearing was conducted, a summary of the general findings of the hearing, the action required as pertaining to the property, and the consequences which may result from noncompliance with the code or notice. A notice may identify more than one property which was the subject of a hearing.
Sec. 10-812. - Appeals.
Any person aggrieved by any action or decisions pursuant to this Code affecting any right, title or interest of such person in land, buildings, structures or improvements in which that person has a right, title or interest to the ownership or occupancy of possession of the same may appeal, or by his duly authorized agent, from any decision rendered pursuant to this Code to a court of competent jurisdiction. Revised 1/09/2008.
Sec. 10-813. - Eminent domain.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent the owner of any property from receiving just compensation for the taking of such property by the power of eminent domain under the laws of the State of Georgia, or to permit any property to be condemned or destroyed except in accordance with the police power of this state. Procedures under this article shall not constitute the, exercise of the power of eminent domain by the town.
Sec. 10-814. - Right to enter and inspect.
The director, any person authorized to enforce this article or articles III and IV of this chapter, and any uniformed officer of the police department shall be empowered to enter in or upon any property and structure at reasonable times to inspect the condition or work being performed thereon or therein. If such entry is refused, such official may obtain an order ex-party from a judge of municipal court of the Town of Thunderbolt pursuant to an affidavit setting forth the (i) name(s) and address(es) of the property owner(s) and any party in interest, and the person refusing entry, (ii) the date and time entry was attempted, (iii) the reason why entry was not effected, (iv) the means by which and by whom entry is proposed, (v) the reason why entry is necessary, and (vi) the predicate creating probable cause that entry and inspection is necessary. The order, shall specify a date and time for a hearing before the court to determine whether entry shall be permitted, unless the affidavit sets forth sufficient cause to justify immediate entry and inspection, whereupon such authority may then be granted. The order with a copy of the affidavit shall be served pursuant to the provisions applicable to service of subpoenas issued from the court or the provisions of section 9-2061 of this article. Revised 1/09/2008.
Sec. 10-815. - Construction.
This article shall be cumulative of other ordinances and Code provisions applicable to property and improvements in the town and shall not repeal other ordinances and Code provisions pertaining to similar subjects and procedures. (7/14/1993)
