Chapter 14 - ZONING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - [INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE]

Sec. 14-101. - Zoning regulations, incorporation by reference.
The zoning regulations as passed and amended by this town and published in a separate document outside this code (see Appendix A) are hereby adopted with the same force and effect as if recited in full herein (Council, 02/12/1986).
ARTICLE II. - [PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION]

Sec. 14-201. - Establish planning and zoning commission.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the municipality which will, in accordance with future and existing needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare and safety as well as efficiency and economy and the process of development, the Thunderbolt Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby created and established. The Thunderbolt Planning and Zoning Commission may sometimes be referred to as the "planning commission" or the "zoning commission," or "planning and zoning commission" under the Thunderbolt Code of Ordinances 1985 Revision and all appendices thereto.
Sec. 14-202. - Membership.
The planning and zoning commission shall consist of seven members, who shall be residents of the town, appointed by the governing body. The terms of the members shall be for four years, except that in the appointment of the first planning commission appointed pursuant to this revision to the zoning ordinance, one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, two members shall be appointed for a term of two years, two members shall be appointed for a term of three years and the remaining members shall be appointed for a term of four years each. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the governing body, which shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties. (Ord. 4/12/1995)
