Chapter 26 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action or other causes. These functions include, without limitation:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Police services;
(3)
Medical and health services;
(4)
Rescue;
(5)
Engineering;
(6)
Warning services;
(7)
Communications;
(8)
Defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons;
(9)
Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
(10)
Emergency welfare services;
(11)
Emergency transportation;
(12)
Plant protection;
(13)
Temporary restoration of public utility services; and
(14)
Other functions related to civilian protection;
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the functions listed in subsections (1)—(14) of this section.
(Ord. of 12-29-1999, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-32. - Unlawful acts during emergencies.
Notwithstanding any other city ordinance regulation, county, state or federal law, it shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency management corps in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
Do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy; imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this city; to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof.
(3)
Wear, carry or display without authority any mark or identification specified by the emergency management agency.
(Ord. of 12-29-1999, § 2)
Sec. 26-33. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in the city charter or as provided by the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(Ord. of 12-29-1999, § 3)
Secs. 26-34—26-56. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - EMERGENCY AUTHORITY OF MAYOR

Sec. 26-57. - Conditions authorizing declaration of emergency.
The mayor shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one or more of the following conditions exist:
(1)
There is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
(2)
Unusual or extreme weather conditions making use of city streets or areas difficult or impossible.
(3)
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is eminent or exists.
(4)
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(Ord. of 12-29-1999, § 4)
Sec. 26-58. - Powers after declaration.
After declaration of an emergency under section 26-57, along with city staff shall exhaust all reasonable efforts to contact fellow councilmembers alerting them of the declaration and facilitating a specially called meeting of mayor and council. The mayor, as chief executive, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
(1)
Use employees of the city to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of its citizens.
(2)
Close streets and sidewalks and delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
(3)
Impose emergency curfew regulations.
(4)
Close business establishments within the affected area.
(5)
Close any or all city-owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public.
(6)
Do all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. of 12-29-1999, § 5)
Sec. 26-59. - Effective period of emergency powers.
No emergency power as set forth in section 26-57 may be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the mayor; however, upon declaration of a second or further emergencies to exist, the emergency powers as set forth in section 26-57 may be exercised during such further emergency period, but never for more than 72 hours in one declared emergency period.
(Ord. of 12-29-1999, § 6)
Sec. 26-60. - Duration.
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or called meeting of the mayor and city council.
(Ord. of 12-29-1999, § 7)
Sec. 26-61. - Specified area.
The declaration of an emergency to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Ord. of 12-29-1999, § 8)
Secs. 26-62—26-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY

Sec. 26-81. - Participation.
It is the desire and intent of the mayor and city council that the city be a part of the county emergency management agency.
Sec. 26-82. - Director—Appointment.
The chairman of the county commission, with concurrence of the mayors of cities within the county, shall nominate for appointment, by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county.
Sec. 26-83. - Same—Duties.
When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the mayor and city council on matters pertaining to emergency management;
(2)
Assist city officials in organizing city departments;
(3)
Develop in conjunction with city and county departments the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 26-84. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities in the county for approval, and then to the state emergency management agency for approval;
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports, to the state emergency management agency;
(5)
Submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activity, etc.;
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center;
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of an emergency, under the supervision of the county governing officials.
_____
Sec. 26-84. - Composition, functions.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing city and county departments. The emergency functions are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/agency Functions
(1) Chairman, board of commissioners, and city mayors Direction and control
(2) County clerk Administrative services,
Resources management
(3) County sheriff's department and city police department Police services,
Search and recover,
Communications
(4) County fire department and city fire departments Fire control
Hazardous material control
Rescue
(5) County superintendent of schools and municipal superintendent of schools Transportation services
(6) County road and bridge department and city streets department Engineering
(7) City water, light and gas commission and county sewerage and water authority Utilities
Petroleum
Solid fuel
(8) County department of family and children services Social services
(9) County health department Health and medical services
(10) County chamber of commerce Emergency public information
(11) County emergency management agency Evacuation
Radiological protection
Training
Damage assessment
Public property assistance
Specific hazards
State military support
(12) County chapter American Red Cross Sheltering and temporary housing
Food services
  _____
(b)
Heads of city departments listed in this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local emergency operations plan for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
Sec. 26-85. - Powers during an emergency, disaster.
Upon a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor, separately or jointly with the chairman of the county commissioners, or in their absence their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or part of any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and funds received for such property or supplies;
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
Sec. 26-86. - Volunteers.
All persons other than officers and employees of the city volunteering in service pursuant to the defense under this article shall serve without compensation. While engaged in such service they shall have the same immunities as officers and employees of the city performing similar duties.
Sec. 26-87. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this division, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this division, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
Secs. 26-88—26-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - WAIVER OF CERTAIN FORMALITIES AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 26-111. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the city may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the city, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the city, all actions taken by the city council shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the city. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the city council without regard to or compliance with time consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Code of Ordinances of the city, or any portion thereof, where:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required;
(2)
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary permits for mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and the city building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Ord. of 12-29-1999, § 8)
Sec. 26-112. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fees means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
State of emergency means, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster or emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster or emergency. The subsequent recovery period shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the mayor and city council.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a particular zoning district.
(Ord. of 12-29-1999, § 1)
