Chapter 54 - PLANNING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; environment, ch. 26; floods, ch. 34; historical preservation, ch. 42; signs, ch. 58; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 66; subdivisions, ch. 70; utilities, ch. 82; vegetation, ch. 86; zoning, ch. 90.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 54-1—54-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 54-26. - Created.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the city planning commission is created and established as authorized by the state constitution. Such planning commission shall be organized and empowered as provided in this article.
(Code 1989, § 14-1)
State Law reference— Planning authority, Ga. Const. art. IX, § 2, ¶ 4; zoning procedures, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.
Sec. 54-27. - Membership; terms of office; vacancies; removal; compensation.
The planning commission shall consist of five members. All members shall be residents of the city and shall be appointed by the mayor and council. Members shall be appointed to serve for staggered four-year periods. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor and council, which shall also have the authority to remove any appointed member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties. One member of the city council shall serve as ex officio member.
(Code 1989, § 14-2)
Sec. 54-28. - Organization; rules; staff; finances.
The planning commission shall elect its chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman shall be one year with eligibility for reelection. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer or employee of the city. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the Central Savannah River Area Regional Development Center, city planners, and other consultants for such services as it may require, subject to the approval of the mayor and council. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the mayor and council.
(Code 1989, § 14-3)
Secs. 54-29—54-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; businesses, ch. 18.

Sec. 54-56. - Findings of fact.
(a)
It has been determined by the mayor and council that there is a need in the city for the revitalization and redevelopment of the central business district to develop and promote for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities and to promote the general welfare of the state by creating a climate favorable to the location of new industry, trade and commerce and the development of existing industry, trade and commerce within the city.
(b)
It has been determined by the mayor and council that revitalization and redevelopment of the central business district by financing projects under the Downtown Development Authorities Law O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq. will develop and promote for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities and will promote the general welfare of the state.
(c)
It has been determined by the mayor and council that it is in the public interest and is vital to the public welfare of the people of the city and of the people of the state to revitalize and redevelop the central business district.
(d)
The Downtown Development Authorities Law O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq. creates in and for each municipal corporation in the state a downtown development authority for the purpose of revitalizing and redeveloping the central business district of such municipal corporation and promoting for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities and promoting the general welfare of the state.
(e)
The mayor and council, after thorough investigation, have determined that it is desirable and necessary that the downtown development authority of the city be activated, pursuant to the Downtown Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq. in order to fulfill the needs expressed in this section.
(f)
There is determined and declared to be a need for a downtown development authority, as more fully described and defined in the Downtown Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq., to function in the city.
Sec. 54-57. - Created.
There is activated in the city the public body corporate and politic known as the downtown development authority of the city, which was created upon the adoption and approval of the Downtown Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq.
(Res. of 10-5-1981)
Sec. 54-58. - Composition.
(a)
There shall be seven members of the board of directors of the downtown development authority. Directors shall be:
(1)
Taxpayers residing in the municipal corporation for which the authority is created;
(2)
Owners or operators of businesses located within the downtown development area and who shall be taxpayers residing in the county in which is located the municipal corporation for which the authority is created; or
(3)
Persons having a combination of the qualifications specified in subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section;
provided, however, that one of such directors may be a member of the governing body of the municipal corporation.
(b)
Not less than four of the directors having the qualifications specified in subsection (a) of this section shall be persons who, in the judgment of the governing body of the municipal corporation, either have or represent a party who has an economic interest in the redevelopment and revitalization of the downtown development area. Successors to the directors shall be appointed by the governing body of the municipal corporation.
(c)
The directors shall elect one of their members as chairman and another as vice chairman and shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer or a secretary-treasurer, either of whom may but need not be a director. The directors shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties. Each authority shall have perpetual existence.
(1)
Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, one director appointed to the board may reside outside the county; provided, however, that such appointed director owns a business within the downtown development area and is a resident of the State of Georgia. If subsequently to his or her appointment to the board pursuant to this subsection, the director ceases to own a business within the downtown development area or reside in the State of Georgia, such director shall relinquish his or her seat on the board.
(d)
Except for a director who is also a member of the governing body of a municipal corporation, each director shall attend and complete at least eight hours of training on downtown development and redevelopment programs within the first 12 months of a director's appointment to the downtown development authority.
(Res. of 10-5-1981; Ord. of 10-14-2013)
Sec. 54-59. - Organization; powers generally.
The board of directors of the downtown development authority shall organize itself, carry out its duties and responsibilities and exercise its powers and prerogatives in accordance with the terms of the Downtown Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq.
Sec. 54-60. - Description of downtown development area.
The downtown development area shall be that geographical area described in this section, of which a current boundary map is on file in the office of the city clerk, which area, in the judgment of the mayor and council, constitutes the central business district, as contemplated by the Downtown Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-42-1 et seq. The property as described below on both sides of the streets (unless otherwise stated) shall be included in the boundaries of the downtown development authority area.
Beginning on the west at the corner of Robert Toombs Avenue and Depot Street the boundaries follow Depot Street south to the Georgia Woodlands Railroad Road. At the Georgia Woodlands Railroad Road the boundary line turns east to Garland Street where it then turns north. Where Garland Street meets Liberty Street the boundary line turns east. The boundary continues east on Liberty Street until it meets Spring Street and then turns south. Where Spring Street meets South Street the line turns east. At the corner of South Street and Jefferson Street the boundary turns north and then proceeds up Jefferson Street until it meets Liberty Street, the line thens turns east on Episcopal Way. The boundary makes a turn north off of Episcopal Way onto Presbyterian Church Alley and proceeds to Robert Toombs Avenue where its then turns west. At the intersection of Robert Toombs Avenue and North Alexander Avenue the boundary line turns north. Continuing north on North Alexander the boundary line turns west at Court Street. Proceeding west on Court one block the line turns north on Jefferson Street. The boundary continues one more block to North Street and turns west and follows North Street until it dead ends. The boundary line then picks back up on Allison Street and then turns south and continues to Robert Toombs Avenue. At the intersection of Allison and Robert Toombs Avenue the line turns west onto Robert Toombs Avenue. The boundary line continues west on Robert Toombs Avenue until it reaches the point of beginning at Depot Street.
(Res. of 10-5-1981; Ord. of 12-14-1998)
Sec. 54-61. - Intent.
The action taken by the mayor and council under this article is not intended in any way to affect any public corporation, industrial development or payroll authority previously created by legislative act or constitutional amendment.
