Chapter 62 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; environment, ch. 26; health and sanitation, ch. 38; deposits of garbage, trash or weeds, § 38-1; dumping, depositing or negligently causing litter, § 46-10; utilities, ch. 82; supplemental zoning regulations for sewage, rubbish and other liquid and solid waste, § 90-637.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 62-1—62-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Authority to employ persons for hauling, collecting, destroying waste and garbage, § 68.

Sec. 62-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Construction debris means any scrap lumber, brick, concrete block, concrete, siding, roofing or any other material used in the construction of a building.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks and including solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operators or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. of 1-14-2019)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 62-27. - Garbage containers required; storage of refuse.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed in or on any street, alley or public place within the city any trash, paper, grass, leaves, limbs, hedge or other cuttings, except for collection, or any rubbish of any kind except regular kitchen garbage, empty cans, bottles, etc.
(b)
Any garbage excepted in subsection (a) of this section shall be placed in a suitable receptacle in a convenient place on or near the street or alley for the removal of its contents by the garbage collectors.
(c)
In the residential areas of the city, garbage and trash shall be kept in yards out of sight.
(Code 1989, § 10-30)
State Law reference— Disposal of dead animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.
Sec. 62-28. - Placement and disposal of yard trimmings.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the city.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at any municipal solid waste disposal facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the city.
Sec. 62-29. - Sorting, storing and collecting yard trimmings.
(a)
All metal debris, furnishings, grass clipping, limbs and leaves shall be sorted in separate piles when placed out for collection.
(b)
Limbs placed for dumptruck pickup can not exceed six feet in length.
(c)
All limbs longer than six feet, which shall be chipped by the city for collection, shall be placed in one direction as to not interfere with traffic. Any waste generated by a contractor shall be disposed of by the contractor.
(d)
There will be a fee for collecting all debris, not including regular yard waste, which exceeds one dumptruck load or one-half chipper truck load.
(e)
Grass clippings shall be bagged in plastic bags for pickup. All containers shall be placed at the curb for pickup.
(f)
Leaves placed for pickup shall be clean of any other debris and neatly piled.
(Mo. of 11-18-2004)
Sec. 62-30. - Scavenging.
It shall be unlawful for any person, unless officially authorized by the city, to engage in scavenging, rummaging, or sifting through garbage containers placed in various places at outdoor pickup locations within the city for collection of garbage.
(Code 1989, § 10-34)
Sec. 62-31. - Refuse collection rates.
Refuse collection rates shall be as prescribed by the mayor and council from time to time and filed in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1989, § 10-32)
Sec. 62-32. - Construction debris.
The city will not pick up any construction debris of any kind, generators of construction debris are responsible for disposing of these materials.
(Ord. of 1-14-2019)
Sec. 62-33. - Tires.
The city will not pick up used tires for disposal.
(Ord. of 1-14-2019)
