Chapter 30 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Licensing of handlers of explosive, combustible, flammable materials, § 32; authority to establish fire department, § 58; authority to regulate storage and keeping of explosives, flammable material, § 59.
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; civil emergencies, ch. 22; distance of trees from fire hydrants, § 86-93.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Police power of firefighters.
All firefighters of the city fire department shall be vested with full police power at all fires.
(Code 1989, § 8-1)
Sec. 30-2. - Right of entry of fire inspector.
Every owner or occupant of a commercial building is required to permit the fire inspector of the fire department or such inspector's representative to inspect his building at reasonable times to determine whether there is compliance with this chapter, and it is the duty of the inspector of the fire department to make such inspections whenever and wherever there is a suspected violation of this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 8-2)
Sec. 30-3. - Charges for extraterritorial fire calls.
If a list of subscribers for fire calls outside the city is established, the rate for fire protection shall be as set by the mayor and council.
(Code 1989, § 8-3)
Sec. 30-4. - Rules and regulations of state safety fire commissioner adopted.
The rules and regulations promulgated for the prevention of destruction of life and property by fire, explosion and related hazards in this state by the state safety fire commissioner, under authority of the powers vested in and duties imposed upon such safety fire commissioner by the laws of the state, are adopted as the rules and regulations of this city.
(Code 1989, § 8-4)
Sec. 30-5. - Entering block where fire occurring or where firefighters laying hose.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except duly authorized members of the fire department, police officers and other city officials on duty, to enter any city block with any automobile, truck, or other vehicle in which the fire department is fighting any fire or laying fire hose for the purpose of fighting any fire or for practice.
(Code 1989, § 8-6)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 78.
Sec. 30-6. - Blocking traffic on streets leading to fire.
It shall be unlawful for any person to block or otherwise restrict traffic on any street leading to any city block where a fire is occurring.
(Code 1989, § 8-7)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 78.
Sec. 30-7. - Use of fire hydrants.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any fire hydrant or other connections with the city water mains for any purpose except such as is authorized by the mayor and council.
(b)
Fire hydrants shall not be used for any purpose except protection against fire.
(Code 1989, § 8-8)
Sec. 30-8. - Outdoor burning permits.
(a)
Required. No person shall conduct any open burning without first obtaining a permit from the fire department.
(b)
Permitted burning actions. Only the following types of burning, in accordance with the state environmental protection division regulations for air quality control, will be allowed:
(1)
Burning of vegetative matter for agricultural purposes for production or harvesting of crops.
(2)
Burning of forestland for timber production and pastureland for pasture improvements.
(3)
Small fires for outside workers to keep warm. Burning manmade materials or treated wood that could cause dense smoke is prohibited.
(4)
Operating devices using open flame such as tar kettles, blow torches, welding torches, and other flame-making equipment.
(5)
Burning for the cooking of food for immediate consumption and recreational activities.
(6)
Burning for firefighter training.
(7)
Land clearing debris from right-of-way clearing and construction activities when:
a.
Prevailing winds are away from populated areas.
b.
The burning material is at least 1,000 feet from any dwelling located in a predominantly residential area.
c.
Dirt is minimized in the burning material.
d.
Not more than one pile, 60 feet by 60 feet, in a nine-acre or equivalent volume/area ratio, is burning at one time.
e.
No tires, asphaltic materials, heavy oils or items containing natural or synthetic rubber or plastics or any other material that is not plant growth.
(c)
Prohibited burning. Prohibited burning actions, in accordance with the state environmental protection division regulations for air quality control, are as follows:
(1)
Burning of tires, synthetic material or other materials that give off malodorous, heavy smoke emissions.
(2)
Burning of garbage.
(3)
Open burning of any material which exceeds 40 opacity of smoke density.
(4)
Open burning of leaves.
(d)
Actions not requiring permit. Permitted burning actions under subsections (b)(3), (4) and (5) of this section do not require a permit.
(e)
Permitted hours. Any permitted open burning, whenever feasible, must be conducted between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(f)
Air pollution. Any open burning causing air pollution in quantities or characteristics or of duration which is injurious or which unreasonably interferes with the enjoyment of life or use of property must be ceased.
(g)
Dangerous weather conditions. During any weather condition determined by the fire department as dangerous because of fire or air pollution, the fire department shall issue a no burning order.
(h)
Air curtain destructors. Any use of air curtain destructors shall be in accordance with environmental protection department rules for air quality control.
(Code 1989, § 8-9)
State Law reference— Georgia Air Quality Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1 et seq.
Sec. 30-9. - User fees for delivery of emergency fire department services.
(a)
Purposes. The Washington Fire Department response activity to motor vehicle accidents and structure fires continues to increase each year and, along with new regulations, places increasing demands and costs on the Washington Fire Department. The Washington Fire Department has investigated different methods for maintaining a high level of quality fire department emergency services throughout times of constantly increasing service demands, and have determined that an effective response by the Washington Fire Department decreases the cost to insurance companies by saving lives and minimizing damage by fire. Raising the real property tax to meet the increase in service demands is inequitable, when many motor vehicular accidents involve individuals not owning property or paying property taxes in the jurisdiction of the Washington Fire Department. The mayor and city council of Washington desire to implement a fair and equitable procedure by which to collect user fees by establishing a billing system in accordance with state and federal laws, regulations and guidelines, for emergency services provided by the Washington Fire Department.
(b)
Motor vehicle accidents. The Washington Fire Department, at the option of the governing authority of the fire department, is hereby authorized to initiate a user fee for the delivery of emergency services, personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of motor vehicle accidents. The rate of the fee shall be the usual, customary and reasonable costs (UCR) for such emergency services, which include, but are not limited to, any services, personnel, supplies and equipment used by the Washington Fire Department in response to the motor vehicle accident and may fluctuate based on the needs of the accident. The user fee shall be presented to the motor vehicle, commercial or homeowner's insurance carrier of the owner of a vehicle, owner of the property, or party responsible for the accident, and shall represent an add-on-cost of the claim for damages to the vehicle, property and/or injuries to the occupants.
(c)
Structure fires. The Washington Fire Department, at the option of the governing authority of the fire department, is hereby authorized to initiate a user fee for the delivery of emergency services, personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of structure fires. The rate of the fee shall be the usual, customary and reasonable costs (UCR) for such services, which include, but are not limited to, any services, personnel, supplies and equipment used by the Washington Fire Department in response to the fire and may fluctuate based on the needs of the fire. The user fee shall be presented to the commercial or homeowner's insurance carrier of the owner of the property or party responsible for the fire, and shall represent an add-on-cost of the claim for damages to the property and/or injuries to the occupants.
(d)
Oil and/or hazardous materials. The Washington Fire Department, at the option of the governing authority of the fire department, is hereby authorized to initiate a user fee for the delivery of emergency services, personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene of an incident involving oil and/or hazardous materials. The rate of the user fee shall be the usual, customary and reasonable costs (UCR) for such emergency services, which include, but are not limited to, any services, personnel, supplies and equipment used by the Washington Fire Department in response to an incident involving oil and/or hazardous materials and may fluctuate based on the needs of the incident. The user fee shall be presented to the motor vehicle, commercial or homeowner's insurance carrier of the owner of the property or party responsible for the incident, and shall represent an add-on-cost of the claim for damages to the property and/or injuries to the occupants.
(e)
Authorization. The Washington Fire Department or their designees are hereby authorized to execute any and all documents and/or implement any and all procedures necessary to effectuate the collection of the user fee in order to enhance services by the Washington Fire Department.
(f)
Fees collected. All fees collected per this section shall be placed into the City of Washington General Fund as revenue under the Washington Fire Department account to be used for personnel, supplies and equipment for the Washington Fire Department.
(Ord. of 9-10-2007, §§ 101—106)
Secs. 30-10—30-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE

Sec. 30-36. - Appeal from decision disapproving application or refusing permit.
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for or when it is claimed that the provisions of the fire prevention code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the mayor and council within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Code 1989, § 8-22)
