Chapter 86 - VEGETATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; environment, ch. 26; unlawful accumulation of weeds and noxious vegetation, § 38-2; historical preservation, ch. 42; parks and recreation, ch. 50; planning, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 66; subdivisions, ch. 70.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 86-1—86-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TREES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 86-26. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Board means the city tree board established in division 2 of this article.
Park trees means trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city or to which the public has free access as parks.
Street trees means trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land lying between property lines on either side of all streets and other public ways within the city.
(Code 1989, § 15-20)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 86-27. - Arborist's license.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing any street or park trees within the city without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee, as specified in the city license schedule in chapter 18, shall be paid annually in advance. However, no license shall be required of any public service company or city employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors.
(Code 1989, § 15-28(a))
Cross reference— Licensing and registration generally, § 18-26 et seq.
Secs. 86-28—86-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - TREE BOARD[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 86-56. - Created and established; composition; appointment.
There is created and established a city tree board, which shall consist of five members who are residents of this city, who shall be appointed by the mayor and council.
(Code 1989, § 15-21)
Sec. 86-57. - Terms of office; vacancies.
The five persons appointed by the mayor and council on the tree board shall serve three-year staggered terms. If a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, a successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Code 1989, § 15-22)
Sec. 86-58. - Compensation.
Members of the tree board shall serve without compensation.
(Code 1989, § 15-23)
Sec. 86-59. - Organization.
The tree board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Code 1989, § 15-24)
Sec. 86-60. - Duties.
It shall be the duty of the tree board to study, investigate, counsel and develop or update annually and administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the mayor and council and upon its acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the city. The board, when requested by the mayor and council, shall consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
(Code 1989, § 15-25)
Sec. 86-61. - Review of acts; appeals.
(a)
The mayor and council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions of the city tree board and make changes as they deem appropriate.
(b)
Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the city tree board to the mayor and council, which may hear the matter and make a final decision.
(Code 1989, § 15-26)
Sec. 86-62. - Interference by others.
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the city tree board or any of its agents while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this article.
(Code 1989, § 15-27)
Secs. 86-63—86-90. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - TREES ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY

Sec. 86-91. - Species to be planted.
The following list constitutes the official street tree species for the city; no species other than those included in this list may be planted as street trees without written permission of the city tree board:
(1)
Small trees.
Apricot
Crabapple, flowering
Dogwood
Golden rain tree
Hawthorne
Pear, Bradford
Redbud
Soapberry
Lilac, Japanese
Beech, flowering
Plum
Purpleless
(2)
Medium trees.
Ash, green
Hackberry
Honey locust (thornless)
Linden or basswood
Mulberry, red (fruitless, male)
Oak, English
Oak, red
Pagoda tree, Japanese
Pecan
Birch, river
Osage orange (male, thornless)
Persimmon
Poplar, white
Sassafras
(3)
Large trees.
Coffeetree, Kentucky
Maple, silver
Maple, sugar
Oak, bur
Sycamore
Sycamore, London plantree
Cottonwood (cottonless, male)
(Code 1989, § 15-29)
Sec. 86-92. - Spacing.
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in section 86-91, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect.
(Code 1989, § 15-30)
Sec. 86-93. - Distance from street corners and fire hydrants.
No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet to any fire hydrant.
(Code 1989, § 15-32)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 30.
Sec. 86-94. - Utilities.
(a)
No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in section 86-91 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
(b)
The city and each utility which operates with the approval of the city retain the right to trim all trees which obstruct proper utilization of utility services.
(Code 1989, § 15-33)
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 82.
Sec. 86-95. - Public tree care.
(a)
The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
(b)
The city tree board, subject to approval of the mayor and council, may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which because of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements or which is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
(c)
This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of such trees is in accordance with sections 86-91 through 86-94.
(Code 1989, § 15-34)
Sec. 86-96. - Topping.
It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person or any city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and as to disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this section at the determination of the city tree board.
(Code 1989, § 15-35)
Sec. 86-97. - Pruning, corner clearance.
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the light from any streetlamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk. Such owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility at intersections or of any traffic control device or sign.
(Code 1989, § 15-36)
Sec. 86-98. - Dead or diseased tree removal on private property.
The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased tree on private property within the city, when such tree constitutes a hazard to life and property or when such tree harbors insects or disease that constitutes a potential threat to other trees within the city. The city tree board will notify in writing the owner of any such tree. Removal shall be done by such owner at his own expense within 60 days after the date of service of the notice. If the owner fails to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the authority to remove such tree and charge the cost of removal on the owner's property tax notice.
(Code 1989, § 15-37)
Sec. 86-99. - Removal of stumps.
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground.
(Code 1989, § 15-38)
