Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Ordinances, City of Washington, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1989, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council:
Charter. The term "Charter" shall mean the Charter of the city in part I of this volume, as it exists or as it may be amended in the future.
City. The term "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the phrase "of Washington" followed it.
Code. Whenever the term "Code" or "this Code" is referred to without further qualification, it shall mean the Code of Ordinances, City of Washington, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted. If the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
County. The term "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Wilkes.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires a city official or officer or the head of a city department to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the official or officer or head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing one gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any section of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Mayor and council. Whenever the term "mayor and council" is used, it shall mean the governing body of this city.
Month. The term "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things, as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation, and the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended from time to time.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to individuals, proprietorships, associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used it shall mean place or places.
Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available or accessible to the public.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as such person's place of habitation and to which, whenever such person is absent, such person has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed such person's residence.
Seal. The term "seal" shall mean the city seal, the seal of the corporation.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" of a person shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as well as the past and present.
Title of officer. Whenever the title of an officer is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Washington" follows it.
Week. The term "week" shall mean seven days.
Written, in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" shall include any representation of words, letters or numerals, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1989, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-3. - Section catchlines and other headings.
(a)
Catchlines. The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of such sections nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchline, is amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid because of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, article or division.
(b)
History notes. The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
(c)
Editor's notes and references. The editor's notes, Charter references, cross references and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
(Code 1989, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1989, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(b)
Amendments to any of the sections of this Code may be made by amending such section by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section of the Code of Ordinances, City of Washington, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provision may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of Washington, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____ which section shall read as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1989, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the term "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ through _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1989, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council, that will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented.
(Code 1989, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any city ordinance any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided, the violation of such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and costs, by imprisonment in the county jail or the city jail for not more than six months, by work in the labor force on the public streets or on public works for not more than 180 days, or by any one or more of these punishments, subject to all limitations contained in the Charter. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in subsection (a) of this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the city as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1989, § 1-8)
Charter reference— Authority, § 11; jurisdiction of municipal court, § 42; posting bail, etc., §§ 41, 42.
Sec. 1-9. - Judgments and sentences to run consecutively.
All judgments and sentences imposed and ordered by the judge of the municipal court shall run consecutively unless otherwise specifically provided by the judge of such court in such judgments and sentences.
(Code 1989, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Forfeiture of appearance bond; procedure.
(a)
It shall be lawful to forfeit any bond in the same manner as is practiced in the superior court in cases of appearance bonds, upon failure of any party or witness to appear who is under bond. The duties in such case devolving in the superior court upon the district attorney, clerk and sheriff shall be performed by the attorney employed by the city, the city clerk and chief of police, respectively.
(b)
The city clerk shall issue a scire facias on all forfeited bonds and recognizances whether the bonds and recognizances were for appearance before the municipal court or before the mayor and council, returnable to a regular meeting of the mayor and council against the principal and sureties, which shall be served by the chief of police or any police officer at least ten days before the return thereof. If the party resides out of the city, scire facias may be served by the publication one time in a public gazette in the city at least ten days before the return thereof.
(c)
If at the regular meeting of the mayor and council to which the scire facias is returnable, no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, judgment shall be entered against such principal and sureties, such of them as have been served.
(d)
Such judgment so rendered shall be a lien on the property of the defendants from the date of rendition, and shall be enforced by execution to be issued by the recorder, which may be levied by the chief of police or any other city police officer.
(e)
The sales under such execution shall be governed by the laws controlling tax sales by municipal corporations, except that the sale shall be absolute and the property not subject to be redeemed.
(f)
The clerk shall enter all proceedings in each case on the minutes of the mayor and council.
(g)
The costs taxed against defendants shall be the same as allowed on execution for taxes.
(Code 1989, § 1-10)
Charter reference— Authority to take and approve appearance bond, cash bond, § 44.
State Law reference— Avoidance of forfeiture, O.C.G.A. §§ 9-10-11, 17-6-72; similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 15-18-1 et seq.; cash bonds for offenses against municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-10 et seq.; proceedings to forfeit bonds or recognizances, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-70 et seq.; judgment against bail, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-71.
Sec. 1-11. - Bond required to appeal municipal court verdict to mayor and council.
Any person requesting a hearing before the mayor and council of a verdict rendered in the municipal court must post a supersedeas bond, in cash or surety, double the amount of the fine. The supersedeas bond shall be refunded to the person requesting the hearing upon his appearance at the hearing at the time designated by the mayor and council. If the party requesting the appeal hearing fails to appear at the designated time, after having been notified of the time and date by certified mail, the amount of the supersedeas bond shall be forfeited and shall be handled as a part of the fine imposed by the municipal court.
(Code 1989, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-12. - Continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1989, § 1-12)
Sec. 1-13. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code or its application to any persons or circumstances shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code or their application, since such would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1989, § 1-13)
Sec. 1-14. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(3)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones.
(4)
Any ordinance consistent with this Code fixing salaries of city officials, officers or employees.
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance; any ordinance levying any tax.
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution to any person.
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city.
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for such.
(11)
Any ordinance establishing or changing the boundary of the city.
(12)
Any rezoning ordinance.
(13)
Any ordinance enacted after August 10, 1998.
(b)
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1989, § 1-14)
