ARTICLE 4. - ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES

Sec. 4.1. - Establishment of districts.
In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this appendix, the City of Luthersville is hereby divided into the following districts:
EXPAND
RD Rural Development District
R-45 Single-Family Residential
R-66 Single-Family Residential
GC General Commercial
GI General Industry
HO Historic Overlay
WS Water Resource District
  4.1-1.
Rural Development District (RD). This district is intended to permit a combination of low density residential uses of various types, limited agricultural activities and associated uses. The regulations of this district are designed primarily to encourage a compatible relationship between agriculture and low density, single-family rural residential development.
4.1-2.
Single-Family Residential (R-45). The purpose of this district is to accommodate low density single-family residences.
4.1-3.
Single-Family Residential (R-66). The purpose of this district is to provide low density single-family residences and duplex housing.
4.1-4.
General Commercial (GC). The purpose of this district is to provide appropriate locations for a wide variety of commercial activities that will serve a large market area. This district will generally be located along the major arterial highways or where these highways meet. Emphasis is on creating commercial nodes rather than strip developments.
4.1-5.
General Industrial District (GI). The purpose of this district is to provide suitable areas for warehousing, distribution, manufacturing and other intensive activities of an industrial nature.
4.1-6.
Historic Overlay (HO). The purpose of this district is to identify and protect the historical areas of the City of Luthersville.
4.1-7.
Water Resource District (WS). The purpose of this district is to identify and protect wetlands and groundwater recharge areas located inside the incorporated limits of the City of Luthersville.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, ยง 4.1, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 4.2. - Zoning district map.
The boundaries of zoning districts are shown upon the map designated as the zoning district map. The zoning district map and all notations, references, and other information shown thereon are a part of this appendix and have the same force and effect as if the zoning district map and all the notations, references and other information shown thereon were fully set forth and described in the text of this appendix. This zoning district map is properly attested and is on display at the city hall.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, ยง 4.2, 4-10-2001)
Sec. 4.3. - District boundaries.
4.3-1
The district boundaries shown on the zoning district map are generally intended to follow streets, alleys or lot lines; where the districts designated on said map are bounded by such street, alley or lot line, the centerline of the street, alley or lot line shall be the boundary of the district, unless such boundary is otherwise indicated on the map. In all other cases, the district boundary line shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the zoning district map.
4.3-2
When the boundary line of a district divides a lot or tract held in single ownership at the time of the adoption of this appendix, the boundary line of the least restrictive zoning district may be allowed to extend a distance of not more than 50 feet to the adjoining zoning district.
(Ord. No. 2001-07, ยง 4.3, 4-10-2001)
