CHAPTER 5. - MUNICIPAL COURT[10]
Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Cross reference— Establishment of municipal court, appointment and qualifications of judge, jurisdiction, etc., City Charter, Art. VI.

ARTICLE A. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 2-5-1. - Time, place for holding court.
(a)
The chief judge of the municipal court shall convene court on Wednesday between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. in the morning, and from 1:30 p.m. until 5:00 p.m. in the afternoon.
(b)
In the event that there is insufficient time within which to dispose of cases pending, or in the event that a national holiday falls on said date, the chief judge may convene such additional court sessions as may be necessary in order that all cases may be tried or otherwise disposed of in a timely manner.
(c)
The assistant municipal court judge assigned to the environmental division shall convene court on Thursday between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. in the morning, and further, shall have the same authority as that given to the chief judge in subsection 2-5-1(b) hereinabove.
(1)
Sessions of the environmental division of the municipal court shall be convened at 785 Forest Parkway, Forest Park, Georgia, or at such other times and places as the chief judge of the municipal court shall designate.
(Code 1986, § 2-5-1, as amended by Ord. No. 88-013, 9-19-88; Ord. No. 96-004, 2-19-96)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 88-013 rewrote the above section in its entirety to provide specifically for the time and place for court.
Sec. 2-5-2. - Contents of copies of charges.
All copies of charges requiring persons to appear in the municipal court shall be properly dated the day they are issued, and shall be signed by the officer making the case, and shall notify the person summoned of the day and hour for his appearance and the charges against the accused.
Sec. 2-5-3. - Disposal of cases.
Every case entered on the municipal court docket shall be promptly disposed of by the court on the call of the case in its regular order or as soon thereafter as is reasonable by trial, continuance, dismissal, forfeiture of bond, attachment for contempt or by any other lawful order or judgment.
(Code 1959, § 14-7)
Sec. 2-5-4. - Summons—Issuance.
(a)
It shall be the duty of any member of the police department, in all cases where complaint is made or information obtained of any violation of any of the laws or ordinances of the city, to issue a summons, bearing test in the name of the city and directed to the accused, requiring him to appear before the municipal court to answer such charge, which summons shall designate the time and place of trial. It shall be signed by the patrolman or officer issuing same and a copy thereof shall be served upon the accused either personally or by leaving a copy at his place of residence by the issuing officer.
(b)
It shall be the duty of any code enforcement officer as set forth in section 2-3-8 of this Code, in all cases where complaint is made or information obtained of any violations of the ordinances of the city or of a party's failure to comply with the ordinance of the city, to issue a summons bearing test in the name of the city and directed to the accused, requiring him to appear before the environmental division of the municipal court to answer such charge, which summons shall designate the time and place of trial. It shall be signed by the code enforcement officer issuing same and a copy thereof shall be served upon the accused either personally or by leaving the copy at his place of residence by the issuing code enforcement officer.
(Code 1959, § 14-8; Ord. No. 96-004, 2-19-96)
Sec. 2-5-5. - Same—Contempt for failure to appear.
Any person summoned as provided herein who shall fail, neglect or refuse to appear, or to make a satisfactory showing for such failure, neglect or refusal to appear and answer the charge specified, may be punished as provided in section 4.13 of the city charter. The case may be continued to such time as the municipal court may direct, and the court shall issue an order requiring the chief of police, or other member of the police force, to arrest the offender and bring him before the court to answer the contempt, and it shall be the duty of such police chief to keep the offender in custody until he is brought before the court, unless he gives bond for his appearance as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 96-004, 2-19-96)
Sec. 2-5-6. - Rights of accused.
Any person charged with an offense against any of the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the city shall be informed by summons in writing served on him of the nature of the cause of his accusation; shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his behalf; shall have a speedy trial before the judge; shall be confronted with the witnesses against him and have the privilege of cross-examination, as in the superior courts of the state; and shall have the privilege of defending himself, by counsel or by himself, or both, as to him shall seem proper. No one shall be condemned, fined or punished without full opportunity of being heard in his own defense.
(Code 1959, § 14-10)
Sec. 2-5-7. - Witnesses—Subpoenas.
Whenever the attendance of any witness may be required before the municipal court to establish any fact, the court or the clerk of court, or the deputy clerk of the environmental division of the municipal court, or such person as designated by the municipal judge shall issue a subpoena directed to the witness, stating the time and place of trial and the parties to the case, which shall be served as other process by the chief of police, or other officer, policeman or code enforcement officer.
(Ord. No. 96-004, 2-19-96)
Sec. 2-5-8. - Same—Contempt for failure to appear.
If any person summoned as a witness shall fail, neglect or refuse to attend the trial, or render an excuse, insufficient in the judgment of the judge, the defaulting witness shall be liable to such punishment as provided by the city charter for contempt. If the case shall be continued on account of the absence of the witness, the court may issue attachment against the witness, requiring him to show cause on the day appointed for trial, why he should not be further dealt with for contempt. The chief of police shall, by virtue of the attachment, arrest such witness, or cause him to be arrested by some other officer or police officer, and shall confine him, so as to have him before the judge at such time as may be appointed for further hearing of the original complaint.
Sec. 2-5-9. - Continuances.
Where the ends of justice may require, all cases may be continued. Applications for continuance shall be addressed to the sound discretion of the judge, under the rules governing in the superior courts of this state. All motions in the municipal court for a continuance of any case, where the defendant is at liberty on bond shall be made by the defendant, his attorney at law or his attorney in fact, which designation shall not include the surety of his appearance bond. No motion to continue a case shall be entertained except in open court and on the day set for trial. Where an appearance bond has been forfeited and the forfeiture is subsequently set aside for cause, no further motion to continue the case for trial shall be entertained until a forfeiture fee as provided in the schedule of court fees has been paid.
(Code 1959, § 14-13)
Sec. 2-5-10. - Rules of practice.
The rules of evidence and examination of witnesses shall be the same as in the superior courts, so far as such rules are applicable to the case on trial. All officers, informers and persons injured shall be competent witnesses. In general, the municipal court shall be controlled by the rules of practice governing the superior courts, so far as they are applicable to municipal courts, and by a sound construction of the charter and ordinances of the city.
Sec. 2-5-11. - Contempt.
Any person who, during a session of the municipal court or any division thereof, shall be guilty of a contempt of court, or who refuses to abide by any sentence or order of the court, shall be punished as provided in section 4.13 of the city charter or section 1-1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 96-004, 2-19-96)
Sec. 2-5-12. - Docket—Required.
(a)
A court record of all cases coming before the court clerk and made by persons other than code enforcement officers, shall be kept in the office of the court clerk, records bureau, on which shall appear the name of every defendant charged with a violation of this code or any city ordinance, and at the trial of all cases in the municipal court, the court clerk or other designated person shall record on the original copy of charges the punishment inflicted and the date, and an entry shall be made under the judge's sentence showing the final disposition of the case, that is, whether the fine, if any, was collected, the date of such collection and the disposition of such amounts. The original copy of charges, showing the within described information, shall constitute the permanent record of the court and shall be maintained in the order as directed by the judge.
(b)
A court record of all cases issued by code enforcement officers and coming before the deputy clerk of the environmental division of the municipal court shall be kept in the office of said deputy clerk, on which shall appear the name of every defendant charged with a violation of any city ordinance, and at the trial of all cases in the environmental division of the municipal court, the deputy court clerk or other designated person shall record on the original copy of the charges the punishment inflicted and the date, and an entry shall be made under the judge's sentence showing the final disposition of the case, that is, whether the fine, if any, was collected, the date of such collection and the disposition of such amounts. The original copy of charges, showing the within described information, shall constitute the permanent record of the environmental division of the municipal court and shall be maintained in the order as directed by the assistant judge of the municipal court with the approval of the chief judge of the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 96-004, 2-19-96)
Sec. 2-5-13. - Same—Docketing under false name.
All cases must be docketed in the correct name of the accused where such name is ascertainable and shall correctly describe the offense charged. The docketing of a defendant under a false or assumed name, or under a false charge, shall be sufficient ground for the removal of any officer guilty thereof who has any knowledge of the true name or the true charge.
(Code 1959, § 14-17)
Sec. 2-5-14. - Trying person under fictitious name.
It shall be unlawful for the judge to knowingly try a person under a feigned name, where he has reason to believe a fraud is being practiced on the court and on the public.
Sec. 2-5-15. - Court costs.
(a)
The costs in all cases tried before the municipal court shall be set at the discretion of the judge or by resolution of the mayor and council.
(b)
The costs may be charged and collected from the defendant upon conviction or forfeiture at the discretion of the judge.
State Law reference— Payments made from fines and bonds to peace officers' annuity and benefit fund and such other fund as required by the state code, O.C.G.A., § 47-17-60.
Sec. 2-5-16. - Appearance bonds.
(a)
The officer on duty and in charge of the police station when any arrest is made may take bond with or without security, as per schedule, payable to the city, for the appearance of any person accused or suspected of being guilty of the violation of any ordinance of the city, to stand to and abide his trial; and also of witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced.
(b)
If any arrested person or necessary witness shall fail to give the bond and security required of him, such person so refusing may be confined in the jail of the city or the common jail of the county, or be kept under guard so as to be present at his trial or to testify as the case may be.
(c)
All bail taken under the provisions of this section shall be special bail and the power of the security over the principal shall be the same as in special bail. Upon failure of any principal in any bond to appear where such principal is charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the city or upon the failure of any principal, who is a witness, to appear and testify as engaged, the judge of the municipal court shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on such bond or recognizance to show cause before him on any date named therein, not to be less than ten (10) days from the passage of such rule, why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond or recognizance and all costs of forfeiture.
(d)
Any member of the police force of the city shall serve a copy of the rule described in subsection (c) upon the principal and surety, if to be found in the city, personally or by leaving a copy at their usual place of abode, at least five (5) days before the time named therein for hearing the cause.
(e)
If no sufficient cause is shown to the contrary, the judge of the municipal court shall proceed to enter up judgment against the principal and sureties for the amount of such bond and costs, and the court clerk shall issue execution for the amount of the judgment and costs, which execution shall bear teste in the name of the judge, and place the same in the hands of the chief of police who shall proceed to collect the same by levy and sale.
(f)
Any surety upon any bail bond of any person charged with a violation of any provision of this code or other ordinance of the city may petition the judge at any time for release, and if such release is granted, the judge shall issue an order to the chief of police of the city, who shall confine such principal until discharged by order of the municipal court, or until such principal shall give other good and acceptable security and such release shall discharge such surety from all liability upon the bond.
(g)
No officer of the city shall accept on any bail bond any surety residing beyond the limits of the county except as authorized by the court, but in case he shall do so, the surety will be bound and upon entry of judgment against such surety, the judgment shall be collected as provided by law.
(h)
If the person arrested shall fail to appear at the place and time of trial so appointed, it shall be the duty of the judge to declare any pledge forfeited and to order the money to be paid into the city treasury as in other fines and forfeitures if it has not already been deposited in such treasury. If the person so arrested shall appear as engaged and is adjudged not guilty, the money and the property thus deposited shall be ordered by court delivered up to the person depositing same. Should any accused person be adjudged guilty and fined on his trial the amount of the fine and costs of the trial shall be paid into the city treasury, and the remainder, if any, refunded to the accused or to the person entitled thereto.
(Code 1959, §§ 14-29—14-35)
Sec. 2-5-17. - Appointment and duties of municipal court judges.
(a)
The mayor and council may appoint a chief judge to preside over the city's municipal court.
(1)
The chief judge shall be responsible for the general supervision of the municipal court and shall promulgate all rules necessary for the supervision, conduct, and administration of the court.
(2)
A member of the governing body shall nominate any qualified person for the office of chief judge, said nomination shall be seconded, and, in the event more than one (1) qualified person is nominated, the person obtaining the vote of the majority of the governing body shall be appointed chief judge.
(b)
The governing body shall also appoint an assistant judge who shall preside over sessions of a division of the municipal court to be known as the environmental division.
(1)
Said appointment shall follow the same procedure for appointment as that of the chief judge.
(c)
The governing body shall also appoint as many judges pro tempore as it may deem necessary from time to time.
(1)
Said appointments shall follow the same procedure for appointment as that of the chief judge.
(2)
Such judges pro tempore shall be acting chief municipal court judge or assistant municipal court judge in the absence, disability or disqualification of such judges.
The judges pro tempore shall have all the powers and perform all the duties of the chief or assistant judge.
(Ord. No. 17-07, § 1, 2-20-2017)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-07, § 1, adopted Feb. 20, 2017, repealed the former section and enacted a new section as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter. For prior history, see Ordinance Disposition Table.
Sec. 2-5-18. - Terms of municipal court judges.
Municipal judges shall serve a term of one year, unless modified by written agreement between the governing body and the judges, which agreements shall otherwise comply with state law.
(Ord. No. 17-07, § 2, 2-20-2017)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-07, § 2, adopted Feb. 20, 2017, repealed the former section and enacted a new section as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter. For prior history, see Ordinance Disposition Table.
Sec. 2-5-18.1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-07, § 3, adopted Feb. 20, 2017, repealed § 2-5-18.1, which pertained to municipal court judge pro tem, and derived from Ord. No. 17-01, § 3, adopted Jan. 3, 2017.
Sec. 2-5-19. - Compensation of municipal court judges.
The amount and frequency of compensation of municipal judges shall be established from time to time by resolution of the governing authority.
(Ord. No. 17-07, § 4, 2-20-2017)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-07, § 4, adopted Feb. 20, 2017, repealed the former section and enacted a new section as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter. For prior history, see Ordinance Disposition Table.
Sec. 2-5-20. - Environmental division of municipal court; records; deputy clerk; reporting.
(a)
The environmental division of the municipal court is charged with the responsibility of adjudicating those cases made for violations of the city ordinances by code enforcement officers. All matters coming before this division of the municipal court shall remain under the general supervision of the chief judge of the municipal court.
(b)
Records of all proceedings conducted by the environmental division of the municipal court, including but not limited to dockets, original citations and records of disposition thereof, sentences, assessments of fines, punishment and performance or payment thereof, shall be maintained by the environmental division of the municipal court and not merged with the records of the municipal court. However, a copy of the docket book shall be maintained in the offices of the clerk of the municipal court.
(c)
A person shall be designated by the chief judge of the municipal court to serve in the capacity of deputy clerk of the environmental division of the municipal court, and that person shall be charged with the same responsibilities within the confines of the environmental division of the municipal court as are charged to the clerk of the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 96-004, 2-19-96)
ARTICLE B. - TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Cross reference— Handling of traffic violations, § 10-4-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-5-21. - Created; administration; schedule of fines.
There is hereby established a traffic violations bureau to assist the court with the clerical work of traffic cases and the disposition of the same. Such bureau shall have such duties and responsibilities as the judge and the chief of police designate. The judge shall designate specific offenses in respect to which payments of fines may be accepted by the traffic violations bureau (or person so designated as herein set forth) in satisfaction thereof, and shall specify by suitable schedules the amount of such fines for first, second and subsequent offenses, provided such fines are within the limits declared by law or ordinance, and shall further specify what number of such offenses shall require appearances before the judge.
Sec. 2-5-22. - Duties of bureau.
The following duties are hereby imposed upon the traffic violations bureau in reference to traffic offenses:
(1)
It shall accept designated fines, issue receipts, and represent in court such violators as are permitted and desire to plead guilty, waive court appearance, and give power of attorney.
(2)
It shall receive and issue receipts for cash bail from the persons who must or wish to be heard in court, enter the time of their appearance on the court docket, and notify the arresting officer and witnesses, if any, to be present.
(3)
It shall keep an easily accessible record of all violations of which each person has been guilty during the preceding twelve (12) months, whether such guilt was established in court or in the traffic violations bureau.
(Code 1959, § 20-241)
Sec. 2-5-23. - Records.
The traffic violations bureau shall keep records of all the fines collected by the traffic violations bureau or the court, and of the final disposition or present status of every case or violation of the provisions of this code and other laws and ordinances. Such records shall be so maintained as to show all types of violations and the total of each.
Cross reference— Public records, § 2-3-21 et seq.
Sec. 2-5-24. - Procedure.
The traffic violations bureau shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed by this article and other traffic ordinances of this city or as may be required by any laws of this state.
(Code 1959, § 20-243)
