ARTICLE B. - BUILDING

Sec. 8-2-11. - Building code adopted.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, use, demolition and removal of buildings or other structures, or any appurtenances connected or attached thereto, there is hereby adopted the International Code Council Standard Building Code, being particularly the 2003 edition thereof, with any subsequent amendments, additions, deletions thereto and future updated editions thereof, including any fee schedule included therein, as published by the International Code Council and the whole thereof, except the portions as may be hereafter deleted, modified or amended, a copy of which has been and is now filed in the office of the city clerk, and is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling as to all subjects therein contained, within the corporate limits, except that in the event that any of the provisions are in conflict with other provisions of this Code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations, the provisions of this Code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations shall prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. No. 92-003, § 1, 3-16-91; Ord. No. 04-73, § 1, 12-20-2004)
Sec. 8-2-12. - Fire districts.
There are hereby established two (2) fire districts in the city.
(1)
Fire District I shall consist of all business districts.
(2)
Fire District II shall consist of all those portions of the city not included in Fire District I.
(Code 1959, § 5-2)
Sec. 8-2-13. - Residential code adopted.
The Residential Code, the International Code Council Standard Construction Code, being particularly the 2003 edition, and any subsequent amendments, additions, deletions and future updated editions thereto, including any fee schedule included therein, as published by the International Code Council, and the whole thereof except such portions as are hereafter deleted, modified or amended, a copy of which has been and is now filed in the office of the city clerk, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling as to all subjects therein contained, within the corporate limits, except that in the event that any of the provisions are in conflict with other provisions of this Code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations, the provisions of this Code, state law or ordinances, rules or regulations shall prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. No. 92-008, § 1, 3-16-92; Ord. No. 04-74, § 1, 12-20-2004)
Sec. 8-2-14. - Violations of article; remedies.
(a)
Failure to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this title shall be deemed an offense and shall be punished upon conviction, as provided in section 1-1-8 of this Code. Each day's continuance of a violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of the provisions of this article, the building inspector, or other appropriate authority of the city, or any adjacent or neighboring property-owner who would be damaged by such violation may, in addition to other remedies, institute an injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use or to correct or abate such violations, or to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land.
(c)
The remedies herein shall not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be cumulative of all other remedies provided by law.
(Code 1959, Sec. 5-24; Ord. No. 96-005, 3-18-96)
Secs. 8-2-15—8-2-20. - Reserved.
