ARTICLE K. - PROPERTY MAINTENANCE

Sec. 8-2-101. - Short title.
The provisions of this article shall be known as the Property Maintenance Ordinance of the city.
(Ord. No. 92-026, 12-7-92)
Sec. 8-2-102. - Purpose.
This article is enacted to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and more specifically for the purpose of requiring the maintenance of premises to retain property values; to protect the general environment and appearance of neighborhoods, residential complexes and commercial and industrial areas; and to ensure safe and sanitary conditions in buildings, structures and premises.
(Ord. No. 92-026, 12-7-92)
Sec. 8-2-103. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article the following terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
Accessory building means a carport, attached or detached garage, storage building or any other building not intended for habitation and location on the premises.
Derelict boat or derelict trailer type vehicle is a boat or trailer type vehicle which (i) is dismantled, partially dismantled, deteriorated or not safe for use due to disrepair or damage, and (ii) which constitutes a nuisance or health or safety hazard in that it provides a place for insects, rodents or other animals to exist; attracts children, vagrants or other individuals, or may cause injury to them.
Derelict vehicle is a vehicle which (i) is unusable due to disrepair because one or more of the major parts needed for its operation has been removed, damaged or destroyed, or has been made not safe for operation through disrepair or damage, and (ii) which constitutes a nuisance or health or safety hazard in that it provides a place for insects, rodents or other animals to exist; attracts children, vagrants or other individuals, or may cause injury to them.
Established driveway means an area that is covered by gravel, asphalt, concrete or other paving material commonly recognized in the paving industry and is clearly indicative of an area that is normally used for vehicles to enter onto, drive over, or exit from real property, from or to a public or private street.
Established parking lot means an area that is paved or graveled and clearly discernible as an area which is reserved for the parking of vehicles on private property, and associated with the primary use of such property.
Front yard means the yard extending across the front of the lot between the side yard lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and the main building or any projections thereof, other than the projections of uncovered steps, uncovered balconies and uncovered porches. If there is no building on the property, the entire property shall be deemed the front yard.
Inoperable vehicle. A vehicle, or any part thereof, including vehicle trash and debris, which cannot be driven upon the public streets for reasons including, but not limited to, being unlicensed, wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or incapable of being moved under its own power.
Object shall be any item of personal property, other than a vehicle, boat or trailer type vehicle, and other than an item of personal property of a class normally intended for outdoor use and compatible with the use and occupancy of the primary structure located on the property. "Object" shall also include junk material (any item that is unsightly and has no significant value in its present form); machinery and equipment; appliances and other household items; lumber and building materials; dirt, sand, fill, rock, stone or other building materials not forming part of a structure or landscaping. "Object" shall also apply to abandoned tires, dilapidated buildings and other such unsightly accumulations of debris that may be placed on residential, commercial or industrial properties.
Person means any natural person, corporation, partnership, authority created by statute, association or other entity, or combination thereof.
To place means to establish the presence on property of an object which (i) is capable of being moved or removed and which is not affixed to the real property; and, (ii) is present on the property for a period of ten (10) consecutive days, whether or not the location of the item on the property is changed.
Vehicle means an automobile, truck, van or other motor vehicle designed and intended for use in transporting people and/or goods.
(Ord. No. 92-026, 12-7-92; Ord. No. 01-12, § 1, 10-1-2001; Ord. No. 05-44, § 1, 7-5-2005; Ord. No. 17-14, § 1, 5-15-2017)
Sec. 8-2-104. - Prohibited conditions.
(a)
It is unlawful for either the occupant of premises or the owner of such premises to have or to place or to allow to be placed, any of the following on such premises to the extent and in a manner that could threaten or endanger the public health, safety or welfare or could adversely affect or impair the economic value of adjacent property:
(1)
Any accumulation of litter, debris, refuse, garbage or animal excrement on any front, side or rear yard, or on any porch or underneath any building, or in any accessory building;
(2)
Any object or objects on the front yard or the front porch of any residential, commercial or industrial property;
(3)
Any object or objects, as defined, on the side or rear yard, or on side or rear porches, or underneath any building or in any accessory building, unless such objects are completely enclosed within the building, or are enclosed within a solid fence of such height that the objects are completely screened from the view of persons on adjacent property and to passersby on public rights-of-way. Concealment of objects in the manner described above shall in no way be interpreted to obviate or cure any other violation of this Code, or state or federal law.
(4)
Any overgrown grass or weeds of a height of six (6) inches or more, or any unkept vegetation in any yard, front, side or rear, including any such area within any right-of-way on the premises for which area the occupant of such premises or the owner of such premises shall also be responsible (this shall include the area between the property line and back of curb or edge of pavement if no curb exists);
(5)
Any accessory building on the front yard, or any dilapidated accessory building on the side or rear yard.
(6)
All clotheslines and other outdoor clothes drying equipment, shall be placed and maintained in only the rear yard of a residence or other residential property. In no instance shall clothes, sheets, towels, or other household materials be hung from any object other than a clothesline or other outdoor drying equipment. The placement or hanging of clothes, sheets, towels or other household materials, on fences, cars, hand railings, decks, porches, playground or other similar objects shall be considered a violation of this Code section and any such offender shall be subject to the provisions of Code section 1-1-8.
(b)
It is unlawful to place a vehicle, recreational vehicle, boat or trailer-type vehicle on the front yard of any premises, unless such vehicle, boat or trailer-type vehicle is placed on an established driveway or an established parking lot.
(c)
It is unlawful to place, keep, store, or allow to remain any inoperable vehicle, any derelict vehicle, derelict boat, or derelict trailer-type vehicle, or parts thereof on a front yard, or on an established driveway in a front yard. It is unlawful to place, keep, store, or allow to remain any inoperable vehicle, derelict vehicle, derelict boat, or derelict trailer-type vehicle, or parts thereof, on the side or rear yard of property if visible from any street or lane or adjoining property, unless such inoperable vehicle, derelict vehicle, derelict boat, or derelict trailer-type vehicle is enclosed within an accessory building so as not to be visible from any street, lane, or any adjoining property.
(d)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to material which is being used in connection with construction activity is being diligently pursued and complies with all applicable ordinances and codes of the city.
(e)
It is unlawful to clean or maintain private property located in the city by blowing, raking or otherwise moving objects, debris, yard waste or other items onto adjoining property or onto public rights-of-way. All such objects, debris, yard waste or other items shall be properly bagged or containerized for removal by the owner/occupant or, in the case of collectible solid waste, for removal by the city or its designee.
(f)
Both the occupant and the owner of the premises shall be liable for compliance with the provisions of this article, and shall be responsible for violations thereof. Lease of property of an owner which purports to transfer responsibility for this provision shall be ineffective in shielding the owner for responsibility under this provision, and such owner shall remain liable along with the occupant of the leased premises.
(Ord. No. 92-026, 12-7-92; Ord. No. 96-005, 3-18-96, Ord. No. 98-005, 4-6-98; Ord. No. 01-12, § 2, 10-1-2001; Ord. No. 05-46, § 1, 7-5-2005; Ord. No. 05-52, § 1, 8-1-2005; Ord. No. 20-02, § 1, 1-21-2020 )
Sec. 8-2-105. - Notification of owner and/or tenant.
(a)
Whenever it appears that any provision of this article is being violated, the code enforcement officer shall notify the owner and/or tenant of the alleged violation(s). Such notice shall specify the violation involved, the correction action needed, and shall state that if such corrective action is not completed within ten (10) days, or such other time as the code enforcement officer, in conjunction with the city manager, may establish, that a citation will be issued for a violation of the article. Notice shall be by personal service or by certified mail. Any time period provided in this section shall be deemed to commence on the date of the receipt of the certified mail. If the current whereabouts of the owner and/or occupant are unknown, or if service by certified mail cannot be effected, notice shall be mailed by first-class mail to such person's last known address, if any, and a copy of the notice shall be posted on the premises.
(b)
Should an individual or business be found in violation of the same provision(s) of this Code within any twelve-month period, notwithstanding the requirements of part (a) of this section, a citation may be issued immediately, without any time allowed for corrective action.
(Ord. No. 92-026, 12-7-92; Ord. No. 98-005, 4-6-98; Ord. No. 01-12, § 3, 10-1-2001; Ord. No. 20-10, § 1, 7-6-2020 )
Sec. 8-2-106. - Violations.
(a)
The failure to abate the alleged violation as set forth in the written notice within the ten-day period or such other time as provided by the code enforcement officer, shall be deemed a violation of this article; and the code enforcement officer shall issue a citation for such violation commanding the person to appear before the municipal court to answer said charge. Upon conviction for the violation, or upon the entering of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the code enforcement officer may cause the violation to be corrected by use of city equipment and/or employees. In the event the city does not have sufficient resources to correct the violation, the code enforcement officer, with approval of the city manager, may contract with outside persons or firms for the abatement of the violation. The cost to the city of abatement shall be a lien against the property as authorized by sections 6.16 and 6.18 of the charter of the city, and shall be placed on the tax records of the city and county.
(b)
Penalties for violations of the provisions of this article shall be punished upon conviction as provided in section 1-1-8 of this Code. Violations of this article shall be of a continuing nature with each day of noncompliance constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 92-026, 12-7-92; Ord. No. 96-005, 3-18-96; Ord. No. 97-001, § 1, 1-21-97; Ord. No. 98-005, 4-6-98)
Sec. 8-2-107. - Chapter 3, "General Requirements" of International Property Maintenance Code adopted.
Except where such general provision may otherwise conflict with specific provisions contained within the Code of Ordinances of the City of Forest Park, Chapter 3 "General Requirements" of the International Property Maintenance Code (2003 edition), as published by the International Code Council, Inc. and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference thereto and incorporated herein as part of the Code of Ordinances of the city. Accordingly, except where such general construction requirements may otherwise conflict with specific construction requirements contained within the Code of Ordinances for the city, all property, buildings, and structures or portions thereof shall be constructed and otherwise conform in all respects to the minimum standards set forth in Chapter 3 "General Requirements" of the International Property Maintenance Code (2003 edition). Copies of Chapter 3 "General Requirements" of the International Property Maintenance Code as published by the International Code Council, Inc. shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. 02-02, § 1, 4-1-2002; Ord. No. 04-83, § 1, 12-20-2004)
Sec. 8-2-108. - Board of appeals.
(a)
Creation. There is created a board of appeals consisting of three (3) members. Members of the board of appeals shall not be elected officials, persons appointed to elective office, residents of Forest Park, full-time appointed officials whether exempt or nonexempt, or city employees.
(b)
Qualification of members. All members shall possess a minimum of three (3) years experience and/or training related to property maintenance or building code enforcement.
(c)
Composition of board; terms of office. Each member of the board shall be appointed by recommendation of the mayor and approval of the city council. Members shall serve four-year terms, and all members shall serve until their successors are duly qualified and appointed.
(d)
Presiding officer. The board shall select its own presiding officer from among its members.
(e)
Vacancy; removal from board. A vacancy of the board shall exist by reason of death, resignation or removal by the city council for cause. A member of the board may also be removed from the board during a term if the member becomes ineligible to hold civil office within the meaning of O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1 and that ineligibility is established by a decision of the court of competent jurisdiction that declares the office vacant because of such ineligibility. A vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by recommendation of the mayor to city council.
(f)
Compensation of members of the board of appeals. The chairperson of the board shall receive compensation in the amount of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per meeting. Members of the board shall receive compensation in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) per meeting.
(Ord. No. 05-51, § 1, 7-18-2005; Ord. No. 07-07, § 1, 3-5-2007)
Sec. 8-2-109. - Misdemeanor.
Violation by any person of any provision of this article shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in section 1-1-8.
(Ord. No. 05-51, § 1, 7-18-2005)
Sec. 8-2-110. - Reserved.
