Chapter 72 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 72-1. - Reserved.
Sec. 72-2. - Parking and other zones, signs, and traffic control devices on city maintained streets.
(a)
The city manager is authorized to designate and maintain by appropriate traffic control signs, markings, and devices on city maintain streets:
(1)
Crosswalks where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians.
(3)
Traffic lanes.
(4)
Reserved.
(5)
Stop, yield, one-way and other directional devices; and
(6)
Any other sign, marking, device or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the roads and streets of the city.
(b)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices, and markings shall conform to specifications in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required under this chapter for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Code shall be official traffic control devices of the city.
(c)
No person shall be charged with violating a traffic zone, marking, sign, or other traffic control device unless appropriate signs, markings or devices are in fact operating or in existence on the streets involved.
(d)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign, or other traffic control device established under this chapter shall be a violation of this Code.
(Ord. of 3-14-2022(1))
Secs. 72-3—72-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING

Sec. 72-31. - General regulations.
(a)
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the direction of a police officer, city marshal, code enforcement, or traffic control device, at any place prohibited by ordinance and indicated by official signs or markings.
(b)
No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control either into any prohibited area or move and leave this vehicle away from a curb such distance as is prohibited by this section or other ordinance.
(c)
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle at any location specifically designated by order of the city manager as indicated by official signs or markings.
(Ord. of 3-14-2022(1))
Sec. 72-32. - Parking not to obstruct traffic.
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Ord. of 3-14-2022(1))
Secs. 72-31—72-45. - Reserved.
