Chapter 62 - PLANNING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to adopt plans, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV; planning generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 62-1—62-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 62-31. - Adoption of state regulations.
The rules, regulations and provisions contained in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated governing the creation, appointment, organization, powers and duties of municipal and county planning commissions are hereby adopted as the rules, regulations and provisions governing the city planning commission.
(Code 1988, § 2-151)
Sec. 62-32. - Composition, appointment and tenure.
The planning commission shall consist of five members appointed by the council. Except for initial appointments, the terms of the members shall be for three years each. Members shall serve until their successors are appointed. The seats on the planning commission shall be designated post number one, post number two, post number three, post number four, and post number five, and the mayor and council shall designate the post to which an individual is being appointed at the time of appointment.
(Code 1988, § 2-152; Amd. of 2-2001)
Sec. 62-33. - Vacancies.
Vacancies shall be filled by appointments for unexpired terms only and in the same manner as for original appointments.
(Code 1988, § 2-153)
Sec. 62-34. - Removal from office.
All members of the planning commission shall serve at the pleasure of the council and may be removed from office at any time by a majority vote of the city council.
(Code 1988, § 2-154; Amd. of 2-2001)
Sec. 62-35. - Compensation.
All members of the planning commission shall serve without compensation.
(Code 1988, § 2-155)
Sec. 62-36. - Officers and rules of procedure.
The planning commission shall elect one of its members as chairperson who shall serve for one year or until such person is reelected or a successor is elected. A second appointive member shall be elected as vice-chairperson who shall serve for one year or until such person is reelected or a successor is elected. The commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the city or of the planning commission. The planning commission shall meet at least once each quarter at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as the chairperson or commission shall determine, shall adopt rules for the transaction of business, and shall keep a record of its proceedings, which record shall be open to public inspection. Employees and staff may be appointed by the planning commission as necessary when authorized by the council.
(Code 1988, § 2-156)
Sec. 62-37. - Powers and duties.
The planning commission shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and prepare plans for physical, social and economic growth in an effort to promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity or general welfare of the city. In carrying out its objectives, the planning commission shall have the following specific powers and duties:
(1)
To prepare a master plan or parts thereof for the development of the city.
(2)
To prepare and recommend for adoption a zoning ordinance and map for the city.
(3)
To prepare and recommend for adoption regulations for the subdivision of land within the city limits and to administer the regulations that may be adopted.
(4)
To prepare and recommend for adoption a plat or plats or an official map showing the exact location of the boundary lines of existing, proposed, extended, unlined or narrowed streets, public open spaces, or public building sites and to provide for the regulation of construction of buildings or other structures within such lines.
(5)
To cooperate with, contract with, or accept funds from federal, state or local public or quasi-public agencies and to expend such funds.
(6)
To exercise all other powers and duties conferred upon municipal planning commissions by state law.
(Code 1988, § 2-157)
