PART I - LOCAL ACTS AND LOCAL CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1945 Ga. Laws (Act No. 54), page 569. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. The title of the act and the enacting clause have been deleted. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20, the title of the county governing authority has been changed from board of commissioners of road and revenues to board of commissioners.

Sec. 1. - Created; composition.
That a board of commissioners for the County of Glascock, Georgia, to consist of three members, is hereby created. Said commissioners shall be citizens and qualified voters of said county, of good moral character, and residing in the district in which they are elected, which districts are defined in this Act.
Sec. 2. - Road districts; election of members.
For the purpose of this Act, said County of Glascock shall be divided into three road districts to be constituted as follows: District Number 1 shall be composed of the 1167 District G. M. District Number 2 shall be composed of the 1168 District G. M. District Number 3 shall be composed of the 1169 District and the 1234 District G. M. Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the three members elected in November 1944 for a four-year term shall be the three commissioners of roads and revenue under this Act and shall hold office until January 1, 1949, or until their successors are elected and qualified. Their successors shall be elected at the general election of 1948 and elections shall be held at the general election each four years thereafter. One member of said board of commissioners shall be elected from each of the three road districts and no member shall be elected from any road district unless he is a bona fide resident of the same and has been for at least one year prior to his election, but each member shall be elected by the voters of the entire county and not by the voters of his district alone.
Sec. 3. - Filling of vacancies.
Should a vacancy from death, resignation, removal from the county, district, or otherwise occur on said board of commissioners, the same shall be filled by appointment by the governor of Georgia until the first day of January after the general election held next after such vacancy occurs, and the appointment shall be made from the district in which the vacancy occurs. Each commissioner, before entering into his duties, shall give bond with good security to be approved by the judge of the probate court in the sum of $1,000.00, payable to the judge of the probate court of said county, and his successor in office and shall take and subscribe an oath before the judge of the probate court of said county to well and faithfully perform his duties as such commissioner under this Act, which bond and oath shall be filed with the judge of the probate court and recorded upon his minutes. Said bond shall be for the faithful performance of the duties of the office of commissioner and may be sued upon by the judge of the probate court on his own initiative or by direction of any grand jury of the county, and any commissioner and his surety shall be liable for any breach by way of malfeasance in office or for any neglect of duties.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 458), page 5281, § 1)
Sec. 4. - Chairman and vice-chairman.
The chairman of the board of commissioners shall be elected by the voters of the entire county. In order to be elected chairman of the board of commissioners, a person must announce his candidacy for the position of chairman on or before the date he is required to file his notice of candidacy with the judge of the probate court to be a candidate in the general election. The announcement shall be in the form of a public notice, and it shall be published in the legal organ of the county at least one time prior to the date he is required to file his notice of candidacy. The person who announces his candidacy for the position of chairman of the board of commissioners and who receives the highest number of votes cast in the general election shall be elected chairman of the board of commissioners, and he shall serve for a term of four years and until his successor is duly elected and qualified. It shall be the duty of the chairman to preside at all meetings of the board and to approve and sign the minutes of each meeting. The board shall elect its own vice-chairman from among its members to act in the absence or in the event of a disqualification of the chairman, and the vice-chairman shall exercise all powers of the chairman when presiding or when the chairman is absent from the county. The chairman shall have the right to vote on all questions and perform any duties imposed upon him as a member of the board of commissioners.
(1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1283), page 3728, § 1)
Sec. 5. - Compensation.
The chairman of said board shall receive a salary of $2,400.00 per annum, and the other two commissioners shall each receive a salary of $1,500.00 per annum to cover all services in connection with the regular and special meetings of the board of commissioners. In addition to his salary, the chairman of said board shall also receive an expense allowance of $1,200.00 per annum. Said salaries and expense allowance shall be paid in monthly installments in the discretion of the board from funds in the county treasury, as other expenses of the county are paid.
(1949 Ga. Laws (Act No. 462), page 1923, § 1; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 150), page 2460, § 1; 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 791), page 2444, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1529), page 3952, § 1; 1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1284), page 3730, § 1)
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-24, compensation for members of the board of commissioners may be fixed by such board.
Sec. 6. - Meetings; clerk; bond of clerk; duties of clerk.
Said commissioners shall meet in regular session at the county site on the first Tuesday in each month for the transaction of county business, but may meet in extraordinary session whenever, in their judgment, public necessity may require it or at any time upon a special call by the chairman; and they shall, at their first meeting after their organization under this Act or at any other time, appoint some suitable person to act as clerk of said board, whose term of office shall be the same as that of the commissioners, unless removed by the commissioners for incompetency or malpractice in office, and whose compensation shall be as set by the board of commissioners and paid out of the county treasury, as other expenses of the county are paid. The clerk shall file with the chairman of the board, subject to his approval, a bond, with good security, in the sum of $5,000.00, payable to the board of commissioners of Glascock County. Said bond shall be for the faithful performance of his duties as clerk and to account for all funds, property, or effects coming into his hands as such clerk and may be enforced by the commissioners by suit whenever malfeasance in office or neglect of duty occurs. It shall be the duty of the clerk to attend all meetings of the commissioners and to keep in well-bound books, to be provided by the commissioners at the expense of the county, full and accurate records and minutes of all their transactions; to file, in the order of their dates, all the original orders and other papers; to arrange and keep in order of their filing all petitions, applications, and other papers addressed to said commissioners and belonging to the board; to sign, as clerk, all orders and warrants issued at the instance of said board and to record in a separate book all orders made or approved by said commissioners for the payment of money by the county treasurer; and all books, fees, and records required by this Act to be used or kept shall be open at the county site for inspection of all taxpayers of the county at all times.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 458), page 5281, § 2)
Sec. 7. - Superintendent of roads and bridges.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the said board of commissioners shall be required to elect a superintendent of the roads and bridges of said county, to be selected on account of his efficiency, knowledge and skill in practical road building. Such superintendent shall have charge of laying out, building, repairing, improving and maintaining the public roads and bridges of the county under the orders of the board of commissioners. He shall be subject to the orders of the board and may be removed from office for inefficiency or neglect of duty in the judgment of the board of commissioners. He shall receive such salary as may be fixed by the board of commissioners, but in no event shall his term of office, service of employment, extend beyond the term of office of the board of commissioners employing him. Said superintendent shall perform the duties of convict warden, without any additional compensation. In addition to his other duties, the superintendent of roads and bridges shall make periodic inspections and investigations and make regular monthly reports to the board of commissioners of roads and revenues.
(1949 Ga. Laws (Act No. 462), page 1923, § 2)
Sec. 8. - Employees.
Said board shall have authority to employ such other servants, agents, and employees and to contract for such material, implements, and road equipment as may be necessary to successfully carry on county business not contrary to this Act or law.
(1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 458), page 5281, § 3)
Sec. 9. - General powers.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said board shall have exclusive jurisdiction when sitting for county purposes, over all matters concerning county property, county taxes, general and special; in establishing and changing militia districts and election precincts; and examining, auditing and settling accounts of all officers having care, management, collection, keeping and distribution of money belonging to the county or appropriated for its use and benefit, except as hereinafter provided; in making rules and regulations for the support of the poor in the county; in establishing, altering, and abolishing roads and bridges and in carrying out any and all of its details and enforcement of the road laws; and it is vested with the jurisdiction and powers that the old inferior court had and which were formerly vested in the ordinary of said county [now probate judge], and ordinaries of said state [now probate judges], when sitting for county purposes, and generally to have and exercise all the powers granted by law, or as may be indispensable and complete to the proper jurisdiction over county finances and county matters. The commissioners, when sitting as a court, in regular or extra session, for the transaction of county business, shall have such power to inflict fines and impose penalties upon all persons subject to its jurisdiction for disobedience to its orders, precepts and processes as the judge of the superior court now has over such delinquent in such cases. Proceedings against such delinquents shall be in the manner and to the extent as now provided by law in such cases. The clerk of the commissioners' court shall act instead of the clerk of the superior court, and a quorum of commissioners, instead of the judge of the superior court.
Editor's note— To the extent that section 9 confers judicial powers upon the board of commissioners, it is superseded by Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I.
Sec. 10. - Quorum.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that a majority of the commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any and all business.
Sec. 11. - Purchases.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that requisition shall be made by all county employees, agents and officers for supplies, equipment and material on the commissioners, and before such supplies, equipment and material shall be purchased, authority must be obtained from the commissioners to order and purchase the same, subject to the provisions hereinafter provided.
Sec. 12. - Payment of obligations.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that all obligations of the county created under the provisions of this Act shall be paid out of the county treasury in a manner to be prescribed by the board, unless otherwise provided by law, to the party to whom such obligation may be due. The commissioners shall require, at their regular monthly meeting, lists of all employees to be filed, showing the names of the employees, the dates, and amounts due them for services rendered during the preceding month.
(1991 Ga. Laws (Act No. 144), page 4118, § 1)
Sec. 13. - Financial reports.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said commissioners, whenever requested by the grand jury, shall prepare and submit to the grand jury a complete itemized statement, in writing, showing the financial condition of the county, by showing receipts and disbursements, from what source money was received and for what purposes expended; and such further information and reports as the grand jury may call for from time to time and term to term.
Sec. 14. - Official records.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that all records of said commissioners shall be open to the public for inspection daily, during office hours, and shall be kept at all times in the county courthouse or courthouse vault.
Sec. 15. - Effective date.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the provisions of this Act shall take effect immediately upon the passage by the general assembly, and approved by the governor.
Sec. 16. - Repealer.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE II. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 278), page 1866. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. The title of the act and the enacting clause have been deleted. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20, the title of the county governing authority has been changed from board of commissioners of road and revenues to board of commissioners.

Sec. 1. - Generally.
Article VII, section VII, paragraph V of the constitution [Ga. Const. art. VII, § VII, ¶ V] is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the 'Glascock County Industrial Development Authority,' which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style and title, said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity.
B.
The authority shall be composed of seven members, one of whom shall be the member of the House of Representatives of Georgia whose representative district includes Glascock County, and six of whom shall be residents of Glascock County appointed by the governing authority of Glascock County and said member of the House of Representatives of Georgia. The first members of the authority shall take office on January 1, 1969. The members of the authority shall serve for terms of office concurrent with the terms of office of the members of the governing authority of Glascock County, except the member of the House of Representatives, who is a member of said authority, shall serve for a term concurrent with his term in the House of Representatives, and shall serve from term to term as long as he remains a member of the House of Representatives. In the event a vacancy occurs in the membership of the authority by death, resignation or otherwise, the appointing authority shall fill the same, but in the event the vacancy occurs in the member's office who is a member of the House of Representatives, then his successor in office shall fill such vacancy. Before assuming his duties of office, each member shall take an oath, before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths, that he will truly and faithfully perform the duties of a member of the authority.
C.
As used in this amendment, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word 'authority' shall mean the Glascock County Industrial Development Authority.
(2)
The word 'project' shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry, commerce, agriculture, natural resources and vocational training; the construction of buildings and plans for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures to private persons, firms or corporations.
(3)
The term 'cost of project' shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, [the] cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation.
D.
Glascock County is hereby expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the authority as a public corporation.
E.
A majority of members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the authority, but any action with respect to any project of the authority shall be approved by not less than a majority vote of the total membership of the authority.
F.
The authority shall have the following powers:
(1)
To have a seal, and alter the same at [its] pleasure.
(2)
To acquire, hold and dispose of personal property, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(3)
To enter into contracts with Glascock County.
(4)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or disposal of same in any manner the authority deems to its best advantage. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in Glascock County, the governing authority of Glascock County is hereby authorized, in its discretion, to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the authority.
(5)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees, including engineers, architects, builders, and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(6)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rentals and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it erects or acquires.
(7)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, self-liquidating or otherwise, located on property owned or leased by the authority, and to pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from any grant from the County of Glascock, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms or corporations, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(8)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing. The authority shall further have the power to borrow money from any agency, department, commission, bureau or institution of the State of Georgia or of the United States.
(9)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(10)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act.
(11)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(12)
To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the authority. Such revenue bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act of the General Assembly of 1937 (Ga. L. 1937, pp. 761-774 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.]), and as subsequently amended, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds.
(13)
Through the use and power of eminent domain, the authority shall have the right, power, privilege and authority to condemn real property, rights-of-way or easements for the purpose of developing and promoting for the public good and welfare industry within Glascock County, any such condemnation to be conducted in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia.
G.
All lands and improvements and personal property, the title to which is vested in the authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds and revenue bonds issued by the authority, and all income earned therefrom by the holders of said evidences of indebtedness, shall be exempt from state and local taxation. The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not include exemption from sales and use taxes on property purchased by the authority or for use by the authority.
H.
The authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt against the State of Georgia or Glascock County.
I.
The books and records of the authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the authority, by a competent auditor. The authority shall furnish copies of said audit to Glascock County.
J.
Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Glascock County, subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
K.
This amendment, being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Glascock and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
L.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within the County of Glascock and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
M.
The general assembly may, by law, further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority."
Sec. 2. - Effective date; referendum.
When the above proposed amendment to the constitution shall have been agreed to by two-thirds of the members elected to each of the two branches of the general assembly, and the same has been entered on their journals with the "ayes" and "nays" taken thereon, such proposed amendment shall be published and submitted as provided in article XIII, section I, paragraph I of the constitution of Georgia of 1945, as amended [Const. art. XIII, § I, ¶ I]. The ballot submitting the above-proposed amendment shall have written or printed thereon the following:
"YES ( ) NO ( )
Shall the Constitution be amended so as to create the Glascock County Industrial Development Authority?"
All persons desiring to vote in favor of ratifying the proposed amendment shall vote "yes". All persons desiring to vote against ratifying the proposed amendment shall vote "no". If such amendment shall be ratified as provided in said paragraph of the constitution, it shall become a part of the constitution of this state. The returns of the election shall be made in like manner as returns for elections for members of the general assembly, and it shall be the duty of the secretary of state to ascertain the result and certify the result to the governor, who shall issue his proclamation thereon.
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment was continued in full force and effect by the legislation found at 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 143), page 3809. See also Ga. Const. art. XI, § I, ¶ IV.
ARTICLE III. - COUNTY SHERIFF[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 67), page 2181. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. The title of the act and the enacting clause have been deleted.

Sec. 1. - Fee system abolished.
The present mode of compensating the sheriff of Glascock County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
Editor's note— Section 1 is superseded by O.C.G.A. §§ 15-16-19, 15-16-20.
Sec. 2. - Salary.
The sheriff shall receive an annual salary of $4,000.00, payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Glascock County.
Editor's note— Section 2 is superseded by O.C.G.A. § 15-16-20.
Sec. 3. - Collection of fines, fees, etc.
After the effective date of this Act, said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public moneys and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the sheriff shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the sources thereof.
State Law reference— General duties of sheriff, O.C.G.A. § 15-16-10.
Sec. 4. - Deputies.
The sheriff shall have the authority to appoint such deputies as he shall deem necessary to efficiently and effectively discharge the official duties of his office. The total compensation for such deputies shall be set by the sheriff with the approval of the board of commissioners but in no event shall the total compensation be less than the total compensation being paid to such deputies on February 1, 1987. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the sheriff, during his term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants, or other employees and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
(1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 339), page 2922, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 590) page 3329, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws (Act No. 157), page 3550, § 1; 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 421), page 5128, § 1)
Sec. 5. - Operating expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of the sheriff's office, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities and equipment, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Glascock County.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 72), page 2767, § 1)
Sec. 5A. - Automobiles.
The governing authority of Glascock County is authorized to purchase automobiles equipped with the necessary communication devices and other special equipment commonly on or in automobiles which are used by law enforcement officers for the use of law enforcement and other purposes in Glascock County in such manner and pursuant to such regulations as said governing authority may determine. The governing authority of Glascock County is also authorized to purchase replacements for said automobiles at such time as it may determine and to dispose of the replaced vehicles in such manner as it deems most advantageous to Glascock County. The governing authority of Glascock County is further authorized to provide for the cost of all repairs, tires, gasoline, oil, grease, antifreeze and other maintenance and supplies necessary for the operation of the automobiles authorized to be purchased herein. The funds for the purchase of the automobiles and for the payment of the supplies, equipment and maintenance as herein provided shall be payable from the funds of Glascock County.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 72), page 2767, § 2(5A); 1979 Ga. Laws (Act No. 157), page 3550, § 2)
Sec. 5B. - Expenses when outside county.
The sheriff and his deputy, in addition to any other compensation provided, shall receive actual expenses when out of the territorial limits of Glascock County attending official business or on business of the county as may be authorized by the governing authority thereof. The funds for payment of such expenses shall be payable from the funds of Glascock County.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 72), page 2767, § 2(5B))
State Law reference— Fees of sheriff for service of process outside of county, O.C.G.A. § 15-16-22.
Sec. 6. - Effective date.
The provisions of this Act shall become effective on March 1, 1966.
Sec. 7. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE IV. - CLERK OF SUPERIOR COURT[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 324), page 4487. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. The title of the act and the enacting clause have been deleted.

Sec. 1. - Fee system abolished; salary to be provided.
The present method of compensating the clerk of the Superior Court of Glascock County, known as the fee system, is abolished. The clerk of the superior court shall receive an annual salary as prescribed by the applicable provisions of article 2 of chapter 6 of title 15 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 15-6-50 et seq.], relating to clerks of the superior courts, as such provisions are now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 2. - Collection of fees, fines, etc.
After the effective date of this Act, said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys, and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed said officer as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public moneys, and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the clerk of the superior court shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
Sec. 3. - Employees.
The clerk of the superior court shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, and assistants, and other personnel as said officer shall deem necessary to discharge the official duties of the clerk's office efficiently and effectively. The clerk shall, from time to time, recommend to the governing authority of said county the number of such personnel needed by the clerk's office, together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee. However, it shall be within the sole discretion of the governing authority of said county to fix the compensation to be received by each employee in said office. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the clerk of the superior court, during said officer's term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, and assistants and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within said officer's sole discretion.
Sec. 4. - Office expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of the clerk of the superior court's office, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purposes. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, and equipment and the repair, replacement, and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county, and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose.
Sec. 5. - Repealer.
An Act providing a supplement to the compensation of the clerk of the Superior Court of Glascock County, approved April 6, 1981 (Ga. L. 1981, p. 3993), is repealed in its entirety.
Sec. 6. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective on January 1, 1987.
ARTICLE V. - TAX COMMISSIONER[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1956 Ga. Laws (Act No. 28), page 2058. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. The title of the act and the enacting clause have been deleted.

Sec. 1. - Office created.
Effective January 1, 1957, the offices of tax receiver and tax collector of Glascock County are hereby consolidated and combined into the one office of tax commissioner of Glascock County. The rights, duties and liabilities of said office of tax commissioner shall be the same as those imposed upon tax receivers and tax collectors by the laws of this state.
Sec. 2. - Election.
The first election for the office of tax commissioner created herein shall be held at the same time as the election for other county officers in Glascock County is held in 1956, and the person so elected shall take office on January 1, 1957, for a term of four years and until his successor is elected and qualified. Likewise, all future elections for tax commissioner shall be held at the same time as elections for other county officers, and all future tax commissioners shall likewise have a term of office of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Through December 31, 1956, the tax receiver and the tax collector of Glascock County shall continue in office. Should any vacancy occur in the office of tax commissioner, the vacancy shall be filled as vacancies are filled in the office of tax collector.
State Law reference— Election of tax commissioner, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-210; vacancy in office of tax commissioner, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-211.
Sec. 3. - Existing taxes and fi. fas.
All taxes due and payable at the time the tax commissioner takes office shall continue to be due and payable until paid. All tax fi. fas theretofore issued shall have full force and effect and be collectible as issued.
Sec. 4. - Compensation.
The tax commissioner shall be compensated in the amount of $7,200.00 per annum, to be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Glascock County. All fees, commissions, costs or any other perquisites collected by the tax commissioner shall be the property of Glascock County, and shall be turned over to the fiscal authority of said county with a detailed, itemized statement of the services for which such fees were collected. The tax commissioner, if authorized to do so by the governing authority of Glascock County, may employ personnel to assist him in the performance of the duties of his office, and the compensation for such personnel shall be fixed jointly by the tax commissioner and the governing authority of the county. Such compensation shall be paid from the funds of Glascock County.
(1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 850), page 2626, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1357), page 3463, § 1; 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1299), page 3565, § 1; 1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1286), page 3734, § 1)
Editor's note— The salary provided for in section 4 is superseded by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183.
Sec. 5. - Office.
The tax commissioner shall be furnished an office in the Glascock County courthouse, and shall keep said office open for the transaction of business as do other county officers. The tax commissioner shall not be required to leave his office or make rounds for the purpose of receiving returns or collecting taxes.
Sec. 6. - Oath.
The tax commissioner, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall take the oath prescribed by law for the tax collector, and shall give bond as provided by law for the tax collector.
Sec. 7. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE VI. - SALARY SUPPLEMENT FOR PROBATE JUDGE[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1974 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1300), page 3567. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. The title of the act and the enacting clause have been deleted. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20, the title of the county governing authority has been changed from board of commissioners of road and revenues to board of commissioners.

Sec. 1. - Authorized.
In addition to all other fees, commissions, costs or any other perquisites presently being received by the judge of the probate court of Glascock County, the governing authority of Glascock County is hereby authorized and directed to supplement the compensation of the judge of the probate court in the amount of $5,568.00 per annum, and such supplement shall be paid to the judge of the probate court in equal monthly installments out of the funds of Glascock County.
(1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1285), page 3732, § 1; 1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 358), page 3995, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
