PART I - LOCAL ACTS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the 1956 Ga. Laws, page 2077. Amendments to the original act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Section catchlines have been added by the editor in order to facilitate indexing and reference. Any other additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 the words "roads and revenues" have been stricken from the name of the governing authority. Pursuant to art. VI, § VI, ¶ 14 of the Georgia Constitution of 1976, the words "ordinary" and "court of ordinary" have been changed, without notation, to "judge of the probate court" and "probate court" respectively.

Section 1. - Board of commissioners.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of Habersham County shall be composed of five members. One member shall be elected from each commission district by the voters of the entire county at large. Any person offering as a candidate to represent a commission district must reside in the commission district from which he or she offers.
(b)
For the purpose of electing the members of the board of commissioners, Habersham County shall be divided into five commission districts which shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: haberccsbwk1 Plan Type: Local User: Tara Administrator: Habersham.
(b)[c]
When used in such attachment, the terms 'Tract' and 'BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Habersham County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Habersham County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(1998 Ga. Laws, page 4642, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws page 5630, § 1)
Section 2. - Commissioner districts.
(a)
The members of the board of commissioners who were elected at the general election in November, 1998, shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this section. The members of the board of education who were elected at the general election in November, 2000, shall continue in office for the terms to which they were elected and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this section.
(b)
The first members of the reconstituted Board of Commissioners of Habersham County from Commission Districts 2 and 3 shall be elected at the time of the general election in November, 2002. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
The first members of the reconstituted Board of Commissioners of Habersham County from Commission Districts 1, 4, and 5 shall be elected at the time of the general election in November, 2004. Such members shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(d)
Successors to members elected under subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall be elected at the time of the November general election next preceding the expiration of such terms of office and shall take office on January 1 following their election for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(e)
All members shall be elected in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(f)
Commission Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 as they exist immediately prior to the effective date of this Act shall continue to be designated as Commission Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and, on and after the effective date of this Act, such members of the board serving from those former commission districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this section.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2069; 1984 Ga. Laws, page 3671; 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4808; 1998 Ga. Laws, page 4642, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws, page 5630, § 1)
Section 2A. - Term of office.
(a)
The member of the board of commissioners representing Commissioner District 1 elected at the 1984 general election shall be elected for a term of office of four years beginning on January 1, 1985. The term of office of the member of the board of commissioners representing Commissioner District 2, which is scheduled to expire on December 31, 1985, is extended to expire on December 31, 1986. At the 1986 general election, the members of the board of commissioners representing Commissioner Districts 2 and 3 shall be elected for terms of office of four years beginning on January 1, 1987. Thereafter, the members of the board of commissioners representing Commissioner Districts 1, 2, and 3 shall be elected at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of their respective terms of office and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election for terms of four years. All members of the board of commissioners shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
All members of the board of commissioners shall be nominated and elected in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 21, ch. 2, known as the "Georgia Election Code."
(c)
The members of the board of commissioners holding office prior to the election of members pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall continue to serve as the governing authority of Habersham County until their successors are elected and take office as provided by said subsection (a) of this section.
(1984 Ga. Laws, page 3671; 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4808)
Section 3. - Qualifications of members.
Any person to be eligible to serve as a member of the board must be at least 25 years of age on the date of the election; must have resided in Habersham County for at least two years immediately preceding the date of the election; must be a resident of the commissioner district from which he offers for election; and must be qualified and registered to vote for members of the General Assembly.
Section 4. - Oath of members.
Before entering upon his duties, each member of the board shall take an oath to faithfully perform his duties under this Act and the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, [and] such oath shall be administered by the Judge of the Probate Court of Habersham County.
Section 5. - Bond of members, clerk and superintendent of roads.
Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, each member of the board, the clerk, and the superintendent of roads, as hereinafter provided, shall each give bond in the sum of $10,000.00 with a surety company authorized to do business in Georgia, as surety, payable to the Judge of the Probate Court of Habersham County, for the use of Habersham County. Such bond shall be conditioned for the satisfactory performance by each of the members, the clerk and the superintendent of roads, of the duties of his office and for a true accounting of all monies and effects of said county coming under his custody, possession, or control. Such bonds shall be filed in the office of the judge of the probate court and shall be recorded upon his minutes. The premium on such bonds shall be paid from the funds of Habersham County.
Editor's note— Each year ACCG provides Statutory Bond Coverage to those County officials that are required by State or local ordinance or resolution to be bonded to a required amount. Coverage is signed off and approved by the Probate Judge annually.
Section 6. - Vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs on the board for any reason other than the expiration of a member's term of office, such vacancy shall be filled by a special election called pursuant to the terms of general law and the person so elected shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(H.B. 924, § 1, 2-20-2020)
Section 7. - Compensation of members.
The Chairman of the Board of Commissioners shall be compensated in the amount of $900.00 per month, and the other members shall be compensated in the amount of $800.00 per month. Each member, including the chairman, shall also receive a monthly compensation supplement in the amount of $100.00 upon completion of the voluntary course of training resulting in designation as a certified county commissioner. Members of the commission will receive compensation increases when classified service employees receive an increase.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2619; 1969 Ga. Laws, page 2069; 1969 Ga. Laws, page 2079; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 3320; 1986 Ga. Laws, page 5554; Res. of 2-6-2006 )
Section 8. - Quorum; votes.
Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum and no action shall be taken by the board without the concurring vote of at least three members of the board. All votes of the board shall be proposed by a motion and followed by a second. Failure to obtain a second on a motion shall cause the motion to fail without the necessity of a vote. No two members shall come together to conduct, direct, consult, or consider any business of the board without notifying at least one other member of the board as to such action. Thereafter, the members of the board who have then consulted, conducted, directed, or considered the business of the county shall make a disclosure to the remaining members of the board as to any decisions or agreements reached or matters discussed.
This section shall not prohibit any discussions or consultations made during a meeting or at a recess of a meeting or when all board members are present and have an opportunity to participate. Further, this section shall not prohibit two members of the board from participating in any conferences, seminars, discussions on other boards served upon by the members, or in any circumstance when all board members were informed or had the opportunity to be aware that the board members would participate in such activity. At the first meeting in each year, the board shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson to serve for that year. The chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the board and shall serve as the executive officer of the board. In the absence of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall preside. If both the chairperson and the vice chairperson are absent, the remainder of the board may choose a presiding officer for that meeting only and such the presiding officer shall yield to either the chairperson or the vice chairperson anytime either officer becomes present at such meeting.
(1998 Ga. Laws, page 4642, § 2)
Section 9. - Appointment and duties of clerk.
The board is hereby authorized to employ a clerk to be compensated in an amount to be determined by the board, to be paid from the funds of Habersham County. It shall be the duty of the clerk to keep the minutes and records of all proceedings of the board and to discharge such other duties as the board may prescribe.
Section 10. - Appointment and duties of superintendent of roads.
The board is hereby authorized to employ a superintendent of roads who shall be appointed by and serve under the direction of the county manager.
(2005 Ga. Laws, page 3829, § 1)
Section 11. - Powers.
The board shall have and exercise all the powers which were vested by law in the judges of the inferior courts and the probate court, when sitting for county purposes, and is hereby expressly given complete power, authority and control relative to county matters of Habersham County. The board is hereby authorized to employ necessary personnel, and to fix their compensation, to assist in the performance of the duties imposed by this Act.
Section 12. - Purchasing.
The board of commissioners shall be authorized to prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing of supplies, equipment, and other materials and services for the county.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2619; 1984 Ga. Laws, page 3671; 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4808; 2005 Ga. Laws, page 3829, § 2)
Section 13. - Meetings; offices; responsibilities of commissioners regarding attendance to official business.
The Board shall hold a regular meeting on the third Monday in each month and may hold other meetings, as deemed advisable, upon the call of the Chairman or upon the call of any two of the members. The Board shall maintain an office at the courthouse of Habersham County or as near thereto as possible.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2619; Res. of 10-19-2009 )
Section 13.1. - County manager.
(a)
There is created the office of County Manager of Habersham County The county manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board. In addition to the duties contained in this Act, the county manager shall assume all such other duties as assigned by the board from time to time and as contained in any job description for such position as may be adopted by the board and as may be amended.
(b)
The county manager shall be chosen by the board solely upon the basis of executive, educational, and administrative qualifications which shall include actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practices with respect to the duties of the office as set forth in this Act or as further defined by the board. No member of the board shall be appointed as county manager during the term of office for which he or she is elected.
(c)
The chairperson of the board of commissioners shall continue as the executive officer of the county, and the board shall continue to be the executive entity of the county. It shall be the duty of the board to set the overall executive policy and procedures for the county. The county manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the county and the head of the administrative branch of county government. The county manager shall be responsible to the board for the proper and efficient administration of all of the affairs of the county over which the county manager has jurisdiction. It shall be the duty of the county manager to:
(1)
Hire, discharge, or suspend, in accordance with the ordinances, policies, and rules adopted by the board, all officers and employees of the county under the jurisdiction of the board; provided, however, that the county attorney, clerk of the board; and auditor shall be appointed and removed by action of the board;
(2)
Supervise the administration of the affairs of the county and see that all ordinances, resolutions, regulations, and policies of the board are faithfully executed and enforced;
(3)
Exercise administrative control over all departments or divisions of the county government under the jurisdiction of the board;
(4)
Act as the budget officer and submit, subject to requirements established by the board, an annual budget for consideration and adoption by the board;
(5)
Keep the board fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the county;
(6)
Supervise and direct the official conduct of all county officers and department heads appointed by the board pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section.
(7)
Attend all meetings of the board with the right to enter discussion and make recommendation, provided that the county manager shall have no vote;
(8)
Act as the chief purchasing agent for the county and establish policies and procedures for procurement of all supplies and materials required by the county, and all purchase orders and contracts for sums less than $5,000.00 may be executed by the county manager or his or her designee.
(9)
Administer the construction and maintenance of all roads and bridges under the jurisdiction of Habersham County and have administrative responsibility for any other construction or capital improvement projects.
(d)
There is established an order of command whereby all matters of personnel or general administration of the county to be considered by the board shall first be presented to the manager for his or her review, and it shall be the duty of the county manager to present such matters before the board. However, any person or employee may seek to address the board following the submission of a matter to the county manager as provided in this Act, provided that the county attorney shall answer directly to the board and may present matters to the board without prior review of the county manager. The board may direct the county attorney to investigate any matter, including the conduct of the county manager, without first informing the county manager, if the board considers such action to be in the best interest of the county. Further, department heads may take direction from the board and the board may receive reports or information directly from employees in a time of crisis or emergency or when it is necessary to safeguard the interests of the county or its citizens.
(e)
The county manager shall serve at the pleasure of the board for an indefinite term as an at will employee and may be terminated by majority vote of the board.
(f)
All actions of the county manager shall be taken and performed consistent and in compliance with all federal and state laws, local ordinances, policies, and directives as may be established by the board
(1998 Ga. Laws, page 4642, § 3; Res. of 1-25-2010 )
Editor's note— Please refer to Article IV, Finance, Division 2. Purchasing, for up to date information on the County Manager's purchasing thresholds.
