ARTICLE VII. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT

Sec. 4-380. - Findings and purpose.
(a)
Based on the demonstrated experience of other urban counties and municipalities, including, but not limited to: Atlanta and Fulton County, Georgia; DeKalb County, Georgia; Orlando, Florida; Orange County, Florida; Indianapolis, Indiana; Los Angeles, California; Beaumont, Texas; Phoenix, Arizona; St. Paul, Minnesota; and Austin, Texas; which experience is found to be relevant to the problems that face the city, the city council takes note of the notorious and self-evident conditions and secondary effects attendant to the commercial exploitation of human sexuality, which do not vary greatly among the various communities within our country, particularly the problems of crime, blight, and deterioration which are brought about by alcohol and live nudity.
(b)
It is the finding of the city council that public nudity (either partial or total) under circumstances related to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in so-called nude bars or establishments offering so-called nude entertainment or adult entertainment in conjunction with the sale of alcoholic beverages, begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions.
(c)
Among the acts of criminal behavior found to be associated with nudity and alcohol are disorderly conduct, prostitution, public indecency and drug trafficking. Among the undesirable community conditions identified with the concentration of adult entertainment establishments are depreciation of property values in neighborhoods surrounding nude bars or adult entertainment establishments where alcoholic beverages are sold, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burdens on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior hereinabove described, and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of adult establishments in particular areas.
(d)
Other negative effects which were found by the city council are the apparent connection of these establishments to organized crime and illegal drug sales; the potential spread of communicable diseases to law enforcement personnel who answer calls at adult establishments and to patrons of such establishments; and the potential proliferation of adult entertainment establishments after the initial siting of an adult entertainment establishment in a particular neighborhood.
(e)
The city, therefore, finds that it is in the best interest of the health, welfare, safety, and morals and preservation of its businesses, neighborhoods, and of churches, schools, and parks to prevent the adverse impact of adult entertainment establishments. Therefore, the city finds that the prohibition of live nude conduct in establishments licensed to serve alcohol for consumption on the premises is in the public welfare by furthering legitimate government interests, such as reducing criminal activity, protection against property devaluation and deterioration, and eliminating undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments which serve alcohol and allow and/or encourage nudity, and that such prohibition will not infringe upon the protected constitutional rights of freedom of speech. To that end, this section is hereby adopted.
(Code 2011, ยง 4-381)
Sec. 4-381. - Conduct prohibited.
The following types of entertainment, attire and conduct are prohibited upon any premises licensed to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises within the city:
(1)
The employment or use of any person live, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages or food while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing, as to expose any portion of his specified anatomical areas.
(2)
Live entertainment where any person appears unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose any portion of his specified anatomical areas or where such person performs acts of specified sexual activities or acts which simulate specified sexual activity.
(3)
The holding, promotion, sponsoring or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night, event or any other activity where live patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the conduct prescribed in subsections (1) and (2) of this section.
(Code 2011, ยง 4-382)
Sec. 4-382. - Liability of licensee for conduct of persons in licensed premises.
It shall be unlawful for a licensee to permit any conduct prohibited in this article that he knows or has reasonable cause to know is taking place on the premises. Any such conduct by a licensee shall be a violation of this Code and shall be punishable as provided in section 1-15 and shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of any license issued under this chapter.
(Code 2011, ยง 4-383; Ord. No. 80-2, ยง 80-001, 2-19-1980)
