ARTICLE 26. - YARD SALES, ESTATE SALES AND FLEA MARKETS

Section 2601. - Purpose and intent.
It is the purpose and intent of this article to allow individuals and organizations the opportunity to have regulated yard and/or estate sales for the purpose of selling personal property, while generally maintaining the expected peace, tranquility and safety of the county's residential neighborhoods. Further, it is the intent of this ordinance to set standards for outdoor flea markets as may be allowed in accordance with zoning districts of this ordinance.
( Ord. No. 258 , § 1, 10-10-2017)
Section 2602. - Applicability of regulations.
Yard sales, estate sales and outdoor flea markets shall be permitted as defined and as described in the following sections, except as may be limited or prohibited by other Upson County code regulations. Indoor flea markets shall be regulated as other indoor, retail commercial businesses.
( Ord. No. 258 , § 1, 10-10-2017)
Section 2603. - Outdoor flea markets.
A.
An outdoor flea market may not be considered a home occupation. Outdoor flea markets shall be strictly prohibited in any and all agricultural (A-R) and residential districts (P-M, O-1, P-R, R-1, R-2, R-4, R-5, etc.) and are prohibited from the C-1 and C-3 commercial districts. Outdoor flea markets are only permitted in the C-2, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts. Approved outdoor flea markets and their independent flea market vendors/booth operators are subject to the Upson County occupation tax. Any structures associated with the flea market, built for the purposes of public sales and access, shall be properly permitted and inspected, in accordance with all appropriate building codes.
B.
The minimum size of an outdoor flea market shall be one acre.
C.
Outdoor flea market booths shall be located on individual stands and shall contain no more than 100 square feet of area, separated from each other and from other buildings by at least ten feet of open space.
D.
Setbacks, screening.
1.
All outdoor flea market structures and booths shall be located at least 25 feet from all property lines.
2.
All outdoor flea markets adjacent to residential uses and/or residential zoning districts, including A-R, shall be provided with screening of a well-maintained opaque, six foot tall, minimum, fence or wall along the boundary line separating the market and such residential uses and residential zoning districts.
E.
Off street parking areas will be provided in all outdoor flea markets. Such areas will be furnished at the rate of five and one-half spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.
F.
Each booth shall be numbered in a uniform, clear, legible, orderly manner.
( Ord. No. 258 , § 1, 10-10-2017)
Section 2604. - Yard and estate sales.
A.
Yard sales, as defined in article 2, section 202, shall be subject to the following restrictions:
1.
No yard sale shall be conducted for more than 72 consecutive hours over three days.
2.
Yard sales shall be open for business during daylight hours only, opening no earlier than sunrise and closing by sunset.
3.
A maximum of four yard sales is allowed during any one calendar year on any property or parcel.
4.
Items offered for sale and associated signage shall not be displayed within any public rights-of-way.
5.
Yard sales shall not create a nuisance to neighbors, shall not block driveways, sidewalks or other access ways and shall not create dangerous traffic conditions on adjacent and/or nearby roads.
6.
Open outdoor storage of yard sale items and display tables, except during the specified times of the sale, is strictly prohibited. The storage of yard sale items before and after the specified time of the sale shall be accordance with the Code of Ordinance for Upson County. Tarps, blankets, or other similar coverings shall not be considered adequate enclosures for outdoor storage of yard sale items.
7.
All signage related to yard and estate sale events and flea markets shall be in accordance with the Upson County Sign Ordinance. Signage associated with yard and estate sales shall be removed within 24 hours of the end of the yard sale.
8.
Yard sales, including joint yard sales, may be allowed on other properties not owned by the primary organizer of the joint yard sale; provided that written permission is obtained from the property owner and that the other established restrictions set forth in this ordinance are observed.
B.
Professional estate sales, as defined in article 2, section 202 of this ordinance, shall be subject to the restrictions in [subsections] A.1—A.8 above, except that true professional estates sales are exempt from the sales duration restrictions in [subsections] A.1, A.2 above for the purposes of achieving a more efficient liquidation of personal property.
C.
Yard sales, including joint yard sales, conducted by government-recognized tax-exempt, organizations, are exempted from the frequency restrictions established in [subsection] A.3 and the zoning district restrictions, as long as they are held on the not-for-profit organization's property. Proof of not-for-profit status must be available on-site for enforcement staff inspection.
( Ord. No. 258 , § 1, 10-10-2017)
Section 2605. - Parking.
No parking related to yard sales, estate sales or flea markets shall occur within any public right-of-way. The person responsible for holding the yard sale, estate sale or flea market and the owner of the property hosting such sale shall be responsible for and shall control the parking of vehicles of vendors and patrons/customers of the sale so as to avoid traffic congestion and hazardous conditions. Failure to foster and create the safe parking of vehicles shall be sufficient cause for the yard sale to be immediately shut down by the sponsor, property owner and/or the proper governmental authorities.
( Ord. No. 258 , § 1, 10-10-2017)
Section 2606. - Enforcement and penalty.
Any person(s) in violation of this article may be issued a cease and desist order and/or a citation and shall be subject to prosecution and upon conviction, may be fined up to $50.00 daily for each day a violation occurs.
( Ord. No. 258 , § 1, 10-10-2017)
Section 2607. - Severability.
Any portion of this ordinance that may be deemed void, invalid or otherwise unconstitutional and/or illegal shall be severed from the ordinance without invalidating the remaining provisions of this ordinance.
( Ord. No. 258 , § 1, 10-10-2017)
