ARTICLE 19. - M-2 MANUFACTURING—GENERAL[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 26.

Section 1901. - Purpose.
M-2 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve physically and aesthetically desirable areas in which clean, higher intensity manufacturing activities may locate and be protected from the intrusion of incompatible land uses. By having such areas available, both new and existing industries may operate and undertake expansion of facilities with the least possible adverse effect on other types of activities which might be incompatible with manufacturing. The elimination of nonmanufacturing activities from M-2 district benefits manufacturing activities by removing some possible obstacles to their smooth operation and expansion.
Section 1902. - Determining if an area is suitable for inclusion within an M-2 district.
The factors contained in section 410 of this ordinance must be thoroughly considered by the planning commission as well as the board of commissioners when determining in which zoning district an area of land is to be placed. This will assure that rational comprehensive planning principles are the basis upon which the decision is made. Land use decisions which are based on sound planning principles encourage the development and preservation of land use patterns that provide healthful and safe living conditions for the residents of Upson County.
Section 1903. - Boundaries of M-2 districts.
The official map (section 2301 of this ordinance) shows the boundaries of all M-2 districts within Upson County. Article 23 also contains additional information concerning interpreting district boundaries, amending boundaries, etc.
Section 1904. - Permitted uses.
modified
A.
The following principal uses are permitted in M-2 districts:
1.
Manufacturing activity which does not cause injurious or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard, or other objectionable conditions.
2.
Manufacturing activity which may cause noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard, or other objectionable conditions, and which meets the following development standards:
a.
It shows to the satisfaction of the board of commissioners that the location, construction, and operation of the activity will not injure present or prospective manufacturing development in the district.
3.
Wholesale and warehousing operation.
4.
Building material yard.
5.
Public garage.
6.
Repair garage.
7.
Newspaper or printing plant.
8.
Off-street parking lot or parking garage.
9.
Armory.
10.
Bottling plant.
11.
Cabinet shop.
12.
Cold storage, ice plant, or freezer locker.
13.
Cosmetic and pharmaceuticals manufacturing.
14.
Dairy plant, ice cream manufacturing.
15.
Distribution of products or merchandise.
16.
Dry cleaning or laundering establishment.
17.
Education or training facility.
18.
Electrical appliance and equipment sales and repair.
19.
Electronic manufacturing and assembly.
20.
Fabricating shop such as woodworking, upholstery, or sheet metal shop.
21.
Machine shop.
22.
Plumbing shop, other contractor—including open storage of materials when located in rear yard.
23.
Printing, publishing, reproducing establishment.
24.
Sign painting and fabricating shop.
25.
Textile manufacturing plant.
26.
Baking establishment.
27.
Heavy agricultural equipment sales and repair.
28.
Truck terminal.
29.
Gasoline storage terminal.
30.
Junkyard which is entirely enclosed by a fence that is at least six feet high and screens the yard from view.
31.
Wired and wireless telecommunication products and services — including telecommunications towers 35 feet tall and shorter.
32.
Acid manufacture and storage.
33.
Bulk petroleum plant.
34.
Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of Paris manufacture.
35.
Ceramic products manufacture, limited to use of electric kilns.
36.
Commercial livestock processing.
37.
Concrete, cement products, or clay products manufacture.
38.
Feed, grain, or fertilizer manufacture or storage.
39.
Food processing plant.
40.
Foundry or forging plant.
41.
Grain elevator.
42.
Ice manufacture, including dry ice plant.
43.
Planing or sawmill.
44.
Poultry processing plant.
45.
Railroad yard.
46.
Recycling center.
47.
Rock, sand, or gravel distribution or storage.
48.
Tinsmith operation.
49.
Roofing operation.
50.
Local, state, or federal government building.
51.
Agriculture, excluding commercial poultry and swine operations (see section 1904.B.7 of this ordinance).
52.
Utility substation meeting the following development standards:
a.
Structures must be enclosed by a woven-wire fence at least eight feet high with bottom of fence either flush with the ground or with a masonry footing.
B.
The following principal uses are permitted as special exceptions in M-2 districts:
1.
Airport, heliport.
2.
Radio, wireless communication and transmission tower over 35 feet high.
3.
Central mixing plant for cement, mortar, plaster, or housing materials.
4.
Development of natural resources—including the removal of minerals and natural materials. This includes appurtenant buildings and machinery. Such activity must meet the following development standards:
a.
Any extension of quarrying operations beyond the property lines actually being quarried at the effective date of this ordinance is considered to be a new operation and is subject to requirements of this ordinance.
b.
Quarry areas being excavated must be entirely enclosed by a fence located at least ten feet back from the edge of any excavation. Such a fence must be of such construction and height as to be demonstrably able to exclude children and livestock.
c.
At the time of application for the building permit, the owners or operators of the quarry must present to the administrative officer comprehensive plans for the future rehabilitation and reuse of the property when the quarrying operation is ended.
5.
Junkyard, meeting the following development standards:
a.
It must be surrounded by a buffer (see definition in article 2) which is set back 50 feet from all property lines.
6.
Sanitary landfill or incinerator that meets all applicable federal and state requirements.
7.
Commercial poultry and swine operations required to meet all of the standards of article 27, commercial poultry and swine operations — standards for operation, structures and appurtenances, of this ordinance.
8.
Small, intermediate and large scale ground mounted SESs.
C.
The following accessory uses are permitted in M-2 districts:
1.
Those determined by the administrative officer to be customarily appurtenant to those uses permitted in this district.
2.
Satellite dish antennas, television antennas, amateur radio antennas and support structures.
D.
The following accessory uses are permitted as special exceptions in M-2 districts:
1.
Temporary lodging, recreational vehicle spaces, for use by customers, company guests and employees bringing in their own recreational vehicles for no more than six months in a 12-month period. Such recreational vehicle spaces must be shown on a site or development plan that must be approved by the board of commissioners as a part of the special exception application.
2.
Small, intermediate and large scale ground mounted SESs.
E.
All accessory uses must meet the following standards:
1.
They may not be located closer than five feet to any property line.
2.
Accessory buildings not attached to the principal building must be located at least 12 feet from the principal building on the lot.
F.
All uses not permitted within M-2 districts by this section are specifically prohibited.
( Ord. No. 262 , § 1(F), (G), 5-8-2018; Ord. No. 266 , § 1, 10-9-2018; Ord. No. 269 , § 1, 11-26-2019; Ord. No. 270 , § 1 12-10-2019; Ord. No. 273 , § 1, 3-9-2021)
Section 1905. - Development standards for M-2 districts.
In addition to the development standards contained in article 4 of this ordinance, the following standards are required within M-2 districts:
A.
Minimum heated floor area for buildings: none.
B.
Minimum lot area:
1.
Unsewered areas: as specified by the Upson County Health Department, but in no case less than one acre; however, a lot of record lawfully existing at the time of passage of this ordinance and having an area of less than one acre (nonconforming) may nevertheless be developed with a use which is permitted within an M-2 district if approved by the Upson County Health Department.
2.
Sewered areas: one acre; however, a lot of record lawfully existing at the time of passage of this ordinance and having less than one acre (nonconforming) may nevertheless be developed with a use which is permitted within an M-2 district.
C.
Minimum lot width: 150 feet.
D.
Minimum front yard:
1.
Arterial streets/roads: 100 feet from centerline of street/road. The front of all buildings must be at least 35 feet from the front property lines. If additional front yard space above the stated minimum yard requirement would be needed to accomplish this, then the needed extra yard space must be provided.
2.
Collector streets/roads: 100 feet from centerline of street/road. The front of all buildings must be at least 35 feet from the front property line. If additional front yard space above the stated minimum yard requirement would be needed to accomplish this, then the needed extra yard space must be provided.
3.
Other streets/roads: 100 feet from centerline of street/road. The front of all buildings must be at least 35 feet from the front property line. If additional front yard space above the stated minimum yard requirement would be needed to accomplish this, then the needed extra yard space must be provided.
E.
Minimum side yard: 30 feet if side lot line adjoins M-1 or M-2 district; however, if side lot line adjoins any other district, minimum required side yard is 100 feet.
F.
Minimum rear yard: 35 feet if rear lot line adjoins M-1 or M-2 district; however, if rear lot line adjoins any other district, minimum required rear yard is 100 feet.
G.
Maximum bldg. height: 35 feet. This height limit does not apply to projections not intended for human habitation. For buildings and structures with such projections, the minimum required yards must be increased one foot for every two feet (or part of two feet) of height greater than 35 feet.
H.
(Reserved).
I.
Sight distance: In order to assure maintenance of adequate sight distances at intersections, no fence, wall, shrubbery, or other obstruction to vision between the heights of three feet and 15 feet above the ground is permitted within 20 feet of the intersection of the rights-of-way of streets or of streets and railroads.
J.
Applicability to land, buildings, and open space: No building, structure, land, or open space may be used or occupied—and no building or structure or part of a building or structure may be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered—unless in conformity with all of the regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
K.
Every use must be on a lot: No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance.
L.
Only one principal building per lot: Only one principal building and its accessory buildings may be erected on any lot, except for planned developments or as otherwise provided.
M.
Open space not to be encroached upon: No open space may be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity with the yard, setback, off-street parking spaces, and other such required development standards contained in the [this] ordinance. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and buffers (see definition in article 2) are not considered to be encroachments of yards. Open space areas as required by this ordinance must be permanently maintained as open space in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.
N.
Reduction of yards or lot area: Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, a lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance may not be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in which it is located unless that reduction or division is necessary to provide land which is needed and accepted for public use.
O.
Lots with multiple frontage: In case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, front yard setback requirements apply to all lot lines abutting a street.
P.
Landlocked lots: In the case of a landlocked lot (lot without direct access to a public street or road) lawfully existing as of the effective date of this ordinance, the property owner is entitled to one building permit, as long as all of the following requirements are met:
1.
No other principal building exists or is being constructed on the property.
2.
No other valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance and is currently valid.
3.
The property was and continues to be under single ownership since the effective date of this ordinance.
4.
The property owner has acquired a 30-foot easement to city-, county-, or state-maintained street, and the easement has been duly recorded and made a part of the property deed.
5.
In the event the property is divided, no additional permits will be issued.
Q.
Street frontage: No principal building may be erected on any lot which has less than 30 feet of immediate frontage on at least one public street.
R.
Yards and other spaces: No part of a yard, other open space, off-street parking, or loading space required for one building may be included as a part of the yard, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building, except as specifically provided for in this ordinance.
S.
Substandard lots: Any lot existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance, which has an area or a width which is less than required by this ordinance, is subject to the following exceptions and modifications:
1.
Adjoining lots in same ownership: When two or more adjoining and vacant lots within a nonapproved development with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at the time of application and such lots have a frontage or lot area less than is required by the district in which they are located, such lots must be replatted or reparcelled so as to create one or more lots which conform to the minimum frontage and area requirements of the district.
2.
Single lot: When a lot has an area or frontage which does not conform with the requirements of the district in which it is located, but was a lot at the effective date of this ordinance, such a lot may be used for any use allowed in the zoning district in which it is located as long as all other requirements of this ordinance are met.
T.
Encroachment on public rights-of-way: No building, structure, service area, required off-street parking, or loading/unloading facility is permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
U.
Physical design standards: Minimum design standards for driveways, loading areas, and other such physical site improvements are contained in applicable development regulations of Upson County. Consult the administrative officer for specific requirements.
V.
Off-street parking and service requirements: Minimum standards for off-street parking and service requirements are contained in the Upson County Standard for Off-street Parking and Service Facilities (appendix B [to this appendix]).
W.
Other applicable development regulations: Information concerning any other applicable development regulations may be obtained from the administrative officer.
X.
Signs: Minimum design and location standards are contained in the Upson County Sign Ordinance (see appendix C) (where one exists). Consult that document for specific requirements.
Y.
Yards abutting railroads: Side yards and rear yards are not required adjacent to railroad right-of-way.
