ARTICLE V. - IMPROVEMENTS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 78-461. - Performance and specifications.
A well-designed subdivision means little to a prospective lot buyer until he can see actual physical transformation of raw land into lots with all necessary improvements provided. Likewise, a well-designed subdivision is not an asset to the community until the necessary improvements have been installed. In order that prospective lot purchasers may get usable products and new subdivisions may be an asset rather than a liability to the community, every subdivider shall be required to make the improvements outlined in this division in accordance with the specifications in this division or otherwise adopted by the planning commission. The improvements can be made by the appropriate local authority at the expense of the subdivider, or the subdivider can make the improvements with the approval of the appropriate local authority concerned.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-1, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-462. - Grading.
(a)
Required. All streets, roads, and alleys shall be graded by the subdivider in such a manner that pavements and other improvements (sidewalks and curb and gutter, if provided or required) can be constructed to the required cross section. The minimum width of grading shall be the pavement width as specified in section 78-379, plus six feet on each side measured from the back of curb or pavement edge. Deviation from the this section will be allowed only when due to special topographical conditions.
(b)
Preparation. Before grading is started the entire right-of-way area shall be first cleared of all stumps, roots, brush, and other objectional materials and all trees not intended for preservation.
(c)
Cuts. All tree stumps, boulders, and other obstructions shall be removed to a depth of two feet below the subgrade. Rock, when encountered, shall be scarified to a depth of 12 inches below the subgrade.
(d)
Fill. All suitable material from roadway cuts may be used in the construction of fills, approaches, or at other places as needed. Excess materials, including organic materials, soft clay, etc., shall be removed from the roadway. The fill shall be spread in layers not to exceed 12 inches, loose and compacted. The filling of utility trenches and other places not accessible to the roller shall be mechanically tamped.
(e)
Subgrade. The subgrade shall be properly shaped, rolled and uniformly compacted to conform with the lines, grades, and typical cross sections as shown on drawings, if required, and approved by a department or official designated by the county commissioners. Unsuitable material shall be excavated and replaced with acceptable compacted material.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-2, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-463. - Storm drainage.
An adequate drainage system, including necessary open ditches, pipes, culverts, intersectional drains, drop inlets, bridges, etc., shall be provided in a subdivision for the proper drainage of all surface water according to curb and gutter plans and specifications, as required, and approved by a department or official designated by the county commissioners. Cross drains shall be provided to accommodate all natural water flow and shall be of sufficient length to permit a full-width roadway and the required slopes. The size of pipe to be provided shall be determined and approved by a department or official designated by the county commissioners.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-3, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-464. - Sidewalks.
Sidewalks in a subdivision may be required by the planning commission where in its opinion safe and convenient pedestrian movement is essential, leading to or going through commercial areas, school sites, places of public assembly or across unusually long blocks. Required sidewalks or those installed at the option of the subdivider shall have a minimum width of four feet, shall not be adjacent to curbs, and shall otherwise be installed according to plans and specifications, as required, and approved by a department or official designated by the county commissioners.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-5, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-465. - Installation of utilities.
In a subdivision, after grading is completed and approved and before any base is applied, all of the underground work within the street right-of-way (water mains, gas mains, etc.) shall be installed completely and approved throughout the length of the road and across the flat section. At the same time all service connections shall be stubbed out to each lot. All underground utilities are to be installed as per slotting arrangements by local utility providers.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-6, 5-11-2000)
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 90.
Sec. 78-466. - Water supply system.
(a)
Public water system. If a public water supply is available to a proposed subdivision and connection thereto is permitted, water mains and fire hydrants within the subdivision along with connections to each lot shall be provided, according to plans and specifications as required and approved by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Community water supply system. If a public water supply is not available, the subdivider may install a community water system developed according to plans and specifications as required and approved by the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources.
(c)
Individual water supply. When a public water supply is not available and a community water system is not proposed by the subdivider, the subdivider shall carefully consider the capability and suitability of the general area of the subdivision to support individual water supplies. Such a water supply provision shall be interviewed by the county health department and their recommendations shall be considered by the planning commission in approving a plat.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-7, 5-11-2000)
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 90.
Sec. 78-467. - Sanitary sewage disposal.
(a)
Public sewer system. When a public sewer system is feasibly available to a proposed subdivision and connection to the system is permitted, the subdivider shall install and connect to the sewage disposal facilities within the proposed subdivision or feasible portions thereof to such public system in accordance with plans and specifications as required and approved by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Individual sewage disposal system. When a public sanitary sewer system is not available, an alternate method of sewerage disposal for each lot or a community sewage disposal system may be approved. When an individual sewage disposal method (septic tank) is proposed, appropriate data and information in compliance with the regulations of the county health department shall be provided to and approved by the county health department.
(c)
Community sewage disposal system. When a community sewage disposal system is proposed or a public sewer system is not available and individual sewage disposal systems are disapproved, thereby necessitating a community sewage disposal system, the developer shall install the system in accordance with plans and specifications as required and approved by the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-8, 5-11-2000)
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 90.
Sec. 78-468. - Street, alley and service drive improvements.
All streets to be paved in a subdivision must be prepared and paved according to the following methods or by equivalent methods that are acceptable to the county commissioners and approved by the county road superintendent:
(1)
Base. The base shall consist either of select topsoil, sand, clay, or other approved material having a minimum thickness of six inches after being thoroughly compacted and shall be constructed on a prepared subgrade in accordance with these specifications and in conformity with the county road construction and paving ordinance.
a.
All materials shall be of an approved type.
b.
All materials shall be mixed to the extent necessary to produce a thoroughly pulverized and homogenous mixture.
c.
As soon as the base material has been spread and mixed, the base shall be brought to approximate line, grade and cross section and then rolled with a sheepsfoot roller until the roller walks out and finally with a pneumatic tire or general purpose roller until full thickness of the base course has been compacted thoroughly. Defects shall be remedied as soon as they are discovered.
d.
The base course shall be maintained under traffic and kept free from ruts, ridges and dustings, true to grade and cross section until it is primed.
e.
No base material shall be deposited or shaped when the subgrade is frozen or thawing or during unfavorable weather conditions.
(2)
Pavement. Unless otherwise approved by a department or official designated by the county commissioners, pavement shall be constructed as follows: Paving shall be provided as specified in the county road construction and paving ordinance.
(3)
Seals. Care and precaution shall be taken that all points between such structures as manholes and curbs and the surface mixture are well sealed.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-9, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-469. - Street name signs.
Street name signs shall be installed at intersections within a subdivision. The location and design of such signs shall be approved by a department or official designated by the county commissioners.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-10, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-470. - Street trees.
The planting of street trees is not required in a subdivision; however, if the subdivider chooses to plant trees along the street to enhance the appearance of a subdivision, such trees shall be planted on any street right-of-way in a manner to ensure that there will be no conflict with utility lines either above or below the ground surface.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-11, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-471. - Monuments.
Solid steel rods at least one-half inch in diameter or square, two feet long, shall be set at all street corners in a subdivision, at all points where street lines intersect the exterior boundaries of the subdivision, at angle points and points of curve in each street in a subdivision, and at points of change of direction in the exterior boundaries of the subdivision. The top of the monument shall be set flush or up to six inches above the finished grade. All other lot corners shall be marked with solid steel rods not less than one-half inch in diameter and at least 24 inches long and driven so as to be flush with the finished grade.
(Ord. No. 134, § 7-12, 5-11-2000)
Secs. 78-472—78-500. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SURETY FOR COMPLETION

Sec. 78-501. - Scope.
In lieu of the completion of the required improvements in a subdivision, the subdivider may provide surety for the completion of such improvements and present a final plat for approval.
(Ord. No. 134, § 8-1, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-502. - Requirements.
To ensure the construction and installation of required improvements in a subdivision, the subdivider shall deliver to the appropriate public authority a certified check, letter of credit, or cash escrow, bond, or other acceptable surety, whichever is specified by the authority, in such amount as is estimated by the public authority having jurisdiction to be the total cost of the construction and installation of the required improvements, which are the responsibility of the subdivider.
(Ord. No. 134, § 8-2, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-503. - Conditions.
Bonds posted or other surety provided pursuant to this division shall run to the public authority having jurisdiction over the required improvements for which surety is made and shall provide that the subdivider, his heirs or successors and their agents and servants will comply with all applicable terms, conditions, provisions, and requirements of this chapter, other laws and regulations, and requirements as specified by the appropriate public authority. If bond is offered, it shall be executed by a surety and guaranty company qualified to transact business in the state and approved by the administrative officer.
(Ord. No. 134, § 8-3, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-504. - Duration and release.
Bonds posted or other surety provided pursuant to this division shall be released, returned or otherwise disposed of by the holder, as the case may be, at such time as the facilities guaranteed or provided therefor have been installed and approved. Approval shall be in writing accurately describing the improvements covered. Facilities shall not be accepted or approved unless they conform to the specifications and requirements of this chapter and the county.
(Ord. No. 134, § 8-4, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-505. - Default.
(a)
If the construction or installation of any improvements or facilities by the subdivider, for which a bond is posted or other surety is provided, is not completed within the period of performance specified by the public authority at the time the surety is provided or if the construction or installation by the subdivider is not in accordance with the applicable specifications and requirements of the appropriate authority, the construction or installation may be completed using the proceeds from such surety deposits to pay for such work. Such work may be done under contract or by the local authority and shall be completed within six months after the date that the construction or installation is determined to be in violation of this chapter.
(b)
To the extent that any portion of a surety deposit is not required or used, the excess surety shall be repaid to the person making the deposit.
(Ord. No. 134, § 8-5, 5-11-2000)
Sec. 78-506. - Certification of receipt for required improvements.
A certificate or statement of receipt of the surety by the public authority having jurisdiction shall be inscribed on or attached to the subdivision final plat and executed by the appropriate public authority for the required improvement for which separate surety is provided.
(Ord. No. 134, § 8-6, 5-11-2000)
