Chapter 10 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 26.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Giving massages in places used for lewdness, prostitution, assignation or masturbation for hire, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-17; restriction of adult bookstores and movie houses to certain areas, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3; establishment, maintenance or use of building, structure or place for unlawful sexual purposes, O.C.G.A. § 41-3-1; use of rooms in roadhouses, public dance halls, etc., for immoral purposes, O.C.G.A. § 43-21-61.

Sec. 10-26. - Provisions saved from repeal.
Ordinance No. 68, adopted September 18, 1992, on the subject of adult entertainment, is not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect pending a revision of the subject matter by the county.
Sec. 10-27. - Sexually explicit entertainment in establishments licensed to dispense alcoholic beverages.
(a)
Prohibitions. The following types of entertainment, attire, and conduct are prohibited upon any premises licensed to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic beverages:
(1)
The employment or use of any person, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing so as to expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the male or female pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva or genitals.
(2)
Live entertainment where any person appears in the manner described in subsection (1) of this section or where such person(s) perform(s) acts of or acts which simulate any of the following:
a.
Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual act that is prohibited by law.
b.
The touching, caressing, or fondling of the breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals.
c.
The displaying of the male or female pubic hair, anus, vulva, or genitals.
(3)
The holding, promotion, sponsoring or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night, event, or any other activity where patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged in the activities described in subsections (1) and (2) above; provided; however, that nothing contained in this section shall apply to the premises of any mainstream performance house, museum or theater which derives less than 20 percent of its gross annual income from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(b)
Penalties. Violation of this section shall be sufficient grounds to revoke or suspend any alcoholic beverage license issued by the board of commissioners and such revocation or suspension shall not preclude and may be in addition to any criminal prosecution for violation of the ordinances and laws of the county, state and United States.
(Ord. No. 159, §§ 1, 2, 12-12-2002)
