ARTICLE IV. - INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1964 Ga. Laws, page 817, which amended the state constitution to establish the Thomaston-Upson County Industrial Development Authority. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. The constitutional amendment creating such development authority was continued in force and effect after July 1, 1987, as part of the state constitution by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3737.
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; Georgia Development Authority Act, O.C.G.A. § 50-10-1 et seq.

Section 1. - Constitutional amendment creating authority.
Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution [Ga. Const. art. VII, § V, ¶ I] is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"Thomaston-Upson County Industrial Development Authority.
"A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Thomaston-Upson County Industrial Development Authority; which shall be deemed to be an instrumentally of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and in that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be interpleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. In the event the name of said Authority shall ever become the subject of change the same may be accomplished by an Act of the General Assembly.
"B.
The said Authority is created for the purpose of expanding and developing industry in the City of Thomaston and Upson County and for improving the general welfare of said city and county.
"C.
The said Authority shall consist of six (6) members, one (1) of whom shall be the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Upson County, Georgia, who shall be a member by virtue of his office, one (1) of whom shall be the Mayor of the City of Thomaston, Georgia, who shall be a member by virtue of his office, two (2) of whom shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Upson County, Georgia, and two (2) of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor and Council of the City of Thomaston, Georgia.
(1)
Initially the Board of Commissioners of Upson County, Georgia, and the Mayor and Council of the City of Thomaston shall each appoint one (1) member for a term of one (1) year, and shall each appoint one (1) member for a term of two (2) years, and thereafter upon the expiration of a member's term shall each appoint their respective successor members for a term of two (2) years. As herein used, the term `year' shall mean calendar year commencing with the month of January and ending with the month of December. All members so appointed shall serve until their terms expire and their successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy on said Authority shall be filled by appointment for the remainder of the term by the governing authority who appointed the previous holder of the vacancy.
(2)
Prior to taking office the members shall subscribe to the following oath which shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the City of Thomaston to-wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will fully and fairly perform the duties as a member of the Thomaston-Upson County Industrial Development Authority, So Help Me God."
(3)
The members of the said Authority shall be entitled to no compensation.
"D.
As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word "Authority" shall mean the "Thomaston-Upson County Industrial Development Authority", created hereby.
(2)
The word `Project' shall be deemed to mean and include the optioning, acquisition (by purchase or otherwise), leasing, construction, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation of land, interests in land, buildings, structures, facilities, or other improvements anywhere within the City of Thomaston or the County of Upson, and the acquisition (by purchase or otherwise), leasing, installation, modification, renovation, rehabilitation, or furnishing of fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, or other property of any nature whatsoever used or useful for the purpose of the maintenance, enhancement, or development of trade, commerce, industry, or employment opportunities in the said City of Thomaston or the County of Upson. Any such project may be for any industrial, commercial, business, trade, office, parking, public, or other use so long as its purpose is either to maintain, enhance, or develop trade, commerce, industry, or employment within the confines of said City of Thomaston or County of Upson.
(3)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, cost of lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation; provided, however, that in no event shall entertainment or promotional expenses be considered a part of the cost of any project.
"E.
Any four (4) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the Authority must be approved by not less than four (4) affirmative votes.
"F.
The powers of the Authority herein created shall include, but not [be] limited to, the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(2)
To contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead or be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, to contract with other political subdivisions and with private persons and corporations.
(3)
To acquire, hold, and dispose of real and personal property, including the stock of other corporations for its corporate purposes.
(4)
To buy, acquire, receive as gifts, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage as well as execute deeds to secure debt to and for land, buildings, and property of all kinds within the County of Upson.
(5)
To enter into contracts for periods of time not in excess of one hundred (100) years.
(6)
To acquire in its own name by purchase on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to be the best advantage of the Authority. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall be in the County of Upson and/or the Mayor and Council of the City of Thomaston, the governing authorities of the County of Upson and the Mayor and Council of the City of Thomaston are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the Authority.
(7)
To maintain, enhance, develop, encourage, or promote trade, commerce, industry, or employment in the City of Thomaston or the County of Upson and to make a long-range plan therefor.
(8)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(9)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects, and leases, and rental and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects, which it erects or acquires.
(10)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate and manage projects and to pay the costs of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds or any other income of the Authority, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(11)
To elect its own officers from the membership of the Authority and to authorize and empower such officers to act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter.
(12)
To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority. To exercise all of the rights, powers and privileges and be subject to the same liabilities as a municipality under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36 et seq.) amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761 et seq. as amended) as amended, and as subsequently amended, with reference to the issuance of such revenue bonds and validation of same insofar as such pertain to the corporate purposes of the Authority.
(13)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds or property pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof.
(14)
To use the rents, profits and proceeds from the projects erected, leased or sold, to provide maintenance for such projects, and to discharge the principal and interest of revenue bonds issued by the Authority.
(15)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute debentures, bonds, notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and other such instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(16)
To do all things within its power to maintain, enhance, develop, promote, or encourage employment opportunities and trade, commerce, and industry in the City of Thomaston or the County of Upson.
(17)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state.
(18)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(19)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts. Upson County, Georgia, and the City of Thomaston, Georgia, are hereby authorized to make such gifts, grants and donations of public monies to the Authority as their respective governing bodies shall from time to time authorize and make.
(20)
To do all things necessary and convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Resolution upon the Authority.
(21)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own by-laws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
"G.
It shall be the duty of the Authority to have all persons handling funds of the Authority fully and adequately bonded for their faithful accounting for such funds.
"H.
The Authority shall not be allowed to create in any manner any debt, liability or operation, against the City of Thomaston, the State of Georgia, nor Upson County.
"I.
The obligations and interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same exemptions from taxation as obligations and interest on the obligations of the Mayor and Council of the City of Thomaston and of Upson County.
The exemptions from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the Authority. The right of any private person or corporation to use or occupy any real estate of the Authority for a period of five years or longer under any lease or other agreement for the purposes of taxation shall be classed as an interest in the real estate and as real property and shall be taxed as real property as now provided by law, or may be taxed as the General Assembly may hereafter provide by general or local law.
"J.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution, shall revert to the City of Thomaston and to Upson County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property.
"K.
The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at the expense of the Authority, by a competent independent auditor, whenever requested by either the Board of Commissioners of Upson County or by the Mayor and Council of the City of Thomaston, but not more often than annually and whenever such audit shall be made the minutes and records of the same shall be filed with the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners of Upson County and with the Clerk of the City of Thomaston and shall be available for public inspection.
"L.
The rights and powers herein conferred upon the Authority are self executing and no enabling act of the General Assembly shall be necessary."
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 2607)
