CODE OF THE CITY OF ROME, GEORGIA
____________
Published in 1992 by Order of the City Commission
____________
Adopted March 22, 1993
Effective March 22, 1993
____________
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF
ROME, GEORGIA
AT THE TIME OF THIS CODIFICATION
____________
George Pullen
Commission Chairman
____________
Napoleon Fielder, Pro Tem
Jim Harrington
Ernie Smith
Bill Fricks
Robert Steinbruegge
George Griffin
Martha Kennedy
Leon "Red" Wade
Commissioners
____________
John Bennett
City Manager
____________
Robert Brinson
City Attorney
____________
Joseph F. Smith
City Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a complete recodification of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of Rome, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 1981 Code, as supplemented, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the city commission. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 1981 Code, as supplemented, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 4 is 4-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections or even whole chapters can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 3-1 and 3-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 3-1.5. New chapters may be included in the same manner. If the new material is to be included between chapters 12 and 13, it will be designated as chapter 12.5. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix.
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
RELATED STATE LAWS RSL:1
RELATED STATE LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE RSLCT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER AND RELATED STATE LAWS INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up-to-date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the appropriate page or pages affected will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised sheets are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Milton E. Lefkoff, Supervising Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Mr. Robert Brinson, City Attorney, Mr. John Bennett, City Manager, Mr. Joe Smith, City Clerk, and Mr. Branson Gayler, former City Clerk, for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
EXPAND
MUNICIPAL CODE CORPORATION
Tallahassee, Florida
  Adopting Ordinance
Ordinance No. 93-3-4
An Ordinance of the City of Rome, Georgia, Adopting and Ordaining a New Code for Rome, Georgia; Establishing the Same; Providing for the Manner of Amending Such Code; Providing When This Ordinance Shall Become Effective; Providing Certain Penalties; Repealing Conflicting Provisions; and For Other Purposes.
Be It Ordained by the Rome City Commission, and it is hereby ordained by authority of the same, as follows:
Section 1. The document entitled "Code of the City of Rome, Georgia," a copy of which accompanies this ordinance and is incorporated herein and made a part hereof, is hereby adopted and is intended to be, and shall be treated and considered as, a new and original comprehensive ordinance.
Section 2. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature of Rome, Georgia, enacted on final passage on or before February 17, 1992, and not in the Code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
Section 3. The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this ordinance; nor shall this repeal affect any zoning ordinance or subdivision regulation of the city; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance of the city promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or to the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city; nor shall this repeal affect any rights or franchise granted by any ordinance of the city to any person, firm or corporation; nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city; nor shall this repeal affect the present annual appropriation of the city, nor shall this repeal affect any ordinance levying or imposing charges, fees or taxes now due or accrued; nor shall this repeal be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4. The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as provisions of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, are intended, and shall be considered, as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Section 5. Any and all additions or amendments to the Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the city commission to make the same a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into the Code so that reference to the "Code of Ordinances, City of Rome, Georgia," shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
Section 6. A copy of the Code shall be kept on file in the office of the secretary of the commission, and preserved in loose-leaf form, or in such other form as the secretary of the commission may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the secretary of the commission or someone authorized by the secretary of the commission to insert in their designated places all amendments and ordinances which indicate the intention of the city commission to make those provisions a part of the Code, when those provisions have been reprinted in page form, and to extract from the Code all provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the city commission. A copy of the Code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine it and shall be considered the official Code of Rome, Georgia.
Section 7. As pages of the Code are replaced because the matter contained on them shall have been repealed, amended, or otherwise shall have been superseded or rendered obsolete or inoperative, the secretary of the commission shall retain copies of the complete Code so superseded, rendered obsolete or otherwise rendered inoperative in a file so that the former provisions of the Code may be readily available and easily found. The purpose of this section is to permit anyone desiring to do so to ascertain the precise status of any section of the Code as of any given date.
Section 8. In case of the amendment of any section of the Code for which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in the general penalty provisions of the Code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section in the same chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed thereby.
Section 9. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the extent of such conflict hereby repealed.
Section 10. This ordinance shall be in force and take effect on March 22, 1993.
Certificate of Secretary
I do hereby certify that the above and foregoing ordinance was duly passed at the regular meeting of the City Commission of Rome, Georgia, March 22, 1993.
Witness my hand and seal of the City of Rome this 23rd day of March, 1993.
EXPAND
/s/ Joseph F. Smith
      Secretary of the Commission
