CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - LEGISLATION
This table shows the location of ordinances in the Charter.
EXPAND
Legislation Date Section Section
in Charter
Ord. No. 18-02 6-26-2018 — 2.10
— 2.21
— 3.11
  Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[1]
AN ACT
To provide for a $10,000.00 homestead exemption from all City of Sky Valley ad valorem taxes for residents of that city; to provide for procedures relative thereto; to provide for effectiveness; to provide for a referendum; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this part is 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 417), page 5113. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Definition.]
For purposes of this Act, the term "homestead" means such term as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40].
Sec. 2. - [Exemption granted; excess value subject to tax.]
Each resident of the City of Sky Valley, Georgia, is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of Sky Valley ad valorem taxes in the amount of $25,000.00. The value of the homestead in excess of the exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 943), page 6111, § 1)
Sec. 3. - [Administration.]
The governing authority of the City of Sky Valley may by ordinance provide the procedures and requirements necessary for the proper administration of this exemption.
Sec. 4. - [Applicability to other taxes.]
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect any county school taxes, state taxes, or county taxes for county purposes.
Sec. 5. - [Applicable after December 31, 1992.]
The $25,000.00 homestead exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1992.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 943), page 6111, § 2)
Sec. 6. - [Referendum; election; voting; certification of results.]
Unless prohibited by the Federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, the election superintendent of the City of Sky Valley shall call and conduct an election as provided in this section for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of the City of Sky Valley for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall conduct that election on December 1, 1987, and shall issue the call therefor not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to that date. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Rabun County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
"( ) YES
( ) NO
Shall the Act be approved which provides a $10,000.00 homestead exemption from all of City of Sky Valley ad valorem taxes for residents of that city?"
All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, it shall become of full force and effect immediately. If the Act is not so approved or if the election is not conducted as provided in this section, the remaining sections of this Act shall not become effective and this Act shall be automatically repealed on the first day of January immediately following that election date.
The expense of such election shall be borne by the City of Sky Valley. It shall be the superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
Sec. 7. - [Repeal of conflicting laws.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
