ARTICLE 3. - DEFINITIONS

Section 301. - Generally.
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this resolution have their customary dictionary definition. Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular; the word "building" includes the word "structure"; the word "shall" is mandatory. The word "may" is permissive.
Section 302. - Definitions.
Access easement: An easement devoted to vehicular access which affords a principal means of access to abutting property or properties, but which is not necessarily open to the general public and which is not necessarily improved to standards of the county.
Administrative appeal: A request for a review of an administrative officer's interpretation of any provision of this resolution, or an action taken by the administrative officer or the director of public works in the application or enforcement of this resolution.
Administrative officer: The community development director of the county, or his or her authorized representative, including the planning director.
Alley: A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
Block: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets.
County: White County, Georgia.
County attorney: The attorney of the county.
Comprehensive plan: Those coordinated plans or portions thereof which have been prepared by or for the county board of commissioners for the physical development of the jurisdiction; or any plans that designate plans or programs to encourage the most appropriate use of the land in the interest of public health, safety and welfare.
Cul-de-sac: A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a vehicular turn-around.
Cul-de-sac, temporary: A non-permanent vehicular turn-around located at the termination of a street.
Curb cut: A provision for vehicular ingress and/or egress between property and an abutting street.
Curb radius: The curved edge joining the intersecting street curbs at a street corner, also known as curb-return radius and intersection curb radius.
Curb Radius
Deceleration lane: An added roadway lane, of a specified distance and which may include a taper, as approved by the director of public works (and in the case of a state route, by the state department of transportation), which permits vehicles to slow down and leave the main vehicle stream.
Dedication: The deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general and public use or purpose, reserving to himself no other rights than such as are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property has been devoted.
Dedication plat: A plat that indicates property to be dedicated for public right-of-way or land for public use.
Development: Any man-made change of improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited to, buildings, structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
Development permit: Approval by the administrative officer to proceed with development.
Development plan: Any plan containing substantial information required to be filed by this resolution, which shows how the property to be affected by the development will be changed and improved in a specific manner, including the installation of streets and utilities and the erection of buildings and structures, among other specific requirements.
Director of public works: The director of public works of the county, or his or her authorized representative, which may include a consulting engineering firm approved by the county.
Driveway: The primary access to the public street or subdivision street, which may be shared by up to two residential structures, and which lies wholly on the lot or lots of the structures that utilize it.
Easement: A non-possessory interest in land; a grant by a property owner for the use by the public, a corporation or persons, of a portion of land for a specified purpose or purposes.
Escrow account: A type of subdivision improvement guarantee where the subdivider deposits either cash, a note, a bond, or some other instrument readily convertible to cash for specific face value specified by the director of public works to cover the costs of required improvements.
Home owners association: An organization formed for the maintenance and operation of the common areas of a development, where membership in the association is automatic with the purchase of a dwelling unit or lot within the development, with the ability to legally assess each owner of a dwelling unit or lot and which has authority to place a lien against all dwelling units and lots within the development.
Intra-family land transfer: Conveyance by warranty or quit claim deed with consideration recited in the deed as "love and affection," where the grantor and grantee are related as: parent and child; brother and brother, sister and sister and/or brother and sister; grandparent and grandchild; or aunt/uncle and niece/nephew. The purpose of the conveyance is not to subdivide property for sale or resale to persons not listed in this definition or to otherwise circumvent the provisions of this resolution, and the applicant so states by sworn verification.
Land-disturbing activity: Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state water or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land, not including agricultural practices exempt from the county's soil erosion and sedimentation control regulations.
Letter of credit: A type of subdivision improvement guarantee whereby a subdivider secures an instrument from a bank or other institution or from a person with resources sufficient to cover the cost of improvements required by the county. The instrument pledges the creditor to pay the cost of improvements in case of default by the subdivider.
Lot: A portion or parcel of land intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both, intended to be devoted to a common use or occupied by a building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, and having principal frontage on a public street or an approved private street. In determining the area and dimension of a lot, no part of the right-of-way may be included.
Lot of record: A parcel of land within the county which was legally platted and recorded in the clerk of superior court of the county's plat and deed records prior to adoption of subdivision regulations in the county or which was lawfully subdivided in accordance with subdivision regulations of the county prior to or after the effective date of this resolution.
Lot area: The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, exclusive of public street rights-of-way or private road or access easements, where they exist.
Lot, corner: A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot depth: The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot, double frontage: A lot other than a corner lot which has frontage upon two or more streets that do not intersect at a point abutting the property.
Lot, flag: A tract or lot of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a public street or where existing, a private street, is less than the required minimum width for construction of a building or structure on that lot. Such lots have elongated access from the street and a conventionally proportioned building site at the rear of the lot.
Lot frontage: The width in linear feet of a lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any public street, or where it exists, a private street.
Lot width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the regulatory/required building line.
Metes and bounds: A system of describing and identifying land by distances or measures (metes) and bearings or direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of reference, such as a monument or other marker or the corner of intersecting streets.
Pavement width: The width of a given lane, street, or other road pavement width, measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb, or to the edge of pavement where no curbs are required or exist.
Performance bond: A type of subdivision improvement guarantee in the form of a bond, secured by the subdivider from a bonding company, in an amount specified by the director of public works to cover the costs of required improvements, and payable to the county. The county may call in the performance bond in the event the subdivider defaults on required improvements.
Plat, final: A finished drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and engineering information, certification, and all other elements and requirements set forth in this resolution and O.C.G.A. ยง 15-6-7, prepared for filing for record with the clerk of the county superior court.
Plat, preliminary: A drawing which shows the proposed layout of a subdivision in sufficient detail to convey to the planning commission or others the concept and workability of a subdivision, but not complete in form or detail required for recording.
Private shared roadway: A paved or gravel roadway that may serve not more than nine lots or dwellings units, abuts no more than nine lots or dwelling units, and does not connect thoroughfares. Private shared roadways will not be accepted by the county for maintenance.
Professional engineer: An engineer duly registered or otherwise authorized by the state to practice in the field of civil engineering.
Protective covenants: Contracts made between private parties as to the manner in which land may be used, with the view toward protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Registered land surveyor: A surveyor duly registered or otherwise authorized by the state to practice in the field of land surveying.
Reservation: A method of holding land for future public use by showing proposed public areas on a subdivision plat.
Right-of-way, public: That area, distinguished from an easement or private street right-of-way, which is owned in fee-simple title by the county board of commissioners or other government, for the present or future use of roads, streets and highways, together with its drainage facilities and other supporting uses and structures.
Right-of-way, private: That area, distinguished from an access easement or public right-of-way, dedicated to property owners of the subdivision involved or to other individuals, and which affords permanent access to abutting property or properties. A private right-of-way is distinguishable from a public street right-of-way in that maintenance and ownership of the street and accessory improvements is by private individuals or an association rather than the county board of commissioners or another government.
Road, private: An improved street or road which affords a principal means of access to abutting property or properties.
Roadbed: The graded portion of a street with top and side slopes, prepared as a foundation for the pavement structure and shoulder.
Shade tree: A tree in a public place, street right-of-way, or special easement, planted to provide canopy that will obscure the sun and heat from the ground.
Shoulder: The portion of the roadway contiguous with the traveled way for accommodation of stopped vehicles, emergency use, and lateral support of base and surface courses.
Sidewalk: A hard-surfaced pedestrian access area adjacent to or within the right-of-way of a public street or private street.
Street: A public or private thoroughfare which is open to the general public and which affords the principal means of access to abutting property or properties. The term includes "road."
Street, arterial: Unless otherwise defined by the comprehensive plan of the county, a major arterial street is a street connecting two or more towns or communities, connecting two highways of equal or greater capacity, or serving as the primary access to a large land area. A major arterial may also serve a large traffic generator (e.g., an industrial area) and perform a secondary function of providing local access.
Street, class I: a street with the right-of way dedicated to a property owners' association of the subdivision involved or reserved in the name of the developer and which would allow for further street development.
Street, collector: Unless otherwise defined by the comprehensive plan of the county, a collector street is a public street whose function is to collect traffic from neighborhoods and local streets and which connects to another public street of equal of greater classification. A collector also may provide direct access to adjacent properties.
Street, half: A portion of the ultimate width of a road or street where the remaining portion of the road or street shall be provided at a future date.
Street, private: A road or street that has not been accepted for maintenance by the county and that is not owned and maintained by a state, county, or another public entity.
Street, public: A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way, or one maintained by the county board of commissioners, which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
Subdivision: The division of a tract or parcel of land into ten or more lots, building sites, lease lots, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease, legacy, or building development. The term shall include the opening of a new street/road, or a change in existing streets; or divisions of land involving the extension of water, sewer, or gas lines and includes re-subdivision and where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdivision or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition:
1.
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards of the county and no new roads or road location changes are involved.
2.
The division of land into parcels of three acres or more where no new street/road is involved.
Subdivision, minor: The division of a tract or parcel of land into nine or less lots, building sites, lease lots, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease legacy or building development. The term shall include the opening of a new street/road, or a change in existing streets; or divisions of land involving the extension of water, sewer, or gas lines and includes re-subdivision and where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdivision or to the land or area subdivided.
Variance: A minimal relaxation or modification of the strict terms of this resolution as applied to specific property when, because of particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical condition of the property, compliance would result in a particular hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make a profit.
