APPENDIX B - MINOR SUBDIVISIONS[1]
WHITE COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-40
A RESOLUTION TO AMEND THE OFFICIAL CODE OF WHITE COUNTY, GEORGIA, SUBDIVSIONS
WHEREAS, the county board of commissioners wishes to revise a portion of the Official Code of White County as it relates to subdivision of land in the unincorporated areas of White County; and
WHEREAS, the county commissioners and citizens of White County desire the harmonious, orderly and progressive development of land within White County in accordance with and in order to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the County Commissioners of White County and it is hereby resolved by authority of the same that the regulations be revised as follows:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein are the minor subdivision regulations of the county, as adopted by Res. Number 2007-40, adopted December 4, 2007. Amendments to this resolution are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original resolution. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Cross reference— Planning commission, § 2-171 et seq.; buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; subdivisions, app. A.

ARTICLE 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 101. - Short title.
This resolution is known and may be cited as the "Minor Subdivision and Land Development Regulations of White County, Georgia."
Section 102. - Purpose and intent.
Minor subdivisions provide certain advantages that tend to favor their use over the filing of major subdivision applications. Said advantages include a shorter application period and approval process, less public scrutiny, and less rigorous requirements for access to one of the lots in a minor subdivision. Given these advantages, the prospect exists that subdividers may seek to divide a parcel via consecutive and/or contiguous minor subdivisions instead of filing a major subdivision. It is the intent of the board of commissioners to prohibit the practice of "chain" subdivisions where the same landowner subdivides land and then files minor subdivision applications on common contiguous parcels, which collectively total nine or more lots. It is also the intent of the board of commissioners to prohibit minor subdivision adjacent to each other within a five-year time period, in cases where part of an original tract of land is now owned by another person or entity and was transferred or sold to another owner with the apparent intent to circumvent the major subdivision process.
Section 103. - Authority.
This resolution is adopted pursuant to powers vested in counties by the state constitution, home rule powers, and state administrative rules for the adoption and implementation of comprehensive plans and the protection of vital areas of the state.
ARTICLE 2. - REFERENCE TO OTHER REGULATIONS

Section 201. - Soil erosion and sedimentation control.
No land shall be platted and no land shall be developed except in accordance with the soil erosion and sedimentation control resolution of the county, as it now exists or is hereafter adopted or amended, codified as chapter 30, article II of the County Code. Compliance with said soil erosion and sedimentation control resolution of the county shall be coordinated by the applicant and county staff for subdivision or land development approval with the land development and improvement requirements of this resolution.
Section 202. - Access and county road access permit.
No driveway shall hereafter be installed as a part of any development except in compliance with section 14-76, county road access permit, of the County Code, if applicable, or unless consistent with access requirements established in this resolution, as it now exists or as is hereafter adopted or amended. Shared driveways shall have a minimum width of nine feet of pavement or gravel. Paving is required for all shared driveways over 20 percent in grade.
Section 203. - Flood protection.
No land shall be platted and no land shall be developed except in accordance with chapter 30, article IV, flood damage prevention, of the County Code, as it now exists or as is hereafter adopted or amended.
Section 204. - Utility connections.
No connections to public water or sewer systems shall be permitted except in compliance with relevant provisions of the County Code, any specifications adopted by the county water and sewer authority, and/or municipal water or sewer connection specifications (in the case the subdivision or land development served by municipal water and/or sewer) for such connections, as applicable.
Section 205. - Reference to environmental regulations.
All subdivisions and land developments shall comply as required with the environmental regulations of the County Code, including but not limited to resolutions adopting protection measures for wetlands, water supply watersheds, groundwater recharge areas, protected river corridors, mountain protection, and hillside development, as they now exist or as hereafter adopted or amended.
Section 206. - Reference to state and federal land subdivision laws.
The subdivision of land within the county shall comply, as applicable, with the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act (15 U.S.C.A. section 1701 et seq.) and with the Georgia Land Sales Act (O.C.G.A. section 44-3-1 et seq.). All subdivision plats shall also comply with applicable state laws regarding accuracy and content of all such subdivision plats.
ARTICLE 3. - DEFINITIONS
Please refer to county subdivision regulations.
ARTICLE 4. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 401. - Delegation of authority to administrative officer.
The county board of commissioners hereby delegates to the administrative officer the authority to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove preliminary and final plats, lot combination plats, and boundary line adjustments, provided, however, such delegation does not authorize the administrative officer to accept public improvements for the county board of commissioners. The administrative officer is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove development plans. No person shall refuse entry or access to the administrative officer upon request to enter onto property for purposes of inspection, upon the presentation of appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such administrative officer while in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
Section 402. - Delegation of authority to director of public works.
The director of public works is vested with the authority to require and approve, conditionally approve, or deny approval of development applications and subdivision and land development improvements. The director of public works shall require improvement guarantees for public improvements as specified in this resolution. The director of public works is further authorized to promulgate additional technical standards and construction specifications for land development improvements not already specified by this resolution, including but not limited to water systems, sanitary sewer systems, streets, storm drainage systems, utilities, driveways, curb cuts, and parking lots. No person shall refuse entry or access to the director of public works upon request to enter onto property for purposes of inspection, upon the presentation of appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any the director of public works while in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
Section 403. - Jurisdiction.
This resolution shall apply to all unincorporated lands within the county boundaries of the county.
Section 404. - Subdivision of land.
No person shall subdivide land except in conformance with this resolution. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, owner, agent or subdivider, by deed or map, to sell, transfer, agree to sell, offer at public auction, negotiate to sell or subdivide any land until a preliminary plat, if required, and final plat have been approved and final plat recorded in accordance with this resolution. Said restriction applies to lands subdivided for nonresidential as well as residential uses. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from this resolution or from the penalties established herein. The county through its attorney or other designated official may enjoin such transfer of, sale, or agreement by appropriate action.
Section 405. - Development of land.
No person shall disturb or develop land or engage in development except in accordance with this resolution. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, owner, agent, developer or subdivider to disturb or develop any land until a development plan, if required, has been approved by the administrative officer in accordance with this resolution. No person shall begin construction of any improvements on any lot, prior to the approval of a preliminary plat if required by this resolution, nor prior to approval of development plans for said improvements as required by this resolution.
The administrative officer and director of public works shall not authorize or permit the clearance of trees and vegetative materials, except for grubbing, outside approved construction limits.
Section 406. - Building and other permits.
No building permit shall be issued for any lot in any subdivision for which there is no approved and recorded final plat. As a single exception, builders, who are also the developer/sub-divider may be granted permit for one model per subdivision after preliminary plat approval.
Section 407. - Preliminary plat, development plans and development permit required.
No person shall begin development, land-disturbing activity, or construction of any improvements on any lot or land except in compliance with this resolution. No development permit shall be issued for land disturbance or the installation of improvements, prior to the approval of a preliminary plat of such land, if required by this resolution, and the approval of a development permit nor prior to approval by the administrative officer and the director of public works of engineered plans for land disturbance and installation of improvements.
Section 408. - Recording of subdivision plats.
No subdivision plat, nor part thereof, shall be recorded with the clerk of superior court of the county unless such plat has been approved for recording by the administrative officer. The clerk of the superior court of the county shall not record a plat of a subdivision, whether evidenced as a plat or as an attachment to a deed, unless such plat is a final plat approved by the administrative officer and contains the administrative officer's signature thereon.
Section 409. - Exemption from plat approval.
The following types of land subdivision, transfer, and sale are specifically exempted from the plat approval requirements of this resolution; provided, however, that such exemptions shall not apply to land development requirements and improvement requirements of this resolution: Any division of land to heirs through a judicial estate proceeding, or any division of land pursuant to a judicial partition, or any division of land occurring from the foreclosure of a deed of trust; provided, however, that such exemption shall not require the county to issue permits if the resulting lots or parcels fail to meet any applicable resolution provisions regarding lot size, lot width, and other dimensional requirements.
Section 410. - Exemption from plan approval.
The land development plan requirements specified in this resolution shall not apply to any individual lot which was platted in accordance with the requirements of this resolution or which lawfully existed (see definition of lot of record) that is developed or is proposed to be developed for a detached, single-family dwelling or manufactured home. A development permit, and the submission of development plans pursuant to this resolution, shall not be required for detached, single-family dwellings including manufactured homes; provided, however, such development of individual lots for a detached, single-family dwelling or manufactured home shall comply as required with building codes and other resolutions as applicable (see article 2 of this resolution).
ARTICLE 5. - PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PLAT AND PLAN APPROVAL

Section 501. - Pre-application conference.
Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land, or a land development, is proposed to be made, the subdivider or land developer is required to have a pre-development meeting with the administrative officer. The subdivider or land developer may submit sketch plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and its vicinity, and the proposed layout and development of the subdivision or land development, as required by the development guide. This pre-development meeting is intended to permit an early evaluation of the subdivider's or land developer's intentions and coordination with development requirements the county, and to provide the subdivider or land developer with the necessary regulations in order to properly accomplish the proposed project.
Section 502. - Plan review committee.
Prior to submittal of preliminary plat approval of a subdivision shall be reviewed by the plan review committee. This is made of different departments within the county's developmental approval process.
Section 503. - Application for preliminary plat approval.
The purpose of this section is to ensure compliance with the basic design concepts and improvement requirements of subdivisions through the submittal of a preliminary plat. Any subdivision of lots greater than three or involving a new private street shall require the submission of a preliminary plat to the administrative officer for review by the plan review committee.
Applications for preliminary plat approval shall meet the requirements of table 5.1.
TABLE 5.1 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
EXPAND
Requirement Preliminary Plat Development Plans Final Plat
Pre-application review (first step) Required Required
Application form completed Required Required Required
Letter requesting approval with name, address, and phone of applicant Required Required Required
Number of copies of plat/plans 7 Copies 3 Copies 4 Copies
Filing fee Required Required Required
Description of type of water supply and sewerage system and utilities to be provided Required Required Required
Soil test for each lot proposed for on-site septic tank and drainfield Required
Data on existing conditions Required
Hydrological or other engineering study May be required
Written approval from electric utility company regarding installation of service points and street lights Required
Reproducible original Required
As-built drawings of public improvements Required
Subdivision improvement guarantee Required
Plat certificates Required
  Section 504. - Plat and plan specifications.
Preliminary plats, development plans, and final plats shall meet the specifications of Table 5.2.
TABLE 5.2
PLAT AND PLAN SPECIFICATIONS
EXPAND
Information Required Preliminary Plat Development Plans Final Plat
Scale (minimum) 1″=100 feet 1″=100 feet 1″=100 feet
Sheet size (maximum) 24″ ×36″ 24″ ×36″ 18″ ×24″
North arrow and graphic engineering scale Required Required Required
Reference to north point (magnetic, true north, or grid north) Required
Proposed name of subdivision or project and phases, if any Required Required Required
Vicinity map Required Required Required
Total acreage of the property being subdivided or developed Required Required Required
Name, address, and telephone of owner of record Required Required Required
Name, address and telephone of subdivider or land developer Required Required Required
Name, address and telephone of preparer of plat or plans Required Required Required
Date of plat or plan drawing and revision date(s) if any Required Required Required
Exact boundaries of the tract to be subdivided or developed by bearings and distances, tied to one or more benchmarks Required Required Required
Names of owners of record of all abutting land Required Required Required
Municipal, county and land lot lines inside the property or within 500 feet. Required Required Required
Existing buildings and structures on or encroaching on the tract to be subdivided or developed Required Required Required
Existing streets, utilities and easements on and adjacent to the tract Required Required Required
Environmental conditions (streams, wetlands, watershed supply watersheds, groundwater recharge areas, flood hazard areas, river corridor protection boundaries, mountain and hillside protection areas, etc.) Required Required Required
Block boundaries lettered and each lot numbered consecutively counterclockwise without repetition Required Required
Dimensions and acreage of all lots Approximate Approximate Exact
Locations of streets, alleys, lots, open spaces, and any public use reservations and/or common areas Required Required Required
Right-of-way widths and pavement widths for abutting streets and existing and proposed streets within the subdivision or development Required Required
Locations, widths and purposes of easements Required Required Required
Acreage to be dedicated to the public Required
Street names (as proposed) Required Required
Topography as required by this resolution (see footnote 1) Required Required Not Shown
Minimum building setback/yard lines for all lots drawn on plat or plan Required Required Required
Location and description of all monuments Required
Certificate of ownership and dedication Required
Land surveyor's stamp, certificate, signature, including field survey and closure statement Required Required Required
Statement of and reference to private covenants, if any Required
  Footnote 1: Contour intervals ten feet for hilly terrain (slopes greater than ten percent), five feet for rolling terrain (two—ten percent) two feet for flat terrain (slopes less than two percent). Contour lines shall be based on field surveys or photogrammetric methods for aerial photographs. The basis for the topographic contour shall be specified. Topographic data based on geological survey maps which have been adjusted by field survey data may be accepted by the County if it determines that such data will be adequate to evaluate the layout of lots and streets, drainage and other service requirements.
Section 505. - Application for preliminary plan approval.
The administrative officer shall transmit for review and comment a copy of the preliminary plat to the county plan review committee if required.
The subdivider shall submit to the planning department, or its designated representative the following information for review and approval by the planning department, within the procedures established by the department:
a.
Seven copies of the preliminary plan and other documents, as specified.
b.
A preliminary plat fee of $100.00 plus $5.00 per lot.
Section 506. - Duration of preliminary plat approval.
Approval of a preliminary plat shall be valid for a period of one year, during which time a complete application for development plan approval must be submitted. If a completed application for development plan approval is not submitted within two years after preliminary plat approval, said approval shall expire and be null and void.
Section 507. - Amendments to preliminary plat approval.
The administrative officer, in consultation with the director of public works when engineering considerations are involved, is authorized to approve minor amendments to preliminary plats. The application requirements and procedures for amending preliminary plats, unless minor in nature, shall be the same as for preliminary plat applications. The administrative office shall have the discretion to determination the nature of a minor amendment.
Section 508. - Submittal of development plans.
Following approval of the preliminary plat for a land subdivision, or if subdivision is not proposed, upon proposing a land development, the subdivider or land developer shall submit an application for development plan approval per the requirements of table 5.1 for development plans. The development plans shall at minimum include information specified in table 5.2 for development plans. Said plans shall consist of the following:
a.
Utility plans providing information regarding the location, size, length and type of all water, sanitary sewer and storm drainage improvements showing their minor structures, appendages and connections with existing systems, and the approximate location of service lines from the lots to the proposed utility lines.
b.
Street plans, whether for public or private streets, providing information as follows: street profiles and cross sections as required by the director of public works, type of sub-base, type of paving base, type of curb and gutter if required; type of street paving and type of improvements within the street right-of-way outside of the paved area.
c.
Grading plans and soil sedimentation and erosion control plans.
d.
In addition to utility, street, grading and erosion control plans, the administrative officer and/or director of public works may require a hydrological study or other engineering studies as may be necessary, depending upon the scope and extent of the development project.
Section 509. - Review and approval of development plans.
Upon receipt of the completed development plans by the administrative officer, he or she shall transmit for review and comment a copy of the development plan to the county plan review committee if required. The approval for development plan shall be per the requirements of the plan review committee and this resolution.
Section 510. - Issuance of development permit.
Upon approval or conditional approval of a development plan, the administrative officer shall issue a development permit. Issuance of a development permit shall constitute authorization for the applicant to begin land-disturbing activities and the construction of improvements.
Section 511. - Application for final plat approval.
In the case of a subdivision, after approval of a preliminary plat and upon completion of required improvements, the subdivider may then submit an application for final plat approval. Said application shall meet the requirements for final plat applications as specified in table 5.1, the final plat shall meet the specifications for final plats shown in table 5.2., and as required by the county development guide.
Section 512. - Final plat specifications and certificates.
The final plat shall be drawn to comply with the specifications in table 5.2 for final plats. Certificates shall be included on the final plat, as follows:
1.
Final surveyor's certificate: An engineer's or surveyor's certification, directly on the final plat as follows:
"It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property by me or under my supervision; that all Boundary markings shown thereon actual exist or are marked as 'future' and their location, size, type and material are correctly shown; and that all engineering requirements of the Land Subdivision Regulations of White County, Georgia, have been fully complied with.
_______ Registered C.E. No. _____
or
_______ Registered Georgia Land Surveyor No. _____
or
_______ County Surveyor"
2.
An owner's certification, directly on the final plat, as follows:
"Owner's Certificate"
State of Georgia, County of White.
The owner of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed hereto, in person or through a duly authorized agent, certifies under oath that this plat was made from an actual survey, that all State and County taxes or other assessments now due on this land have been paid, and that all State of Georgia statutory and regulatory requirements for water supply and sewage management have been met.
EXPAND
Owner _____ Date _____
Agent _____ Date _____
  Subscribed and sworn to in my presence this _____ day of ___________, 20___.
___________
Notary Public
Commission exp.: _______"
3.
Certificate of approval:
FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
The administrative officer of White County, Georgia, certifies that this plat complies with the Subdivision and Land Development Regulations of White County, Georgia, and that this plat is hereby approved and released for recording purposes.
_______
Administrative Officer, White County
Date: _______
Section 513. - Action on the final plat.
Upon receipt of a complete final plat application, the administrative officer may transmit for review and comment a copy of the plat to applicable review agencies. The administrative officer shall have ten working days to approve or disapprove of the plat. The administrative officer may grant final plat approval if the following conditions, as applicable, are met:
a.
A preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision, if required, has been previously approved by the planning commission.
b.
Where new improvements are involved in the subdivision, development plans have been approved by the plan review committee.
c.
The final plat meets all applicable requirements of this resolution.
d.
A complete final plat application has been submitted, including all supporting materials required by this resolution for final plats.
Final plats and applications that meet the above-referenced conditions shall be considered a ministerial action by the administrative officer. Denial of a final plat shall be permitted only upon specific findings that one or more of the above-referenced conditions have not been met.
If said plat is in conformance with the preliminary plat and is approved by the plan review committee, the signature of the administrative officer shall be placed on the reproducible film copy or original of the plat.
Section 514. - Recording of final plats.
Upon approval and without undue delay, the administrative officer shall have approved final plats recorded in the records of the clerk of the superior court of the county, and a time-stable reproducible film copy or original shall be filed in the office of the administrative officer. Recording fees shall be included in the fee charged for final plats and therefore paid by the county. The clerk of the superior court shall indicate on the filed copy, as well as the time-stable reproducible film copy or original, the book and page number in the the county records where the final plat is recorded. Recordation of a final plat constitutes approval to begin the sale or transfer of subdivision lots.
Section 515. - Lot combinations and boundary line adjustments.
Boundary line adjustments. One or more existing lot lines forming boundaries between conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision, or one or more lot lines between abutting lots may be adjusted through a final plat revision process that requires the approval of the administrative officer and recording of a plat meeting the specifications of a final plat. In the case no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat of the entire lots involved in the boundary line adjustment shall be required to be approved by the administrative officer and recorded. Such plat showing said boundary line adjustment shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision and shall include thereon that the replat is for the purpose of adjusting the lot lines between specific lots.
Lot combinations. An existing lot line forming the boundary between two conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision or a lot line between lots or parcels that have merged, by the developer, to form one building lot may be removed or eliminated through a final plat revision process which conforms to the final plat requirements of this resolution. Where separate parcels or lots of land are proposed to be combined, they shall be submitted to the administrative officer as a final plat for review, approval and recording. In the case where no recorded final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat depicting all lots involved in the lot combination shall be required to be approved by the administrative officer and recorded as a final plat. Such combination plat shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision, if applicable, and shall indicate thereon that the replat is for the purpose of removing the lot lines between specific lots.
ARTICLE 6. - DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR STREETS

Section 601. - Access.
Every subdivision shall be accessed by a public street, or a previously approved access of at least a 30-foot right or way or easement. This may include the extension of previously approved subdivision streets.
If the administrative officer finds that inadequate access exists, the subdivider's remedy is to pursue the proper access to the subdivision by upgrading the access road to the subdivision. This shall require improving the access to current county road standards. In such cases of inadequate access, street or access improvements are required. A preliminary plat for the subdivision shall be required, regardless of the number of lots.
Where existing streets serving the subdivision are inadequate to serve the additional traffic, the administrative officer shall not approve the subdivision unless adequate access provisions are provided by the subdivider.
Section 602. - Lot frontage.
Each lot shall abut upon a public street or an approved subdivision street and at a minimum, have 60 feet of lot frontage. In the case of a lot fronting on and accessed by a cul-de-sac, the minimum lot frontage may be reduced to 35 feet. Double or reverse frontage lots are required to have proper frontage on all sides that could be used as access.
Section 603. - Continuation of existing streets.
Existing streets shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width, when new streets are constructed.
Section 604. - Street names.
Street names shall be reviewed for correct usage and reasonable meanings consistent with the language used and are subject to the approval of the GIS/mapping department.
Section 605. - Street alignment, intersections, and jogs.
Streets shall be aligned to join with planned or existing streets. Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles (90 degrees), but in no case shall such a street intersection be less than 75 degrees. Where street offsets or jogs cannot be avoided, offset "T" intersections shall be separated by a minimum centerline offset of 300 feet.
Section 606. - Development along arterial street or limited access highway.
Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial street or a limited access highway, the administrative officer may require a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way as a marginal access street, from which the lots shall be accessed instead of the arterial street or limited access highway. In such cases, the administrative officer shall require a ten-foot-wide, no-access easement planted to prohibit travel across it.
Section 607. - Alleys.
Alleys may be required at the rear of all lots used for multi-family, commercial or industrial developments. Alleys may be provided in one or two-family residential developments.
Section 608. - Street right-of-way and pavement widths.
Street right-of-way and pavement widths shall at minimum meet the following:
Street Right-of-Way, Pavement, and Improvement Requirements
Smaller rights-of-way and roadways may be approved by the planning commission in mountain and hillside protection areas to reduce the amount of clearing and land disturbance. (Private shared Roadway with one to five lots may be graveled if grade is 12 percent or less.)
EXPAND
Street Type Service Standard Minimum Right-Of-Way Width (Feet) Minimum Pavement/Gravel Width (Feet) Number of Lots Pavement Type
Private shared roadway Rural and residential 30 18 1—5 Gravel/triple surface
Private shared roadway Rural and residential 30 18 pavement 6—9 Triple surface
  PRIVATE SHARED ROADWAY TYPICAL SECTION
PAVED OR GRAVEL ROAD
Roads shall be crowned, or pitched, to promote drainage of surface water from the road into roadside ditches to minimize the detrimental effects of water.
Ditches are essential for proper drainage and shall be designed and provided to handle total volume and velocity of water for the particular road location, as approved by the director of public works.
Section 609. - Turnarounds.
Streets that dead-end shall terminate in a cul-de-sac or other approved turn-around.
EXPAND
Type of Turnaround Required Pavement/Gravel (Feet) Required Right-of-Way (Feet)
Cul-de-sac, no center island 26' radius 35' radius
  Section 610. - Street grades.
Maximum and minimum street grades shall be as follows:
a.
Local streets and dead-end streets and alleys, not in excess of 15 percent.
b.
No street grade shall be less than one percent.
Section 611. - Horizontal curvature.
The minimum radii of centerline curvature shall be as follows:
a.
Secondary streets, 200 feet.
b.
Local streets and dead-end streets and alleys, 100 feet.
Section 612. - Tangents.
Between reverse curves, there shall be a tangent having a length not less than the following:
a.
Minor streets and dead-end streets and alleys, 50 feet.
Section 613. - Vertical alignment.
Vertical alignment shall be such as per specifications of the public works department.
Section 614. - Curb-line radius.
The curb-line radius at street intersections shall be at least 30 feet. Where the angle of street intersection is less than 90 degrees, a longer radius may be required. For commercial and industrial subdivision streets, a minimum 40 foot curb-line radius shall be provided.
Section 615. - Right-of-way clearance.
All trees, brush, stumps, rocks, or other debris shall be cleared from the road bed, including shoulders, or as may be required by the director of public works; provided, however, that the administrative officer may recommend preservation of trees and major rock outcroppings within the right of-way as may be appropriate to preserve the rural character of the subdivision or land development.
Section 616. - Grading of streets.
All streets shall be graded to the lines, grades, and cross-sections as shown on approved the plans.
Section 617. - Street paving and base.
Base and sub-base shall be installed on public and private streets and for driveways connecting to public streets in compliance with specifications of the director of public works.
All boulders, organic material, soft clay, spongy material or similar problematic material shall be removed from the street subgrade and replaced with approved material.
The base course shall consist of graded aggregate of a minimum compacted thickness of six inches compacted to 95 percent and in conformity with the lines, grades and typical cross-sections as shown on the drawings approved by the director of public works. Engineers can submit alternative pavement designs for approval by the director of public works. All base course material shall be deposited and spread by means of spreader boxes, approved mechanical equipment, or from moving vehicles equipped to distribute the material in a uniform layer as approved by the director of public works.
Rolling shall be accomplished with a smooth wheel power roller weighing seven to ten tons, or an equivalent equipment approved by the director of public works. Rolling shall progress gradually from the sides to the center, parallel with the centerline of the street and lapping uniformly each preceding track one half the width of such track, and shall continue until all the surface has been rolled. No base material shall be deposited or shaped when the subgrade is frozen or thawing or during unfavorable weather conditions.
Section 618. - Street signs.
Street signs shall be furnished and installed at all street intersections on the rights-of-way by the developer and shall meet specifications of the director of public works which unless otherwise adopted shall be green "scotchlite" with white legends mounted on ten-foot round posts. Exact locations shall be approved by the director of public works prior to installation. Subdividers shall also be responsible for installing all traffic control signs required by the director of public works, including speed limits signs and stop signs. Alternate or thematic color street signs that follow a specific subdivision theme may be allowed with the approval of the director of public works and 911 Director.
Section 619. - Street right-of-way improvements.
All street rights-of-way outside of the paved portions shall be graded to conform to the approved cross section and shall be soiled and grassed with a material acceptable to the director of public works.
The director of public works may require that drainage facilities be installed to provide a stable subsurface and base for fills and base course construction over wet weather springs, soft spots, and other unstable soils. The director of public works may require the subdivider or land developer to submit a soil analysis and drainage design performed by an engineering firm.
Section 620. - Deceleration lanes.
For subdivisions or land developments accessing state routes, the state department of transportation may require the installation of deceleration lanes.
The director of public works may require the installation of a deceleration lane for a distance of 100 feet and a 50-foot taper from all project entrances serving commercial and industrial subdivisions. For all commercial properties, if an acceleration/ deceleration lane is not required, the subdivider or land developer may be required to construct a wide entrance according specifications of the director of public works.
Section 621. - Improvements to abutting streets.
For subdivisions and land developments that abut and access an abutting public street, the subdivider or land developer shall install road improvements according to standards and specifications of the director of public works along all abutting streets.
When a subdivision or land development uses or proposes to use an unpaved public right-of-way for access, the subdivider or land developer shall dedicate right-of-way and improve that right-of-way to right-of-way and pavement widths consistent with county street design standards.
Section 622. - Residential driveways.
All entrances or exits of any driveway from or to any state or federal highway shall be subject to the approval of the state department of transportation.
Section 623. - Nonresidential driveways.
All entrances or exits of any driveway from or to any state or federal highway shall be subject to the approval of the state department of transportation.
ARTICLE 7. - PRIVATE STREETS

Section 701. - Private streets permitted.
Private streets are permitted within subdivisions, subject to the requirements of this article. Applications for approval of private streets shall be considered by the planning commission. Following a recommendation by the administrative officer and director of public works, the planning commission shall consider the application and may impose conditions on the approval of private streets to ensure various public purposes and to mitigate potential problems with private streets. No final plat involving a private street shall be approved unless said final plat conforms to the requirements of this article.
Section 702. - Engineering plans required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct a new private street or alter an existing private street or to cause the same to be done without first obtaining approval of development plans and securing a development permit from the administrative officer and approval by the director of public works in accordance with the requirements of this resolution.
Section 703. - Standards for private streets.
All private streets shall be constructed to standards as specified in article 6 of this resolution.
Section 704. - Street names and signs.
Private streets shall be named, subject to the approval of the administrative officer and 911 coordinator. The subdivider of land involving a private street shall install street signs with content containing the street name as approved by the director of public works. The sign signifying the private street may be required by the director of public works to be a different color than that of street signs provided for public streets, or designated "private" in order to distinguish maintenance responsibilities in the field.
Section 705. - Rights-of-ways.
Rights-of-way for private streets shall be designated on final plats as access for purpose of public safety access and utility rights-of-ways, along with the name of said private street. Rights-of-way for private streets shall not be included in any calculation of minimum lot size established by this resolution or any other county resolution. In the cases of private streets, the right-of-way for the private street shall be drawn as its own discrete parcel to be dedicated to a private homeowners association (i.e., not shown to be a part of any lot).
Section 706. - Maintenance.
The county shall not maintain, repair, resurface, rebuild, or otherwise improve streets, signs, drainage improvements or any other appurtenances within rights-of-ways established for private streets. A private maintenance agreement shall be required to be included in the protective covenants and recorded with the county clerk of the superior court shall be required for any private street and other improvements within rights-of-ways established for private streets.
ARTICLE 8. - DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR BLOCKS AND LOTS

Section 801. - Block lengths and widths.
Intersecting streets shall be provided at such intervals so as to provide adequate cross traffic and connectivity. Blocks in residential subdivisions should not exceed 1,800 feet nor be less than 600 feet in length, except where topography or other conditions justify a departure from these standards. In blocks longer than 800 feet, pedestrian ways and/or easements through the block may be required by the administrative officer near the center of blocks.
The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and deliveries.
Section 802. - Lot width and size.
Residential lots shall have a minimum depth of 100 feet and minimum width of 100 feet each.
The minimum lot area for a residential lot shall be:
a.
43,560 square feet.
Provided, however, that where flood plain, water course, wetland, soil, slope and other conditions require it, and as further required by the county health department or any other applicable resolution of the county. No more than one single-family dwelling per tract with density of one dwelling per acre with planning department approval. Single-family exceptions may be allowed for intra-family and agricultural dwellings with the approval of the planning department. Residential corner lots shall have adequate width to meet building setback requirements from both abutting streets. Residential corner lots shall have adequate width to meet building setback requirements from both abutting streets.
Commercial and industrial or other nonresidential lots shall be adequate to provide service areas and off-street parking suitable to use intended. The minimum lot size for such lots shall be 43,560 square feet without public sewer, or a minimum of 21,780 square feet with public sewer and public water, or greater where soil, slope or other conditions require it, and as further required by the health department. Where individual septic tanks are used, the county health department shall approve minimum lot sizes to conform to health standards of the state.
Each lot shall contain an adequate building site not subject to flooding and outside the limits of any existing easements or required yards/building setback lines.
(Res. No. 2017-02, 1-9-17)
Section 803. - Lot lines.
All lot lines shall be perpendicular or radial to street lines, unless not practicable because of topographic or other features.
Section 804. - Building lines.
A building line shall be established on all lots. There shall be building setback lines for principal buildings of 15 feet from all property lines.
Section 805. - Flag lots.
Intent. Flag lots, as defined in this resolution, are strongly discouraged. However, subdivisions designed with one or more flag lots may be approved
Denial if reasonable alternative exists. The administrative officer shall have due cause to deny any plat that proposes any flag lot, when a reasonable alternative to such lot pattern is possible.
a.
Panhandle (flag pole) length and width restriction. If permitted, no flag lot shall be allowed to be platted that has a "panhandle" portion of less than the required frontage for that lot. (i.e., portion that does not meet the required lot width) and that is more than 400 feet in length.
Section 806. - Lot remnants not permitted.
All remnants of lots below any minimum lot size which may be required, left over after subdividing of a larger tract, must be added to adjacent lots, rather than allowed to remain as unusable parcels. The administrative officer may permit a lot remnant for a specific purpose such as a detention pond, provided that access and design is appropriate and the lot remnant is restricted to specific non-building use.
Section 807. - Monuments.
For all subdivisions, a state-registered land surveyor shall install permanent survey monuments at all property corners and land lot lines, prior to final plat approval. Lot corners shall be marked with metal rods not less than one-half inch in diameter and 18 inches in length and driven so as to be stabilized in the ground. Permanent survey monuments shall also be installed in accordance with the most recent edition of section 180-7-.05, monument of the Rules of State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors and the Georgia Plat Act (O.C.G.A. 15-6-67).
ARTICLE 9. - STORM DRAINAGE AND UTILITIES
Please refer to county subdivision regulations.
ARTICLE 10. - ADMINISTRATIVE AND LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Section 1001. - Administration and interpretation.
The administrative officer shall administer and interpret the provisions of this resolution.
Section 1002. - Fees.
The fees for various applications required by this resolution shall be as follows:
Preliminary plat: $100.00 plus $5.00 per lot.
Final plat: $100.00 plus $5.00 per lot, plus $8.00 per page recorded.
Variance: $100.00.
Administrative appeal: $100.00.
Section 1003. - Additional specifications.
The director of public works is hereby authorized to prepare and recommend standard drawings and constructions specifications for private and public improvements not specified in this resolution. Upon their adoption by the county board of commissioners, they shall become mandatory.
Section 1004. - Variances.
Please refer to White County Municipal Code, appendix A, section 1204.
Section 1005. - Inspection.
Please refer to White County Municipal Code, appendix A, section 1206.
Section 1006. - Enforcement.
Please refer to White County Municipal Code, appendix A, section 1205.
Section 1007. - Intra-family land transfer.
Division means the splitting up of property into five or less parcels, which does not involve the construction of a public street to serve the parcels created.
Family member means a child, grandchild, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, niece or nephew.
Intra-family land transfer means the division and conveyance of the ownership of land to a "family member" the purpose of which is not to sell or resell to persons not defined as a family member or to circumvent the provisions of this appendix and the applicant so states by sworn affidavit.
Section 1008. - Amendment.
This resolution may be amended. Before enacting such amendment, the planning commission shall provide a recommendation on the proposed amendment. The county board of commissioners shall hold a public hearing thereon, notice of which shall be published at least 15 days prior to such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
Section 1009. - Miscellaneous provisions.
Please refer to White County Municipal Code, appendix A, section 1209.
