ARTICLE 2. - REFERENCE TO OTHER REGULATIONS

Section 201. - Soil erosion and sedimentation control.
No land shall be platted and no land shall be developed except in accordance with the soil erosion and sedimentation control resolution of the county, as it now exists or is hereafter adopted or amended, codified as chapter 30, article II of the White County Code. Compliance with said soil erosion and sedimentation control resolution of the county shall be coordinated by the applicant and county staff for subdivision or land development approval with the land development and improvement requirements of this resolution.
Section 202. - Access and county road access permit.
No driveway shall hereafter be installed as a part of any development except in compliance with section 14-78, county road access permit, of the White County Code, if applicable, or unless consistent with access requirements established in this resolution, as it now exists or as is hereafter adopted or amended. Shared driveways shall have a minimum width of nine feet of pavement or gravel. Paving is required for all shared driveways over 20 percent in grade.
Section 203. - Flood protection.
No land shall be platted and no land shall be developed except in accordance with chapter 30, article IV, flood damage prevention, of the White County Code, as it now exists or as is hereafter adopted or amended.
Section 204. - Utility connections.
No connections to public water or sewer systems shall be permitted except in compliance with relevant provisions of the White County Code, any specifications adopted by the White County Water and sewer authority, and/or municipal water or sewer connection specifications (in the case the subdivision or land development served by municipal water and/or sewer) for such connections, as applicable.
Section 205. - Reference to environmental regulations.
All subdivisions and land developments shall comply as required with the environmental regulations of the White County Code, including but not limited to resolutions adopting protection measures for wetlands, water supply watersheds, groundwater recharge areas, protected river corridors, mountain protection, and hillside development, as they now exist or as hereafter adopted or amended.
Section 206. - Reference to state and federal land subdivision laws.
The subdivision of land within the county shall comply, as applicable, with the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act (15 U.S.C.A. Section 1701 et seq.) and with the Georgia Land Sales Act (O.C.G.A. Section 44-3-1 et seq.). All subdivision plats shall also comply with applicable state laws regarding accuracy and content of all such subdivision plats.
